mr. chairman, please! we have discussed many times the problems of the demographic collapse threatening europe and the social problems it will cause. at the same time, vat rates on children's products in the european union countries are the basic rates, i.e. the highest. in poland, before accession to the union, these products were subject to a lower, preferential rate. the accession to the union, in addition to other legal consequences, unfortunately also resulted in an increase in the vat rate on children's products, which was contrary to the pro-family policy adopted by poland. i would ask the european commission to consider changing the rules in this area for the benefit of all the countries of the union, and above all for the benefit of the poorest families raising children, which will make it easier for us all to implement the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, please! i rise today as a member of the civil liberties committee, but also as a citizen of a country that has been forced to fight for its independence and freedom on many occasions. i would like to draw the attention of this house to the lack of respect for human rights, the lack of freedom of expression, which is taking place in the people's republic of china and which affects the people of tibet. the latest example of the regime's policy towards tibet is the pacification of monks who are celebrating the award of the congressional gold medal to the dalai lama (who is also a nobel prize winner), who has been fighting for human rights for decades. we cannot allow tibet or any other nation in the 21st century to cease to exist because of dictatorship, tyranny and a sadistic desire for political domination. we should say in this chamber, "enough" of the destruction of a culture that is considered the most peaceful in the world. as free people and as people who believe in the values on which the european union is built, we should do everything we can to ensure that the tibetan people also know the meaning of the word 'freedom'.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission granted poland an emission allowance of only 208 million tonnes of carbon dioxide for the years 2008-2012, almost 30% less than the polish government had requested. although poland has appealed the commission's decision to the court of justice, unfortunately the dispute will be settled in the near future, so the polish economy has to adapt to such a limited limit. this situation reduces production in plants such as cement plants, steel mills, and above all, electricity prices increase significantly. it is expected to fall by about 10% this year and by 20% in four years, as emissions reductions have also affected the electricity generation industry to a significant extent. such a limitation of emissions, an unfair distribution of the burden of emissions, will not only delay the development of newly admitted countries to the union, such as poland, but will also place a significant burden on the cost of living of their citizens. i wanted to protest against this in a very strong way.
in september 2006, the european parliament called for an end to the trade in seal products. the declaration was supported by a record number of meps. however, despite such strong support and the subsequent adoption by the european parliament of the so-called 'animal welfare action plan' which calls for a total ban on the trade in seal products within the european union, no positive effects are being seen. the prohibitions are ineffective and have not stopped the trade in seal fur in the union, which remains one of the largest markets. for commercial purposes, young seals, a few days older than the age of the ban, are hunted and sold legally. they hunt without any respect for the basic rules, skinning them alive, and the rest of the animals' bodies are thrown into the water. this slaughter will continue until the european commission imposes a total ban on the marketing of all seal products.
mr. chairman, please! we know very well that the automotive industry in the european union is one of the most important sectors of its economy, producing 19 million vehicles a year and - which is particularly important - providing 2.3 million jobs and indirectly 10 million in ancillary sectors. it should be stressed that not only the quantity but perhaps above all the quality of jobs testifies to the key role that this industry plays in the economic life of the european union. the best way to illustrate this success is through the eur 35 billion annual trade surplus and high level of innovation. despite these optimistic figures, the european automotive industry faces very serious challenges. i fully support the final report of the cars 21 high level group and the european commission's communication on this subject, but i would like to call for further action to create a truly single internal market for cars. the tax regimes for cars continue to differ from one member state to another, either in the form of excise duties or other registration charges, thus increasing inequalities among consumers. i welcomed the compromise reached in the european parliament on the 'rectification clause', which is undoubtedly a step towards harmonising the rules in this area and contributing to better application of the law. the automotive sector should be freed from unnecessary bureaucratic burdens, in particular in avoiding duplication of existing international rules. in line with the principles of better law, proper impact assessment, the principle of cost-benefit optimisation should always be taken into account in the creation of a competitive legal environment for the automotive industry. given the continuous technological development in this sector, i support the commission's efforts to introduce a review and review mechanism so that the legislation does not hamper the continuous technological progress made. the european automotive industry is one of the most competitive in the world, but its position may be jeopardised by unfair commercial practices by competitors and by non-compliance with intellectual property rights. i would like to call on the commission to take more consistent and effective action to ensure that intellectual property rights are respected and enforced in all regions of the world, with particular reference to china. the importance of a strategic partnership with china should not be under discussion, but effective protection of european intellectual property should be a sine qua non.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteur, but the report is controversial. we're going to vote against it, and here's why. it is an attempt to unify the tax system in the union and thus to impose tax arrangements on the member states. this would also favour multinational companies over small and medium-sized enterprises, and would force many national companies to set up branches and representative offices in other countries, not for economic reasons but to benefit from the rules applicable to multinational companies. i will just remind you that for many years, multinational companies have been taking advantage of the unqualified and corrupt officials in post-communist countries to use accounting and taxation machinations to declare losses and not pay taxes. this was done with the union's approval. the new regulation would allow the proceedings to continue in the rule of law. i am all the more surprised that these harmful effects would also be felt in the countries of the old union, where the tax rates would be reduced. in my view, the first thing to do is to tackle the problem of accounting and tax fraud by multinational companies in the union and to improve the preparation of the tax administration, particularly in the new member states, which would help prevent and detect tax fraud.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in the debate on the tax rules relating to the deduction of losses arising in cross-border situations, i would like to draw attention to the following points. first, direct taxes such as corporation tax are outside the remit of the european commission and therefore should not, in principle, be of interest to it. secondly, i am surprised that the report contains statements expressing disapproval of the reductions in corporate tax rates in some member states, especially the new ones. thirdly, i am also concerned about the call on the commission to speed up the work on the introduction of a uniform corporate tax base in the european union. the structure of this tax, the rates, the establishment of the tax base are one of the few instruments available to the governments of the member states which can be used to accelerate the economic development of the less developed countries. fourthly, if we look at the commission's proposals on corporate tax, it seems that it wants all the member states to develop at a rate of no more than 2% of gdp growth per year, but then how will the new member states catch up with the most developed countries after 20 or 30 years?
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2008.
the next item is the report by mr ulrich stockmann, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on airport charges (com (2006) 0820 c6-0056/2007 2007/0013 (cod)) (a6-0497/2007).
mr. chairman, please! one of the european union's tasks is to ensure that the community market develops in accordance with the principles of fair competition. the airport charges directive is intended to avoid possible abuses by ports with a dominant position in the union or in individual countries and has been proposed because not all of them apply transparent procedures for charging airport charges. the new rules are to cover 67 major airports. i think it is worth remembering that the development of airports, and in particular smaller airports, is of great importance in promoting regional development in europe, having a significant impact on the economic disparities between the various regions in the union. this is particularly the case in the countries of central and eastern europe. my country, poland, is one of the leaders in air transport. the polish aviation market grew by 13% in the past year. air transport in poland is one of the fastest growing in the world. however, the growth in air traffic is associated with large investments. it is therefore important to allow smaller airports to include part of the costs of long-term infrastructure development projects in airport charges, which will significantly facilitate the financing of their development.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my appreciation to both the rapporteur, mr stockmann, and to the commission for the work they have done. the competitiveness of the european economy requires a transparent and rational approach to airport charges. they are a significant contributor to the operating costs of carriers. this is not just a matter for port owners, but also for airlines and therefore for passengers. this applies to both national and even continental airports and regional airports. here the question of size comes up: is the proposed revised criterion of 5 million passengers or 15% of all passengers in a country reasonable? under no circumstances should these regulations affect passengers. the services provided by airports must meet the criteria of safety, timeliness of take-offs and landings and of transfers. and we see today how diverse the culture of punctuality is in our airports. some passengers are treated as intruders. so, hopefully, there will be some improvement and some disability for the passenger.
mr stockmann, as rapporteur, you will have the opportunity to speak at the end of the debate. do you wish to speak now or wait until the end?
all right, that is clear, but we have to finish our list. we shall therefore move on to the next speaker and then continue with the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure.
madam president! the draft resolution stresses the social responsibility of enterprises for occupational safety and health, with particular attention to the aspect of fair competition. it recognises the particular importance of dialogue between the social partners and, in particular, the role of trade unions in improving safety in the workplace. points to the need to give special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises in the strategy for improving osh and to the need for continuous training of workers. most accidents involve people who are just starting work, who have no experience, and who have little time to rest after work. it contains important comments on the rehabilitation and integration into the work environment of persons returning to work after an accident, as well as the requirement of non-discrimination in access to employment for persons with cancer. i congratulate the rapporteur.
madam president! we have been debating the european labour market strategy in this house for years. there are many opinions among us about where this should go. some people are in favour of the idea of a deep harmonisation of labour law, while others argue that the natural diversity of european labour markets is good for the eu economy. as you know, my views on this matter are closer to the latter, with one essential exception. the exception is the regulations on health and safety at work. i believe that this is where the community institutions are both justified and necessary. the recent enlargements of the community have led to an even greater diversity in working conditions. this variation is both territorial and environmental, as more occupational accidents and diseases occur in groups such as migrants, young workers and older workers, regardless of the country. i don't mean that these are groups that are being deliberately and consciously discriminated against. rather, it is the result of inadequate training and lack of experience. the need for adequate safety and hygiene conditions for these workers is all the greater. i would also like to stress that, regardless of the member state, the greatest problem with meeting the highest standards of safety at work is seen in sectors such as construction, agriculture and transport. this is understandable given the specific nature of the work carried out there, but it is also the fact that these industries are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises whose financial, organisational and legal capabilities do not make it easier to adapt to the high requirements of the bse. these are the businesses that need support from the european union, from the eu institutions and from the governments of the member states, and this needs to be done as a matter of urgency. punishment and increased surveillance are not the only methods here. these instruments, which are obviously necessary, should be accompanied by investment in the education of both workers and employers and financial support for better and safer workplace equipment.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the freedom to move, work and live within the union is one of the fundamental achievements of our citizens. their social protection is therefore one of the most important issues, especially now that the phenomenon of emigration, which has been unprecedented in europe in recent years, has been strongly supported by all the eu institutions. i understand that in view of the introduction of the amended regulation on social security systems - currently in force since 1971 - we are only trying to modify and adapt as necessary to the changes introduced in certain countries. however, i think we have not taken the opportunity to amend the regulation in the direction proposed in the new regulation. although the draft new regulation has been adopted for almost four years, it is not yet in force and the old one is already over 37 years old. it may be better to improve what already exists than to hope for new ones, because time is running out and people are impatient.
mr. chairman, please! i support mr öra's report. it is good that the union is coordinating social security systems, because in the enlarged union millions of people work outside their own countries. the most numerous are my countrymen, the poles, of whom over 2 million are now working in the various member states. on the one hand, we are happy about the possibility of workers moving, but on the other hand we are concerned about the increasingly frequent cases of ill-treatment of foreign workers. in several countries, cases of criminal treatment of polish workers, forced slave labor, were revealed. polish workers are victims of ethnic assault. this has happened in the uk and recently in germany polish media have reported cases of brutal attacks on poles in the german town of löknitz in mecklenburg. these are dangerous events and we expect all member states to do more to protect foreign workers from exploitation and harassment.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good job, which certainly requires a lot of patience, but which is also very satisfying. this report is without doubt one of the most controversial and difficult to compromise projects. the aim is to approximate the various rules in the various countries of the union, which are in fact quite different and which are largely the responsibility of the member states. harmonization in this sector is simply impossible. we can only try to bring about partial convergence of requirements, and this too, as has been shown in recent months, is a clear problem. i agree with the rapporteur that in such a difficult report the member states should be given as much leeway as possible. it seems to be the only sensible solution for such a difficult and burdensome report to be accepted by all parties involved. it seems that the text has been simplified in the current version. however, the work on it shows a lack of impact analysis that would certainly improve its quality. this project, in my overall assessment, seems satisfactory. of course, this is far from ideal, but it is adapted to the current situation in the member states. the draft law removes the financial and administrative burden on consumers and introduces, in my view, important provisions to protect them and facilitate the taking of loans. one such very relevant proposal is the introduction of a single pre-contractual form, which makes it much easier for consumers to compare offers.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? we are talking about directive 95. i had the honour of reporting her amendment to the house of lords last september. the point is that the directive contains a lot of technical details concerning vehicles, loads and roads. in 1996, a new comitology procedure, the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, was introduced. our committee proposes that, under the conditions of implementation of the amended directive 95, this new regulatory procedure with scrutiny be applied within the framework of the european commission's powers. the european parliament's credibility will not be affected. we'll avoid the excessive detail of our control function. the commission unanimously adopted the draft regulation. i'm asking the house to vote unanimously on this, too.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the fundamental rights agency was established on the basis of the monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia. this change could have been a sign of improvement. the vienna center was known for its unreliability and the ease with which it abused accusations of racism or anti-semitism - this was the case in 2001 and 2005 for example with radio maria, the republican league and my country, poland. the new institution, if it follows the rapporteur's lead, will quickly repeat the mistakes of the old. the alleged overreach, flexibility and so-called proactive action - these are quotes directly from the justification of this report - is nothing more than the permission of the agency to act uncontrolled, under the dictates of extreme ideologies, outside international law. all this would be meaningless, because it is not only european money that is thrown into the mud, but a human rights system that is deprived of the framework of international law, left to professional anti-racists, loses the most important thing it has - credibility.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to add one point to my congratulations to the rapporteur, mr michael cashman, namely that we had a debate in the libe committee on whether or not the fundamental rights agency would duplicate the work of the council of europe. we have concluded that it is not, but i have the impression that we will be jealous of the council of europe, that it has a substance that allows the application of a material legal system. it seems to me that the fundamental rights agency, despite these conditions and the powers it has, should be firmly based on the charter of fundamental rights. this should be a clear message to the commission that it is also the guardian of the charter of fundamental rights, also for those citizens, those member states which have not fully accepted the charter of fundamental rights. i think this is very important and i think the fundamental rights agency should also be working in this direction with our help, with the help of the european parliament.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a member who has been working for several years to defend the rights of children, i welcome the report by mrs angelilli on the creation of a unified union strategy for the rights of the child. the violation of children's rights, violence against them, trafficking in children for illegal adoption, prostitution, illegal work or begging on the streets remains a major problem for the union. any strategy on children's rights should be based on the values and principles enshrined in the un convention, in particular on protection against all forms of discrimination. every child must be guaranteed the right to maintain constant and direct contact with both parents, as well as the right to be brought up in the culture of both parents and the right to learn the language of both parents. these rights are frequently violated by the german jugendamt in relation to children whose parents are foreigners. in the event of a divorce, the jugendamt shall take all necessary measures to deprive the non-german parent of parental rights. children are denied the right to learn the language of the other parent, and are forbidden to speak in languages other than german during scheduled visits. official papers say bilingualism is bad for children. the committee on petitions alone has more than 250 complaints against the activities of the office. although the european commission last year ruled that the activities of the german jugendamt breached article 12 of the ec treaty, which prohibits all discrimination, the german state has further increased its discriminatory practices against foreign children, and this is an obvious scandal. i hope that this report, which is the voice of the european parliament, will help to put an end to the discrimination in this respect.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to congratulate mrs angelilli on an excellent report on a subject which i believe is crucial for the future of the european union. most of the points in this report deserve support, of course, but i have a few doubts. first, the principle of equality between girls and boys is invoked, which can be understood as an affirmation of their identity, whereas every parent knows that girls and boys are different and require a different approach to education in order to realize the principle of their equal dignity. secondly, from the point of view of children's rights, the increase in the number of alternative family structures mentioned in the report is a threat that should be prevented. that threat is not mentioned in the report. and thirdly, since paragraph 167 calls for the provision of sex education to children and young people, paragraphs 163 and 164 on the right to sexual and reproductive health are superfluous, unless these terms conceal the right to abortion. here we see that the rights of the born cannot be separated from the rights of the unborn, although they are only embryos at first, they inevitably become children, and whoever has doubts, let him remember that we were all embryos once.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the problem raised in paragraph 118 of the report, which concerns restrictions on freedom of contact with children in broken multinational families. especially striking cases are in germany, as a result of the work of an institution called jugendamt. as a result, non-german parents are deprived of the opportunity to communicate with their children in their own language and, in extreme cases, even lose parental rights. the registers of the jugendamt date from 1939, i repeat, from 1939, and in almost unchanged form they function within the framework of the law in force. this institution acts in the name of what is called the best interests of the child, which is a concept that has not been defined anywhere, which means that it can be interpreted freely. the jugendamts favour parents of german origin in their proceedings. i am also concerned that they are not subject to any external control, and i therefore ask the european commission to prepare a proposal for a regulation to avoid any form of discrimination by the authorities of the member states, as is currently the case in germany.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to agree fully with the vote of mrs foltyn-kubicka. the protection of children's rights is receiving increasing attention from european union legislators. however, an increasing number of areas of eu competence have a direct impact on children's rights. i therefore welcome the commission's communication announcing the introduction of a strategy for the protection of children's rights. the desire to give priority to this issue in the european union's action to recognise children as full legal entities deserves full support. however, the careful title of the communication, 'in the direction of a strategy' rather than 'strategy', suggests that it will be followed up by public consultations to help identify the main priorities for future union action. the european union has not yet created any specific legal framework for children's rights. i regret that if the constitutional treaty had been ratified, it would have introduced a more appropriate legal framework in article 1.3, which contained a direct reference to the rights of the child. the lisbon treaty has included the protection of children's rights as an internal and external objective of the european union. these rights are also confirmed by the charter of fundamental rights. however, it is a shame that the 100 million children living in the european union are not equal in their rights and freedoms. it is clear that, because of their sensitivity and specific needs, children require special safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection. however, children's rights should not be set in opposition to or isolated from human rights in general. analysis of eu documents suggests that there may be a move towards treating children's rights as separate issues from human rights as a whole. it's a dangerous path and it can create dangerous divisions. i thank the rapporteur for not allowing the sensitivity of the issue to interfere with her balanced approach to the subject. it is good that the report does not focus exclusively on protective measures, but emphasizes the need to affirm children's rights in a positive way, such as the right to family, education, social inclusion, health care and equal opportunities.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. our debate today is proof that the european parliament wants to co-create a european policy on children. it is therefore worrying that many member states consider that almost all regulation on children's rights is a matter of family law and thus - by definition - a matter of exclusive national competence. this strictly national approach very often puts parliament out of the mainstream of decision-making on children's rights and reduces us, the parliament, to a mere voice. that is not a good approach in a united europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on crossborder maintenance enforcement, which parliament adopted in december. this regulation aims to ensure that children forgotten by one of their parents will no longer be hungry and abandoned, but will receive enforced material measures through a new, more effective system. i therefore believe that parliament, which also represents all european children, has a moral obligation to actively co-create legislation for them. in conclusion, commissioner, i would like to say that we need more parliament in the european regulations for the child.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the initiative to create a strategy for children's rights is a signal not only to europe but also to the world as to how to properly protect the rights of the youngest. i would like to congratulate mrs angelilla on her excellent report. unfortunately, violations of the rights of minors are frequent in parts of europe - a europe where we are so proud of our advanced human rights system. so we need to make sure that children who are experiencing all kinds of humiliation feel that there is someone they can turn to for help and that they can get help. i therefore support the report's call for more effective monitoring and the european commission's idea of a helpline for children in need. the problem of children from poor families, immigrants and refugees is also an important issue. they suffer for reasons independent of each other, and as a result, they are often condemned to a worse life in the future than their peers who were not condemned to flee their homeland. that's why i support the proposal to give them full rights, regardless of their parents' legal status, and to give them equal access to education.
in writing. the debate on children's rights today raises many fundamental issues concerning the proper development of our young people. the future of our children, their development, determines the future of our continent in terms of healthy interpersonal relationships. children's rights must be respected. the rights of parents to raise their children in accordance with their values must also be respected. to talk about children's rights and ignore the issue of their right to be raised in natural families where there is a father and a mother is to violate their rights. after all, deciding to adopt a child who is given to same-sex couples and thus deciding his future fate, or even in some way imposing his sexual orientation, is a violation of his fundamental rights. we cannot remain silent on this issue because it violates eu political correctness.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur mrs pack and also the commissioner, who is doing a great job, also in his work for the european institute of technology, but today we are talking about something else. i just wanted to draw your attention to one thing. at the beginning of the 20th century, europe was fighting illiteracy, and in the second half of the 20th century, all europeans were able to read and write. modern illiteracy is the lack of computer skills and the lack of access to the internet. i would suggest that we put even more emphasis on these issues. the digital divide is also a generation gap. the point is to know how many years - five or ten - from now every european will be able to use a computer, no matter what age, and will have access to the internet. this can be done, for example, by creating internet villages in remote parts of europe, where several computers can be grouped in one room and used by everyone in the village. this is the challenge of the 21st century.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. to conduct the cap responsibly, we need first of all accurate, reliable data. remote sensing techniques make it possible, among other things, to monitor crops or forecast yields. they are also becoming increasingly important in the context of ongoing climate change. with remote sensing, we can identify conditions that are not conducive to plant growth earlier, and thus better and faster predict areas at risk of drought. these techniques provide data for econometric models which we often use to study the effects of changes in the functioning of the cap. with more accurate initial data, we reduce the probability of errors in the predicted scenarios. that's why i think it's necessary to continue the mars project. however, the sources of funding for the project should remain unchanged, i.e. under a separate budget line and not from the european agricultural guarantee fund. as the project is financed by community funds, i.e. the tax revenues of our citizens, i believe that an analysis should be made of the effectiveness of the mars project and of the potential applications that are not yet being exploited. i fully agree with the rapporteur, and as usual i congratulate him on his excellent report, that we must ensure that the system is more consolidated and, above all, more efficient and more useful. the last thing i want to talk about is access to data. everyone should have the right to use this source of information, not only decision-makers at union level but also member states or research and scientific institutes. this data can be used even at farm level, for example precision agriculture uses information from remote sensing to optimise agrotechnical treatments.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to support the rapporteur's position that remote sensing techniques can be used by the european commission: firstly, to help manage agricultural markets; secondly, to monitor crop conditions and forecast harvests; and thirdly, to influence the price of agricultural raw materials - which will be particularly important in the coming years, given the continuing rise in food prices. the fulfilment of at least some of the objectives mentioned above allows remote sensing to be considered as a method providing important information to enable the management of the markets for individual agricultural products to be properly shaped. while i welcome this approach, i also share the rapporteur's view that projects in this area should be financed from a specific budget line rather than from the agricultural guarantee fund.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is true that we sometimes have the opportunity to sit here late in the evening and discuss agricultural issues, but i must say that i enjoyed, no matter how late it is, having an opportunity to exchange views on this – for those of us present here tonight, anyway – very interesting topic. firstly, it is clear that, in situations where the areas are covered with snow, it is not possible – and this applies to our finnish friends – to collect the data on the crops, but it is possible to collect the meteorological data, which will be available no matter what the weather conditions are. as this is also closely linked to the development that we are seeing in the discussions on climate change, i think that this information is also valid and important. there have been some concerns about the availability of the data, and i can only say that the data is available no matter where you come from. it is available either through the member states or on the internet, so there is no secret about the data collected in the different areas. concerning the budget, i think that it is important, in a situation where we have a limited budget for agriculture, that we take care to spend the money in the most appropriate way and that (i refer to mr martinez) we can defend how we spend the money and ensure that no fraud is taking place. i think that we have also been quite successful in explaining to the european parliament how we spend the money and how the control is carried out. however, it is equally important for me to say again tonight that the technology used in the system to register the field crops does not make it possible to use the same system for control purposes. the technology is completely different and the picture is simply unusable for control purposes, so please do not make this link, because it is completely inappropriate. however, i still believe that the money that we will spend in the future on this system is justified. it will be approximately between eur 1.5 million and eur 1.7 million every year. especially in a situation where we have seen dramatic changes in the price fluctuations in the agricultural sector, it is important that we have valid data on which to base our forecasts.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january 2008.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the status of members of the european parliament elected in poland, tabled by mr giuseppe gargani on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-0082/2007 b6-0002/2008).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject raised by mr gargani is certainly a relevant one: it is a relevant issue because there are two principles at stake here that i think are both relevant and both important. the first principle is certainly that of article 10 of the protocol on the status and immunities of members of the european parliament, which states that members of the european parliament must be accorded the same status in their home countries as members of the national parliament of that country. but there is another rule at stake - and one which is equally relevant in my view - and that is article 13 of the 1976 european act, which concerns the election of members of parliament. this article states very clearly that when a member state introduces a national rule relating to the very case in question, the loss of qualification status, that is to say the loss of the position of member of the european parliament, the termination of the mandate of a member of the european parliament in that country is subject to national law. in other words, there is an apparent contradiction, because on the one hand the legislation contained in the protocol on privileges, the one cited by president gargani, speaks of equality of prerogatives between members of the polish parliament and members of the european parliament elected in poland, but at the same time the european act of 1976 on the election of members of the european parliament and the loss of the status of member of the european parliament, apparently - i would say explicitly - regulates the loss of the status of european parliamentarian and states that the loss of the status of european parliamentarian is regulated by national law. in my view, there is rather a problem here of a violation of a third framework principle for the european union, which is the principle of equal treatment as established by polish domestic law. what is in the constitutional legislation of all european countries is the principle that similar situations must be treated in a similar way. it is rather this general principle that is at stake, and it is a general principle which does not, however, allow the european commission to determine in what direction the polish legislation should change its legislation, because since the matter is left to national law, if the national law wanted to regulate not the loss of the quality of a member of the european parliament but the loss of the quality of a polish national parliament in a different way, it could do so, the important thing is that it equates the discipline of the one with the discipline of the other. this is my personal view in the sense that the commission cannot today say 'we are going to the court to say that the polish national law must be amended in a certain direction', but i think that a general principle can be derived. the general principle is that the polish legislation must take action to correct this difference in treatment, but i believe that the polish legislator should do this. since this is a question that has never been asked and is too delicate to be dealt with in a few sentences, i think that we should first make an exploration: if the polish legislator, as i believe, is to remove this difference in treatment, that is a matter for the polish parliament. secondly: is there any conformity or non-conformity of polish legislation with the provisions of the european act of 1976 which i have just mentioned? i can tell you, mr gargani, that i have started a comparative study for the 12 new member states, precisely to see whether the legislation, not only of poland but of the other 11 which joined the european union between 2004 and 2007, whether in those member states the national legislation is in line with the provisions of the european act of 1976. in conclusion, there are two activities to be carried out. first of all: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think we should do this for everyone. the second task is to assess whether the polish parliament, by its legislative activity, can remove this apparent contradiction, because it is an apparent discrimination between the statutory status of the european parliament elected in poland and that of polish parliamentarians. there is an apparent contradiction and the only thing i think is difficult to accept is that the european commission should ask the court of justice in what direction the polish legislator should act. we could confine ourselves, if parliament agrees with this position, to pointing out that there is an apparent discrimination in poland between the status of two categories of members of parliament. this is a new exercise and in a spirit of cooperation we are trying to bring it forward together.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. president gargani has very accurately portrayed the situation of members of the european parliament in the context of polish law and the unequal treatment in the same context of national members as well as senators. i agree with commissioner frattini that this violates the principle of equal treatment of members before the law. i would like to inform you that the current ruling coalition in poland, the civic platform and the polish people's party, has already started preparations to change this law so that the rights of meps are equal to the rights of national meps and senators. this amendment will be aimed at the same provision as in the european parliament electoral code, so that the same principle applies to national members of parliament and senators. but in this context, because president gargani said that we are starting a sort of discussion here about a problem that is perhaps wider, i wonder whether it would not be worthwhile to consider a common electoral system, at least in general terms, a common electoral system for the european parliament for all the member states of the european union, because today we have a very different situation in all 27 member states. it is difficult not to agree i of course accept all kinds of legal restrictions on members, but it is difficult for me to agree to a situation where you are punished, even with a fine, but in a procedure for a public prosecution for an intentional offence and automatically lose your mandate as a member of the european parliament, and also in a situation where you can be held accountable.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate raises the issue of unequal treatment of polish meps and sejm meps in terms of eligibility criteria and loss of mandate. article 9 of the act of 23 january 2004 on the electoral system for the european parliament states that the right to stand for election to the european parliament is granted to a person who has not been convicted of an intentional offence or prosecuted for a public offence, and article 142 states that the loss of a mandate may be caused, inter alia, by the annulment of the election of a member of the european parliament, as a result of which the conviction of a member (as has already been said of the european parliament) by a final judgment for an intentional offence is equivalent to the automatic loss of his mandate, whereas in the case of members of the sejm this is neither an obstacle to participation in elections nor a loss of mandate. as regards the powers of members of the european parliament, rule 5 (1) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament states that 'members of the european parliament shall enjoy the privileges and immunities provided for in the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european communities', which in its preamble states that it regulates the matters relating to the privileges and immunities necessary for the performance of the tasks of the european communities, and rule 10a states that 'during the session of the assembly, its members shall enjoy in the territory of their state the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of their state', so that members of the sejm and of the european parliament are protected by the same immunity. article 11 of the said protocol provides that 'representatives of member states participating in the work of the institutions of the communities and their advisers and technical experts shall, while exercising their functions and during their travel to and from the place of meeting, enjoy the customary privileges, immunities and facilities'. it is common ground that a member of the european parliament is a representative of a member state participating in the work of the institutions of the communities. since members of the european parliament and the sejm should enjoy the same immunities and privileges, the conditions for their election and forfeiture of their mandate should also be the same. by acceding to the european union, poland accepted the obligation to respect the law in force in the union, in particular that which has direct effects on the internal legal order of a member state. i therefore call for the legislation on the status of members of the sejm and the european parliament in poland to be harmonised as soon as possible, and i fully agree with commissioner frattini on this point.
mr. chairman, please! the proposal that mr zwiefka has put forward to equalise the status of members of the european parliament and of members of the polish sejm is not a solution to the problem. i think the best solution would be, as is written in polish law, that in a situation where someone has been convicted of a crime committed intentionally, the court additionally decides to deprive the person of public rights, which means that the person cannot run for office. this is the case in france, for example. i would like to give a specific example: our colleague, mr onesta, vice-president of the european parliament, was sentenced a few months ago by a french court to a suspended prison sentence for an act for which, under polish law, a polish member of the european parliament would automatically lose his mandate. i think it's absolutely wrong the way things are now. it is better to go in that direction than to accept the solution proposed by mr frattini.
mr. chairman, please! in fact, in addition to the votes with which i largely agree, i think that we should of course harmonize the rules as quickly as possible. to show how necessary this is, i will draw attention to the story of our colleague, the member of the european parliament who is here in this chamber, mr tomczak, who has been in poland for many years now, and who is currently facing a criminal case which is coming to an end and which may affect his fate as an mep. a case that has a low-level of malice in which witnesses deny the event. a case that was once closed, which has now, perhaps, with some political turmoil, returned and today mp tomczak, who has already been democratically elected twice (in 2005 he became an mp, in 2004 an mep, our colleague), today can be questioned his immunity and his mandate. it's an incredible thing, it's harmful, and it should be cut down and removed from this forum as soon as possible.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate tonight has shown two things: firstly, there is a widespread view, shared by all those who have spoken, and i too believe that it is preferable, that this distinction in treatment should be removed for two categories of meps elected in poland and polish nationals and that this analysis should be extended to all the other new member states of the european union for which a compatibility check with the european act of 1976 has not yet been carried out. the second conclusion, and i refer to the proposal by mr medina ortega, which i share, is that the outcome of this debate should be brought to the attention of the competent authorities of the polish government and that the disparity of treatment should be removed by national legislation. i'll do that one. i can tell you that i will certainly be formally contacting the minister of justice of the polish government in order to convey to him a widely held opinion of this parliament - which i share - that it is up to the polish national legislator to decide how the result of eliminating the disparity of treatment can be achieved, the objective of eliminating the disparity of treatment must be pursued. here is my opinion expressed in the introduction: i do not think i can tell the polish legislator in which direction he should go, but i think i can tell him the objective, which is to remove the disparity of treatment between the status of the national polish parliamentarian and the status of the european parliamentarian elected in poland. i will certainly make that point and i will add that i will of course, in view of the interest of mr gargani and the legal affairs committee, make the analysis of the other 11 new member states known to this parliament so that it may be possible to make a similar point to the governments of the other countries concerned.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the explanation of vote.
i'm going to ask the services responsible for the temperature in the room to raise it. it may even increase during this part of the debate. oral explanations of vote
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr bogusław liberadzki on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 95/50/ec as regards the implementing powers conferred on the commission. the liberal mp has prepared a very good report. i agree with the rapporteur, who is very favourably disposed towards the commission's proposal and also proposes that it be adopted without amendments. directive 95/50/ec lays down the procedures for controls to be carried out by the member states in the field of the transport of dangerous goods by road. for the purpose of controls, a list of infringements has been proposed for which vehicles may be stopped and required to comply with the rules before continuing their journey. in addition, it is important that each member state submits a report on the implementation of the directive for each calendar year.
in writing. - the rapporteur, paolo costa, shows the essence of the abolition of discrimination in transport rates and conditions. indeed, considerable benefits can be achieved in a short time by relatively minor changes to existing legislation. as shadow rapporteur, i note that a common position has been reached between the council, the commission and parliament.
in writing. − the rapporteur, johannes blokland, rightly points out that appropriate regulations should be introduced at international and european level to enhance the protection of the environment and public health. the development of specific infrastructure in less developed countries will strongly oppose the irresponsible use of chemicals that can have harmful effects on the environment, the economy and working conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr blokland on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. the report raises the issue of allowing transportation without explicit consent. the current situation is economically disadvantageous for european chemical exporters if they are not allowed to import the substances listed in the annex. these regulations make it easy for european exporters, who are subject to severe restrictions in europe, to export chemicals outside the european union. the introduction of a flexible change may result in less developed countries, in particular, having no protection against the introduction of chemicals into their territory. in order to avoid uncontrolled exports of hazardous substances to third countries and to protect countries that have less or no ability to assess hazardous chemicals, the period of tacit consent should be shorter. it is important that the commission proposal addresses the issue of introducing tools to facilitate customs enforcement of the provisions of the regulation. close cooperation between customs offices and designated national authorities is necessary for the effective and proper functioning of the mechanisms proposed by the new regulation. the implementation of the new rules should be preceded by the development of product use guidelines and information documentation and by the provision of training in accordance with community standards, especially for the new member states.
in writing. - recalling the principle of the four fundamental freedoms of european economic integration, i would like to draw attention to the importance of regulation 1408/71, which aims to promote the mobility of workers in the european union. although the report in question deals with strictly technical matters, those matters, in seeking to update the regulation in question in order to take account of developments in the field of social security at national level, have a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens travelling, working or residing in another member state. i also agree with the rapporteur that the social conditions must be clearly defined when the principle of mobility is being implemented in europe. finally, i would like to emphasise how important the proposed changes and the transparency of the rules are for the thousands of polish citizens living and working abroad. this is one of the main reasons why i supported the csaba őra report.
in writing. - mr csaba őry rightly believes that effective coordination between member states in the field of benefits should be ensured at european union level. this regulation, by introducing updates to take account of recent developments in certain member states, has the potential to guarantee in the future the possibility for citizens moving from one member state to another to benefit from social security.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! taxation is perhaps one of the most sensitive eu issues. as soon as they are discussed in international forums, thousands of words of criticism are heard, mainly because member states are jealous of their right to establish them. in the discussion of ms kauppi's report on tax losses in border situations, the tax problem was indeed analysed in a substantial way. it highlighted the major problems associated with subsidiaries of companies that benefit from different tax regimes, often within the same company but in different countries. there is no doubt that the european union needs competitive tax rules. that does not mean harmonized in any way, but competitive. such that they do not constitute undue hardship but, on the contrary, provide an incentive for the possible opening of a business. i believe that the european union should not be concerned with the harmonization of corporate taxes at all, but should coordinate taxes at eu level in such a way that they bring real benefits from tax competition. i am glad that the rapporteur shares my views in the report.
i understand this was an emergency situation due to the number of applications. i hope this situation doesn't happen again.
mr. chairman, please! i would first like to congratulate mr janša on his assumption of the presidency of the community. this is a historic moment in the history of european integration, with a new member state taking over the presidency for the first time. slovenia is a country that has repeatedly experienced the changes in borders that have occurred on our continent. it is therefore a good example of european reconciliation, not only economically but also geopolitically. i therefore believe that the coming six months will be favourable to stabilising the situation in the western balkans. i hope that the neighbourhood policy and enlargement will be given priority during this time. i hope that the aspirations of our eastern neighbour, ukraine, will also now be better understood. i am glad that energy policy will also be one of slovenia's priorities. we know very well that europe will not be secure if we do not ensure our energy security. the european union cannot be blackmailed in this matter by anyone in the future and i am convinced that slovenia, a country which has borne the burden of communism for over 40 years, understands this perfectly well.
prime minister! you said a moment ago that the european union is not only bound together by a common economy and common policies, but also by the values of a common memory, culture and creativity. i agree with you. greetings, mr. prime minister, from the country of adam mickiewicz, from poland. this prophet, as the french call him, once asked, "slavs, what do you bring new?" what do you bring to the world's audience? he explained that the christian spirit was particularly pervasive among some european peoples, and that all christian progress was also the progress of nations. europe, the mother of nations, is bound together by the culture of christianity in its west and east. here in this parliament, french president valery giscard d'estaing recently told me that he had always been in favour of including a reference to the christian god in the european constitution. prime minister! you are right that the european year of intercultural dialogue is an opportunity for europe to become stronger through culture. jean monnet, who is now in the secular pantheon in paris, said that if he had to start all over again, he would start with culture. christian culture and religion, said professor tadeusz zieliński, buried in schöndorf near munich, is expressed in the longing of man. let slovenia, a small country in the european union, express this longing through its work for christian culture in europe. that is the greatness of your country in the european union, that is the greatness of our slavic countries in the european union. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! slovenia is the first of the new member states to hold the presidency of the european union. this presidency coincides with the 2008 year of intercultural dialogue, which is one of the main objectives of its programme. however, it should be borne in mind that such dialogue is possible only if the parties have a strong sense of cultural identity and are willing to share this wealth with others. the cultural foundation of europe is christianity, and therefore christian values must be promoted and strengthened, not undermined. it is difficult to see such a positive approach in the major eu documents adopted, such as the charter of fundamental rights and the reform treaty. there is no reference to the christian roots of europe. there was no serious debate on this subject in the european parliament either. in this context, it is questionable whether the european union, while neglecting and even undermining its own roots, is sufficiently prepared to engage in intercultural dialogue with strong partners from other regions of the world.
mr. chairman, please! i think we expect that the slovenian presidency in 2008 will allow the european union to resolve the issue of the constitutional treaty and prepare its ratification, that it will also allow solving one of the difficult problems of the european situation the kosovo problem. but i think it's important to say that besides priorities, there are certain tasks that are conducive to those priorities. i would urge that we consider intercultural dialogue to be such a task. i believe that it is part of the values that make up european unity, and that it also represents a certain geopolitical value that european union policy can have. it seems to me that it is in this context that europe can play the role of peacemaker in a situation where the world seems to be in a state of international disorder. i would also add that it is extremely important that the issue of kosovo be placed in the context of the problem of intercultural dialogue. this will be the problem of the future of kosovo. mr prime minister, i wish the slovenian presidency success.
mr president, mr president of the council of the european union! i congratulate slovenia on its presidency of the union and wish it success, especially in ratifying the new treaty. small slovenia has overtaken the great poland and let this example give us, the poles, to think. perhaps her example will reduce our fear of the union and increase our faith in its meaning. you are the second slav after john paul ii to preside over the culture of europe, including the western part of it. the union expected fresh blood, new brains and new thinking after enlargement in 2004, and you are delivering on that expectation by proposing the union's fifth freedom: the free flow of knowledge. finally, your country, a member of the former yugoslavia, which is familiar with the problems of the christian and islamic worlds, will certainly contribute to a just solution for kosovo, with respect for the rights of the serbs.
prime minister! expressions and sympathy and compassion. your country's inflation rate is 100% higher than it was a year ago. contrary to what your commissioner almunia said two months ago, mr president of the commission, the prime minister has admitted that this increase in inflation is also the result of the accession to the euroland. you have made the kosovo issue a priority. remember, its independence would be the first unilateral border change in europe since world war ii. that's all that's waiting for ossetia and abkhazia in georgia, but moscow is also interested in destabilizing the situation in the south caucasus. it could even threaten war in the region and the biggest military conflict in europe since the balkan cauldron in the early 1990s. of course, we must respect the right of the kosovar people to self-determination.
prime minister! the objectives you have set for yourself as president include the treaty, strategy, climate, energy, the western balkans, and if we add intercultural dialogue, it will be quite a lot for this small country, after the huge success of which i congratulate you and the entire slovenian people. at the last meeting of the foreign affairs committee, foreign minister amado did not mention the eastern dimension at all, whereas you made a very general reference to it, and i think that is one of your tasks, especially since you, as a representative of the slavic countries, should understand the eastern dimension of the slavic countries better than perhaps even the portuguese, without having any objections to them. the question is whether the enlargement, as announced by the french already now for their presidency, will be mainly for the western balkans, or perhaps something more. i wanted you to be clear about that. the second thing is that your presidency falls in the run-up to the european parliament elections and as we know, the turnout of twenty-seven per cent of the european population is not much and the trend is downwards. do you have anything to offer on this matter? how will you convince europeans that this is a good creation and that it is worth participating in? and the last thing, which is related to the first, namely, your country's ambassador to ukraine said that ukraine should, or should be, in a free trade zone during this presidency. of course, that would be good; there are still a few conditions to be met, namely, a duma resolution and well-functioning borders. how will the presidency support ukraine in this process? and mr president, i would like to say in conclusion that: they have the power and the responsibility, the time to control, their request for the future.
mr president, prime minister, please! the slovenian presidency has many ambitious tasks ahead of it. these ambitious tasks are primarily the ratification of the treaty. you'll be the guards, you'll have the whole procedure in your hands. so i ask you to think about those countries that have not adopted the charter of fundamental rights, that have filed opt-outs. the opt-out of poland, the uk is a fact, but i'm sure that these two countries will reflect that they made a mistake and will want to accept the charter. they're gonna give the charter to their own citizens. we need to help them do that, which is why i am calling on the state to provide for a simplified return procedure, one that is easy and quick, that is opt-in and does not require further ratification. the success of the presidency, mr. prime minister, is usually inversely proportional to the size of the country. i'm sure you'll follow that rule.
in writing. the programme of the slovenian presidency meets all the requirements of an economics enthusiast who believes that economic well-being is one of the keys to the success of the union. i found in the presidency's programme a lot of important references to the lisbon strategy and to the role of the internal market in the process of strengthening the eu on the international stage. the 21st century union should focus on education, on training. a well-educated society is the greatest potential that needs to be exploited in an economy that is based mainly on vibrant small and medium-sized enterprises that can be easily set up without unnecessary formalities and costs. these companies must have access to well-trained staff and to research resources, new technologies, etc. the presidency is paying close attention to this. the eu's new presidency will be responsible for the implementation of the eu's new rules on competition and the fight against unfair competition. because we know there's nothing worse than a bad law. i think it is particularly important to combine the initiative of removing administrative barriers for businesses with the opening of new avenues for new technologies. the presidency also does not forget consumers; consumer interests are as important as business interests and should be represented and protected in the same way. the presidency's agenda is very ambitious, but it also clearly sets out its priorities, which i agree with. i can only congratulate you and wish you success.
in writing. all the countries that have joined the european union since 2004 are proud that one of them, slovenia, is taking over the presidency. we look forward to the announcements and the first steps of the new presidency. the priorities for the first half of 2008 largely reflect the continuation of the work of the previous ones, in particular in terms of reviving the lisbon agenda, ratifying the new treaty and combating climate change. continuity of work is a desirable feature of the european union, given the six-monthly cycle of the presidency. regardless of the declared priorities, slovenia, due to its geography and history, is seen as a link country with the balkans. this is where both the prospects for further enlargement of the union lie and the serious problems of kosovo's independence at the top. understanding this is a clear asset to the new presidency. we also hope that a country that has been struggling to transform and adapt to eu standards will show understanding for the problems that the new member states face with their excessive commitments to renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions. a balance must be struck between environmental concerns and the need to boost the competitiveness of the european economy on a global scale. good luck, and thank you for your attention.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr kurt lechner on the recommendation for second reading on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on consumer credit agreements and repealing directive 87/102/eec. i think the compromise reached in the next round of negotiations is satisfactory. the proposed solution aims to simplify the credit procedure and to facilitate access to credit for consumers throughout the european union. harmonisation and unification of standards will contribute to increased competitiveness among credit institutions, lower costs and create a genuine internal market in consumer credit.
in writing. - i could not support the report on the strategy for children's rights because, at the request of the left, it contained five references to so-called reproductive rights and health, which implies, among other things, the availability of abortion.
in writing. - the report we are voting on concerns adult education, an issue which is gaining momentum throughout the european union and which has become something more in my country - a useful fad and a passion for thousands of people. it is not always dictated by purely commercial considerations. i would like to draw attention to one aspect of continuing adult education which has to do both with the contemporary demographic and civilizational challenges and with the legacy of the old system. the socialist system imposed a particular model of education that was saturated with propaganda and ideology in the humanities and reflected a disconnect from world trends in other fields. for these reasons, adult education in the new member states is both an opportunity to make up for the above weaknesses of the socialist model of education and a real opening to the world. in terms of foreign language skills, willingness to take the risk of retraining and job change, and the spread of european educational standards, this is an obvious prerequisite for mobility and employment opportunities - which explains the widespread interest in further education among my peers from central and eastern europe.
in writing. - in her report, ms pack calls for lifelong learning, not just learning in school. i agree with the statement that the current pace of economic and social change demands the need for continuous, long-term personal development. it is also a fact that adult education has a positive impact on self-esteem, contributes to better social integration and builds intercultural dialogue.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in kenya.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your support. kenya is not just a problem of president kibaki's electoral fraud. we have a humanitarian crisis there among the civilian population. the most dramatic situation seems to be in eldoret parish under the call of the holy spirit in langas. we're dealing with a lot of political and ethnic murders. many kenyans were driven from their family homes, which were then burned. in the parish of langas alone, more than 3,000 people were hiding on january 1, 2008. refugees are deprived of food, clean water and sanitation. the catholic missionary news agency misna reported on january 2 that between 7,000 and 10,000 people are hiding in the langas cathedral alone. what is needed is not only political mediation but also measures to prevent ethnic and religious hatred from erupting.
mr. chairman, please! the example of kenya shows what can happen when democratic standards are broken and how important it is that elections are free, transparent, fair and just. those who lose elections, whether they lost in fair competition or were cheated by those who organized the electoral process, should not resort to violence and rape. harming random people, including women and children, has nothing to do with acceptable forms of fighting for your rights. the only hope for an effective solution to these problems is to convince the ruling and the opposition that the ultimate goal of politics is not to gain or retain power, that the goal of politics is the good of the people. so the return to normalcy in kenya must begin with the cessation of violence and rape. i understand that this is the primary objective of the african union mediators, and the european union should support this process. i wanted to thank commissioner michel for that statement.
the chairman of the council. - mr borrell warned that we must not limit ourselves to expressing concern. i agree with him and would also like to answer mr wijkman's question whether the european union is prepared to help find a solution. the presidency's position is that it must be prepared to help find a solution, to be active. what solutions? mrs martens stressed the need for african solutions to african problems. i agree with that, too. the european union is not the one that should impose its own solutions to such problems, quite the contrary. but it must support, actively support, the search for an appropriate solution, both with other actors in the international community, and in particular with those with whom we share the common values to which mr lambsdorff referred. and in this regard, the presidency will commit itself to firmly support the efforts of a group of eminent african personalities led by former un secretary-general mr annan. we will also have to continue, in our judgment, with humanitarian aid, in an appropriate way, of course. allow me, mr. speaker, to thank all the esteemed members for their contributions. we will certainly pass them on faithfully to our colleagues on the council. we are pleased that the general position of the institutions is very similar. we will be following developments in kenya very closely.
member of the commission. - mr president, i will quickly mention, first of all, not the 30 million but the 40.6 million which constituted the payment, several months ago, of the second tranche of the 120 million euro programme entitled 'poverty reduction budget support programme'. the decision to pay was delayed pending the results and recommendations of the third review of this prbs programme by the international monetary fund. these results were known at the beginning of november and, on the basis of the favourable opinion of the international monetary fund, the commission approved in principle the payment of eur 40.6 million in a letter to the kenyan minister of finance in november. however, in view of the electoral context and the risk of electoral use of this payment by the government, it was decided by the commission, in consultation with the member states, not to make the payment before the elections, but only after the elections and before the deadline of 31 december 2007 for financial commitments, in accordance with the applicable procedures. that's why technically the payment was made on december 28th. i understand the concern, but it is only from the evening of friday 28 and saturday 29 december that irregularities began to appear, when the transmission of the results of the last 49 electoral districts, out of a total of 210, was subject to abnormal delays, and, as you know, it was not until monday 1 january, on the basis of the events of the weekend, that the european union's election observation mission found in its preliminary analysis that the elections had not met international standards. it was therefore technically too late to prevent or block the disbursement of the eur 40,6 million. secondly, i would like to point out - because it is important for the argument - that i agree with a lot of what has been said, but there are also things with which i do not agree at all. it is obviously wrong to suggest that the technique or method of budget support is a method or technique which is not subject to any conditions or checks. i would simply point out that a sudden suspension of budgetary aid is worth checking first that the proposal by mrs kinnock and others to convert budgetary aid into project aid is feasible within a short time or as short as budgetary aid, so as not to put people in an even more catastrophic situation of deprivation. it is easy to assert principles, but it is also necessary to ensure that the results and consequences of their implementation do not contribute to further worsening the situation. so, two thoughts on budget support. budget support is controlled. there is a need to provide supporting documents, and this is no less transparent than the system of project aid. of course, mrs kinnock and others, it goes without saying that if there is no agreement quickly between the parties to return to calm and, i hope, to agree on the possible organization of new elections, as mr wittmann wishes, the budgetary aid, which in a certain way labels the country with which this technique is being used, will certainly no longer be able to be implemented and other means will have to be found to do so. but i do not agree with the idea of simply suspending development aid to kenya. it is always important to remember that there are people who benefit from such help. i wanted to do this focus and i think it was important. i would like to make two final points. should we hold elections right away? i think it would be desirable if the parties could agree. we can express all the wishes of the world, but to think that we will hold elections right away without an agreement between the parties is not realistic. we must also be careful not to create situations which increase the difficulties and misery of people. this is an element which must not be lost sight of and i believe that we must proceed with great caution. i am in favour of elections, provided they are the result of an agreement. we will fully support the african mediation and of course, as the council has said, the commission is available for a mediation mission. i contacted kofi annan and had a long talk with him. i told him that we were available - including the high representative - to do some mediation work. clearly, what we want today is that it should be an african mediation first. it seems to me that this is an element that we cannot lose sight of. finally, as regards mr mulder's question, if the european development fund were budgeted, as parliament and i are asking for, budgetary aid - for example, in terms of amounts, techniques, controls, audits and monitoring - would be automatic, which would greatly simplify the procedure. you cannot imagine how much more comfortable and efficient my life would be if i depended much more directly on parliament's choices, options and control over the use of my budget. i am afraid that this is unfortunately not possible in the present state of affairs, but it is clear that i wish to discuss this matter. the question you ask once again proves that the budgetization of the european development fund would be a considerable step forward in terms of the effectiveness of our aid.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with article 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a council decision establishing the european police office (europol) (com (2006) 0817 c6-0055/2007 2006/0310 (cns)) (a6-0447/2007).
the main task of the european police office is to improve the effectiveness of action and cooperation between member states' authorities in preventing and combating transnational organised crime. the mission of the agency is to contribute to the enforcement of the law in the european union in relation to this form of crime. this is becoming more and more important in the face of the constantly emerging new forms of crime and the terrorist threat. life forces us to extend europol's powers and to adapt its rules of operation by introducing more flexible mechanisms. however, the agency proposed by the rapporteur must be accompanied by clear rules on the democratic control of europol and the protection of personal data.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for these supplementary questions. with regard to the use of nuclear energy, the presidency firmly believes that the decision to introduce, continue to use and possibly increase the use of nuclear energy is entirely a matter for the member states and this line will be consistently followed by the presidency. the second part of your question, mr. stubb, was about slovenia. slovenia, as is known, is one of the countries using nuclear energy, and there is a possibility, but no decision, that this energy use is increasing or that slovenia will also resort to it in the future. as regards the north stream project, it is not a union project, it is a project of the countries directly involved in this project, so that the union, or the council, and also the presidency, obviously have no position on this particular case. but he takes a principled view of the projects we want to implement as a union, and in this connection he would mention in particular the nabucco pipeline project. i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology, which are very important for the future of the union.
the chairman of the council. - five conferences on force-building have already been held in brussels. november 3rd last year, december 1st last year, and the last one before that, january 11th of this year. as in every operation of this kind, the process of building up forces proved to be a difficult one, but i am pleased to inform you that the fifth, i.e. the last, conference on building up forces was a success and that the european union now has all the necessary capabilities at its disposal. a decision to launch the mission is expected to be taken at the general affairs and external relations council of the european union later this month, on 28 january 2008. initial operational capacity is expected to be reached in late january or early february this year. this will include special units with some infantry elements and the deployment of technical, logistical and medical resources to prepare the ground for the main installation. the general deployment of the peacekeeping forces is expected to take place in may, before the onset of the rainy season. at this stage, eufor in chad is expected to have approximately 4000 personnel. with regard to the recent military clashes between rebel groups and chadian government forces in eastern chad, the council deeply regrets the rebel attacks that have led to the current fighting. in its conclusions of 10 december, the council expressed its deep concern and called on the government of chad to create, in cooperation with sudan and libya, the necessary conditions for a lasting political solution based on the sirte peace agreement. the council also called on the chadian and sudanese governments to fulfil their obligations under the tripoli agreement and, in particular, to cease supporting the armed movements that are destabilising the area. in view of the fact that rebel groups are also operating from darfur, the council reminds the government of sudan that it is responsible for preventing the passage of armed groups across the border with chad. the council is aware that lasting results can only be achieved through a political solution and therefore underlines the importance of the political agreement on consolidating the democratic process in chad, signed on 13 august last year.
the chairman of the council. - first, the question from mr. burke. there is certainly another lesson in a long series of lessons, perhaps, that teaches one above all - that it is easier to make a decision on principle than to ensure its implementation. well, we were successful in that process, though. it took some time, but i think not only an agreement was reached in time, but also an agreement on the implementation itself. as regards the second question, i would like to say that it is a question of principle, which must of course be resolved in accordance with international law and the charter of the united nations. it is, of course, appropriate that, in the case of peacekeeping operations, peace operations, cooperation be conducted under the auspices of the united nations, but this does not mean that the european union is incapable of making decisions on its own missions of a different kind, even on its own.
mr. chairman, please! that's more like an opinion. poland provides 10% of the troops in chad, or about 400 soldiers, and i would therefore like to appeal to the slovenian delegation to do everything possible to ensure that this mission is a success. it must be a well-prepared mission, very well equipped, and it is known that the initiator of this mission was france. that is why i ask slovenia, as chair, to be very demanding of france, which is the leader in this mission. it has to be logistically, i repeat, europe cannot be compromised.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to refer to the last words of the previous speech. the point is to make the transport routes for gas and oil through the black sea a reality. the european union, we all talk about these being strategic projects, the nabucco project is a strategic project. we've been saying it for years, but nothing's happened. the question is why, if there are such difficulties, could not some financial resources be used, as was done with the galileo project, to make this project a reality? if there is no practical and visible movement here, the russians will soon be building their own pipelines through the black sea and therefore our whole great program of diversifying transport routes will fall apart. there is also the other matter. the aim is to ensure that europe has supplies from the whole caspian sea region. azerbaijan alone could supply europe in five years with one third of the gas that europe now gets from russia, but there's also kazakhstan and turkmenistan. but to be able to run pipelines that do not pass through russia, from those areas, it would be necessary to solve the problem of the status of the caspian sea, and thus decide finally whether it should be treated as a lake or as a sea. it seems that a much more reasonable and beneficial solution would be to get the caspian sea generally recognized as a sea, because in this respect the construction of gas pipelines or pipelines through this body of water, whether from turkmenistan or kazakhstan, would be much simpler. i therefore warmly appeal to the european union authorities to stop repeating that the nabucco problem or the odessa-brody-gdańsk pipeline are problems of importance to the european union. we have to act now, or the others will be ahead of us.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i too join in congratulating mrs polfer on the preparation of this very good report. we are discussing today the situation in a region of particular importance to the european union as a whole, a region of great importance for the energy security of the european union. the title of this report, 'on an effective european union policy towards the south caucasus: from promises to action', clearly shows that the european union has been extremely passive towards the region in recent years. and this is a region that is the arena of competition for the major players in the international arena, not just the european union, but also russia, the united states and china. it's a region of incredibly rapid economic growth. suffice it to say that in 2006 azerbaijan's economic growth exceeded 35%. but 2008 could be a breakthrough year, it could be a crisis year. let's not kid ourselves, the example of kosovo could be used by georgia's northern neighbor as a pretext to break the country's territorial integrity. i therefore hope that the european union will not allow russia to support separatist aspirations in abkhazia and ossetia.
madam president! we are following the situation in the caucasus with great concern and interest. armenia and georgia are countries very close to europe, not only geographically but also civilisationally. i would like to express my support for all the democratic forces in these countries and for initiatives to promote democracy and economic development among the peoples of the caucasus. stabilisation of the region is in the interest of all countries in the region as well as of partners and neighbours, including the european union. it is in our interest to support all the nations of the region, including in the area of human rights and media freedom. i hope that the authorities in armenia, azerbaijan and georgia will ensure freedom of speech and freedom of the media before the elections that await the region in 2008. the georgian people have had the opportunity in recent days to express their democratic choice in the presidential elections. although president saakashvili won the plebiscite, i am concerned about the mass protests by the opposition, who are calling into question the election result, also in light of the recent events in georgia, which ended with the violent suppression of peaceful demonstrations, the closure of independent media and the imposition of a state of emergency. i also wish to express my concern about the deteriorating situation of human rights and media freedom in azerbaijan. we must not forget the small and historic peoples of the caucasus - the abkhazians and the ossetians - whose right to self-determination should be taken into account in the multilateral dialogue with the georgian authorities. the situation in karabakh also requires mutual understanding and dialogue, where the independent aspirations of the armenian community should be taken into account and reconciled with the expectations of the azerbaijani population and nationality. all parties should realise that the future and prosperity of the region depend on the ability to communicate and build common relations based on peace and mutual trust.
madam president! this is an important debate and an important report by congresswoman polfer. this vote by the european parliament is an attempt to make up for decades of delay. at that time, the union had practically no real policy towards the south caucasus countries. today we finally understood that azerbaijan, armenia, georgia are not natural zones of economic and political influence of russia. i say this literally 11 days after the elections in georgia, where i was one of six observers from the european parliament, elections won again by a representative of the pro-western option, a supporter of maximum rapprochement with the union and entry into nato. i say this in the context of the political and even military conflict between georgia and russia over ossetia and abkhazia, which threatens us all - the whole of europe - but yerevan, baku and tbilisi are also important for the union's energy policy, the diversification of energy sources. so from words to deeds, as the title of the report suggests, let's go from talking to doing.
madam president! the issues we are debating today - as my predecessors have noted - are extremely important. they set out a direction for community action which has been and continues to be very neglected. the european union can naturally expand and extend its influence only to the east, so as not to lose its european character. however, the endless talks about, for example, the prospects for membership for some countries in the region are not encouraging. it is not necessary to go through the documents to see that this region is treated as a distant province of our continent compared to, say, africa. any cooperation mechanism, such as the european neighbourhood policy, is important, but it is not the final outlook for the region, as it does not define a true partnership in mutual relations. for the union, serious engagement in the region is linked to russia's entry into its sphere of influence, and this is a prerequisite for continuing to direct funds to that region. however, we must remember that such a policy, with a multiannual dimension, will not stabilise the area, but on the contrary, may generate new tensions, which we are still facing.
madam president, the rapporteur on the black sea regional policy reminds us that the european union supports new energy infrastructure and viable transport corridors, diversifying both suppliers and routes. the prime example of such an undertaking is the nabucco gas pipeline, already recognised as a priority project of european interest. it is, therefore, regrettable that this project is being undermined by an alternative russian-italian pipeline by the name of south stream. as a member from poland, i see many parallels between south stream and the nord stream baltic gas pipeline. both are much more expensive than overland routes. indeed, south stream may prove to be usd 4 billion more expensive than nabucco. both may disturb the fragile ecological balance of sensitive marine environments. furthermore, in both cases, the pipelines may be seen as a political weapon in the hands of russia. nord stream will isolate poland, the baltic states and ukraine; south stream will play the same role with respect to turkey, the south caucasus and, possibly, romania, which may now be bypassed in favour of serbia. south stream goes against the principle of energy security in europe, based on diverse sources and routes. thus, if south stream does go ahead, it should not receive eu funding at any stage. if russia is going to push forward economically unviable and environmentally questionable projects, because they serve its foreign policy aims, then it should not be at our expense.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on the countries of the south caucasus and regional policy in the black sea region, i would like to draw attention to the following points. firstly, it is a huge area of energy production and transmission, which is of great importance for the diversification and security of supply of energy resources to the union. however, support is needed for projects to transport energy resources from this area not only to the south of europe, as is the case so far, but also to the north to ukraine and poland and further west. secondly, only the european union's support for political stability and democratization processes in the region, as well as for the peaceful settlement of conflicts between neighbours, will give these countries a chance to develop rapidly and to reduce significantly the huge unemployment and poverty. third, the strong economic growth in the region as a whole, in some countries exceeding 30% of gdp per year, is based solely on the extraction and export of oil and natural gas. it is therefore necessary to promote alternative sources of income in the area, in particular the development of tourism and related infrastructure.
madam president! the rapporteur is very pleased to present to the european parliament the initiative to strengthen black sea synergy, a proposal put forward by the german presidency and concretised by the european commission. the idea also gained support from the newly integrated southern and eastern baltic countries. their position also reflects their conviction that black sea synergy needs to be closely integrated with the so-called eastern dimension of the european union. local cooperation will thus acquire a more general meaning, a potential for implementation in line with the basic community message. in other words, black sea synergy should simply be expressed in the identification and synthesis of multilateral undertakings, identifying them with the well-understood interest of both the black sea region and the whole of eastern europe as an integrated region. the special geographical, historical and political-economic situation of the black sea is an important factor enhancing its special role. for thousands of years, this region has been a crossroads of european and asian influences. the european union's involvement in the black sea must therefore be free from unnecessary institutionalisation, political influence and restrictions which threaten to weaken the conditions for rational cooperation and even destabilise the region, both in terms of security and the functioning of the transport network, environmental protection, etc. additional favourable conditions should also be created for the black sea to be more closely involved in the process of diversifying energy supply routes, with possible consideration of new sources, especially from the so-called caspian direction. many eu countries are interested in it.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission warmly welcomes the motion for a resolution on the role of women in industry. i congratulate the rapporteur, ms figueiredo, on addressing this issue of the situation and role of women in industry, which is complex. one of the several reasons is that, as shown in the report, the gender equality challenges in industry are even more acute than in other sectors. in industry, the problems of working conditions, the pay gap and the reconciliation of work and private life tend to be even more pronounced. it is also a complex issue because it goes beyond equality policy to relate to the general situation in industry in europe and the way community policies can support industry and workers – both men and women – in the difficult context of globalisation. as you know, the adoption of the roadmap for gender equality in 2006 underlined the union’s full commitment to do its utmost to make progress towards a situation of real equality between men and women. the six priorities of the roadmap are linked to improving the situation of women on the labour market. the first is economic independence for women and men, the second is reconciliation of private and professional life, the third is equal representation in decision-making and the fourth is the elimination of stereotypes. the commission welcomes the fact that parliament’s motion for a resolution highlights precisely these areas. whilst the progress made in the area of gender equality is unquestionable, major challenges remain. the commission shares the rapporteur’s view that we must continue our efforts and consolidate what has been achieved. as far as women’s participation in industry is concerned, two issues should be tackled. firstly, there are still very few women in industry compared to the services sector. secondly, those women who work in industry tend to be in typically female sectors which are very labour-intensive and characterised by poor working conditions and low wages. the commission is conducting various policies to meet these challenges. combating stereotypes in education will, in the long term, lead to there being more highly skilled women in technical and scientific occupations and will also help to meet the needs of certain industrial sectors for manpower or womanpower. it is also important to support the careers of female engineers via networking, mentoring and measures to balance work and private life. in order to diversify women’s employment in industry, it is vital to provide every opportunity for training and retraining. the european social fund provides essential support in this area. it is also vital to improve the current situation of women working in industry. for example, there is still an unjustifiably large gap between women and men. in industry, this gap is as much as 30%. for this reason, in july 2007 the commission adopted a communication on tackling the pay gap between women and men. the communication examined all the resources that must be mobilised to achieve this aim. the involvement of enterprises is an important way of making progress in the areas of equality between men and women at work, the gender pay gap, training, work-life balance and career development. in addition to the laws on equal treatment, which all enterprises must obey, it is important to encourage them to adopt voluntary measures to promote equality, in particular in the context of corporate social responsibility. finally, the commission will shortly relaunch an awareness-raising campaign for enterprises about gender stereotypes. the report on women in industry underlines the vital role of work-life balance in order to achieve real gender equality and the commission shares this analysis. this point was mentioned during the adoption by parliament of the kauppi report in september 2007. the commission will report in 2008 on progress towards the barcelona objectives in the area of childcare. the second phase of the consultation of social partners on work-life balance concluded in july. the commission takes the view that this issue should be tackled using a combination of different instruments, including the amendment of current community legislation in order to better take account of new challenges. as i stressed, the issue of women in industry also reflects the general situation of industry in europe. the commission will continue to pursue all the necessary policies to face up to globalisation, ensure a future for industry in the member states and help workers of both sexes when the companies for which they work are restructured. european laws on employee information and consultation, social dialogue and the european social fund are all instruments designed to achieve this. the european globalisation adjustment fund, launched in 2007, will provide assistance of up to eur 500 million per year and its rules provide specifically for gender equality to be taken into account. the commission is, therefore, responding to all the challenges identified by the report on the role of women in industry by taking measures of various kinds: improving equality, working conditions and the role of women in industry, combating stereotypes, creating better conditions for reconciling work and family life and providing general support for companies and workers in industrial sectors in difficulty. i should like to make a personal statement: i sincerely support this way of tackling the difficulties in this specific area.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i remember the 1950s in poland huge posters with a smiling girl driving a tractor, girls from the organization służba polska carrying kilos and shovels on their shoulders, marching joyfully to work, women at textile machines and looms. but also for more recent times - women in design offices, at computers, operating modern lines producing electronics, mobile phones, televisions, and the tired faces of women after long, tiring hours of work rushing home to do other daily chores. these images flashed before my eyes as i read the report by mrs ilda figueiredo, member of parliament, on the role of women in industry. over the years, efforts have been made to protect women, to reduce the workload and to promote equal treatment. unfortunately, the differences remain today. very true, although perhaps the list of expectations is incomplete. differences in the treatment of women and men at work still exist, both in pay, career paths and in the assessment of work and qualifications. the worst part is that the conditions for the fulfilment of women's aspirations and expectations, which would ensure their professional development and stability, have not been created.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. statistics show that more men than women work in the european union in every age group, which is a result of personal choice or tradition, but is often due to discrimination in the workplace. in addition, in all the countries of the union, women earn on average less than men, so it is important to remind companies and employers, also by legal and legislative means, of the obligation to respect the principle of equality, not only in relation to wages. however, the unequal participation of women in industry must be rationalised, as 'women's' industries may be associated with less physical, mental and emotional strain, which should be encouraged for women and which need not be associated with lower wages. it is hard to expect more men to work in embroidery and more women to work in metalworking. furthermore, this embroidery industry, for example, may offer higher earnings due to its artistic specificity than, for example, the food industry. equal pay for men and women in all areas must be ensured, together with the fight against exploitation in the workplace and other pathologies and irregularities. part-time work, especially for women, should be promoted, as should other forms of flexibility to change skills or to learn. in my speeches and amendments i have proposed many times not only to guarantee the return to work after parental leave or maternity leave, but also to include the period of parental leave or maternity leave in working time, with the possible payment of an appropriate cash benefit, which would not only prevent low pension benefits but also lead to a reduction in unemployment and, above all, would guarantee the proper upbringing and development of children, who are the future of every family, nation and the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the role of women in the economy will increase, for example, due to demographic problems. so it is worth focusing on this matter. as a polish woman and a physicist by profession, i can say that in my country, the average level of education of women is higher than the average level of education of men. women's entrepreneurship is also higher in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. i don't see any gender bias in science. however, women's wages are still 15 to 20% lower than men's and the proportion of women in company management is much lower. the proportion of women in non-permanent employment is also higher. thus, while training and any form of upskilling are important, they are not a sufficient condition for reducing discrimination. the poverty of women is generated not only by low wages, but also by the design of pension systems. the pension reform in poland introduced the payment of a pension contribution for persons taking maternity and parental leave from the state budget. this is a significant reduction in the penalty for maternity for women by pension schemes. the need to address this issue was also recognised in the report. i also attach great importance to the gender-specific approach to occupational safety and health. in particular, the higher burden of women in jobs that cause musculoskeletal disorders. these issues were also addressed in the report.
madam president! only 14-25% of women in employment in the european union work in industry, and their participation in different industrial sectors is uneven because of persistent stereotypes in education and career choices. women are mainly employed in industries such as textiles, clothing, footwear, food and processing, where low wages are prevalent. in high-tech sectors, where jobs are higher, women are definitely underrepresented. member states should develop and financially support programmes for women's education and entrepreneurship, and create incentives for women in industry to continuously improve their skills. each member state has an obligation to respect the principle of equal pay, decent working conditions and career prospects, while respecting social values such as motherhood and fatherhood. respect for social standards, such as the right to safety, social protection and freedom of association, will contribute to the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women in the workplace. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mrs figueiredo on a very well-prepared report.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the internet is like a knife. a knife can cut the bread we eat every day, but a knife can also kill. it's hard to imagine the world today without the internet, and our work today without the internet, but the internet is also a tool used by, for example, pedophiles. so it's very good that the european union, as one of the priorities at the last internet governance forum that was held in brazil two months ago, has recognized that the protection of children on the internet will be one of the priorities. we should strive to combine maximum accessibility and openness with ensuring the safety of not only children but all those who may be at risk from the instrumental use of the internet. it is significant that the next internet governance forum will be held in india's capital, new delhi, a country that has become a technology powerhouse despite being a relatively poor country, serving global corporations and at the same time enabling the material status of hundreds of thousands of people to be improved. two proposals seem worthy of support. the first is the idea of hosting an internet governance forum in two years in one of the new eu countries, for example in poland or lithuania. the second is our solution, not the global one, but our european one, the internet governance forum. the role of the european parliament is absolutely fundamental here. of course, within the union, the saturation of the internet varies between member states, and in my country, poland, it is too weak, for economic reasons. the european union should work to ensure that this saturation is somewhat similar, especially in rural areas.
in writing. − i am against the creation of a european agency for fundamental rights, which is why i did not support the agency's multiannual framework for 2007-2012. i believe that the proposal to create it and give it powers is not only a waste of money but also a dangerous political initiative whose long-term effects will be harmful to the member states of the union. the permanent programme of the union's agency is a clear interference with the sovereignty of the member states and has no raison d'être whatsoever. we have institutions in every country and in europe that stand guard over democracy and respect for human rights. it is clear to me that the agency will go beyond the thematic areas for which it was set up. already in today's vote, in the sixth amendment to the preamble of the document, we had an example of defining who is a human being and at what point does he acquire human rights. i consider this kind of action to be a scandalous attempt to push dangerous ideological ideas in the european union in a hidden way.
in writing. − the eu member states have given the fight against organised crime an institutionalised europol formula. today, 12 years after its creation, we are debating how to extend the powers and simplify the functioning of this institution. the rapporteur has rightly assessed the current legal and factual situation of europol. it rightly criticises the overly complex and lengthy procedure for changing its status and its place in the eu's organisational structure. the corrective measures it proposes in its report also deserve attention and support. previous attempts to change europol's remit show how difficult it is to reach agreement between countries when unanimity is the rule. i therefore believe that only the ratification and implementation, in all 27 member states, of the lisbon treaty, which also reforms the way decision-making is done in the eu, will allow for procedural changes and lead to a recovery of this situation. the european parliament and the council have adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc).
in writing. - it is clear that industry in europe is undergoing systematic change. it is therefore difficult to overstate its strategic importance for the development of all member states of the european union and their citizens, regardless of gender. the role and prospects of women working in european industry depend not only on the level of economic development of the country, but also on the tradition of promoting equality and respecting human rights standards. women are very active and make a significant contribution in almost all sectors, but it is necessary to agree with the rapporteur that their participation in high-tech industries such as aeronautics or the chemical industry is far from sufficient. it is therefore good that the report emphasises this aspect and gives due weight to gender issues. it is also intended to emphasise that women's participation in industry cannot be limited to work in the low-skilled sectors, where women are the first victims of restructuring. the rapporteur's suggestion that support should be given, in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to maintain the highest possible level of employment of women, especially those who are disadvantaged, should be fully endorsed. for these reasons, the report deserves support.
in writing. - human rights are the foundation of democracy. among these, the principle of equal rights for women and men is of paramount importance, taking into account, of course, the conditions arising from biological differences. the problem also has a dimension in terms of employment and the role of women in industry. in no case shall an arithmetical division of the type: half and half be used. this is above all about equal opportunities, which is conditional on access to education and vocational training in technical and economic disciplines. the issue of helping mothers with children and not discriminating against them in the workplace is also of great importance. flexible pension provisions should be introduced for women raising children with full entitlement to parental leave until the amount of time taken into account as work in the pension scheme. today, in many of our countries, women are still paid much less for the same amount and quality of work. nor is there any justification for creating any barriers to women's participation in management positions on company boards or supervisory boards. this is a subject that requires action to break down stereotypes. the report we are debating is moving in that direction, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mrs ilda figueiredo on the role of women in industry. i would like to congratulate the honourable member on a very good and reliable report. the issue of equal rights for women and men is very important and we must continue to give it the utmost attention, because the european union is based on the principle of non-discrimination. the fight against any evidence of non-compliance with this principle should be our priority. especially since the pursuit of the idea of a knowledge-based economy is changing the nature of industry. traditional sectors employing women are concentrated around manufacturing, while new industrial sectors are based on the development of new technologies, such as information and communication technologies. we must do everything we can to ensure that the principle of equal opportunities is also respected in these newly emerging industrial sectors.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and it's not just the chinese, because we've also talked here many times about the persecuted tibetans and other national minorities. we are talking today about this, about the unlawful arrest, about the persecution of a freedom activist, a man who fights for freedom in china, the politician hu jia and his family and his wife. ladies and gentlemen! let me remind you that a few decades ago, the soviet union boycotted the olympics, and that proved to be a contributing factor in the collapse of the communist regime. we cannot today, while delighted by china's economic successes, which we acknowledge and for which we congratulate china, turn a blind eye to the persecution of people in their basic rights, and as i said both chinese and other inhabitants of so-called china, because tibet, which we have repeatedly spoken about, is not china. i call for a boycott of the olympics.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. in 2001, when the decision to award the beijing olympics was announced, many of us believed that the decision, while controversial, would help change the policies of communist china, that it would lead the organizers of the games to stop the widespread violation of human rights and that it would help expand the scope of civil liberties in the country. i agree with congressman mann that with seven months to go before the olympics, we know that those hopes have turned out to be unfulfilled. it's the opposite. we're seeing an increase in terror in china. human rights defenders like hu jia and his wife are imprisoned and illegally detained without trial in unknown locations, harassed, intimidated or deprived of their right to defend themselves. the chinese authorities are sending a different message to the world: no democracy, no opening up. at the same time, the chinese olympic committee decides that the main slogan of the games will be "one world, one dream", stating that this dream is the common pursuit of prosperity and peace. the question is, what kind of peace is china talking about, and do they really understand the idea of the olympics?
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the chinese activist mr hu jia was arrested two days after christmas during the afternoon at his home. it is very sad news, particularly because china, a great country, a great global player in the contemporary world, is the organiser of the olympic games this year. the european parliament and all the european union must stress that china must challenge six issues relating to human rights: china’s failure to fully implement new regulations allowing greater press freedom; china’s superficial commitments to upholding the rule of law; limited chinese support for international efforts to promote civilian protection in darfur, sudan; limited chinese support for international efforts to promote human rights in burma; the absence of transparency in chinese aid to abusive governments; and, in particular, the release from prison of all political prisoners in china.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the marriage of hu jia and zeng jinyan became a symbol for us of the struggle for freedom of speech, the struggle for human rights in china. the fact that the european parliament has nominated them for the sakharov prize is also a reason why they are being repressed in their own country. hu jia was arrested on january 2nd. in the 1980s, during the martial law in poland, the protection against the most drastic repressions was decided by openness. it was the mention of the name of the prisoner by the press or the radio station behind the iron curtain that gave us hope of safety. i have experienced this help from the unwilling people abroad. that is why it is so important to me today that our voice, the voice of the european parliament, the voice of hundreds of parliamentarians from different european countries, be heard in china, that it be heard by the chinese authorities, that it stop the repression against hu jia and other persecuted people.
madam president! in 2001, liu jingmin, vice president of the beijing organizing committee for the 2008 olympics, said, "by allowing beijing to host the games, you will help advance human rights". meanwhile, in recent months, the chinese authorities have been more aggressive than usual in their crackdown on freedom of expression and repression of journalists and activists. the detention of hu jia , a leading human rights activist and 2007 sakharov prize nominee, has deeply shocked the public. detained on the pretext of inciting subversion of state power, he is still denied access to a lawyer and medical care. china must be forced to respect international human rights and rule of law standards and to ban the use of the games as a pretext for the unlawful imprisonment of journalists and dissidents. we should remind the chinese authorities of the idea behind the olympic movement, which is to combine sport with a vision of promoting a peaceful society and preserving human dignity. at the same time, it should demand the immediate release of hu jia and all activists detained without trial, allowing them to return to their families and access to necessary medical care.
madam president! i just wanted to ask if the catch the eye strategy is also working here and if it is, i just wanted to say that being in china you don't see how the control system works, but it works very well, that is, the citizens feel bound by what the system offers, and therefore they oppress. our job is nothing less than what one of our colleagues here has said, to show the world. it's the only weapon we have. and with respect to economic development, but the way people have been permeated with self-censorship and fear, it's not like that anywhere in the world. so i'm full of admiration for these chinese people who are brave, who have the courage to risk their freedom, their lives, their careers to stand up for this, and it's our moral duty to stand with them. there is no other solution, no other alternative.
madam president! i, following the speech of my polish colleague, would like to ask commissioner kunevej a question. i mean, can we really talk about a real, greater respect for human rights in the people's republic of china over the last few years? did the olympics, which are set to take place in the chinese capital in july, really make the chinese dissidents feel safer, that the relationship with taiwan is more civilized? is the freedom of the internet more than it was two or three years ago? i'd appreciate it if you'd answer that question, commissioner. you can't go wrong with a question.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was in the democratic republic of congo not more than a few weeks ago, and so i can speak here as someone who knows this situation not only from the documents, although they are very important. it is a truly miserable country, which as often as it has changed its name, from congo to zaire, now the democratic republic of congo, has been the scene of an unprecedented exodus of people. the documents that have been presented to us speak of 400,000 residents who were forced to leave their homes last year alone, but in total over the last few years we can speak of a figure four times higher - 1.5 million. finally, the rape of women as an instrument, a deliberate instrument of a certain policy, whether by the guerrillas, by the rebels, or by the official army or even the police. this is unprecedented. this is happening with the african union completely helpless.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have the feeling that the words 'democratic republic of congo' in the name of the country sound ironic today, because it is in this country that we are witnessing one of the worst humanitarian crises in recent years. over 650,000 people are still on the move across the country, 80% of families in just one province of kiwu have been displaced in the last five years, about 1,000 women are being raped every month, and tens of thousands of children are simply soldiers. the military marches in the congo are accompanied by all kinds of crimes against the civilian population: rape, looting, murder. sexual violence is meant to terrorize and punish the congolese people who support this wrong side of the conflict. it is so widespread that doctors without borders says that 75 percent of all rapes worldwide occur in the eastern congo alone. they are accompanied by barbaric tortures, beating with sticks, maiming with knives. many young women have been forced into sexual slavery. it is worth noting that the largest un peacekeeping force in the world, with more than 17,000 troops, is now stationed in the democratic republic of congo. what is the main form of discouraging sexual violence? it's the writing that's coming up on the walls that rape is inhumane. but what is most frightening is the fact that the un soldiers themselves have become the heroes of the scandal. on several occasions, un investigators have found that congolese girls were forced into prostitution by the blue helmets. but punishing them was almost impossible, because the commanders of the troops were obstructing the investigation as much as they could. often - and it's becoming more and more common - these soldiers, instead of being defenders, become perpetrators. it's hard to describe it as anything other than a scandal. i would like to appeal to the international community to support immediate, decisive action to end and punish those guilty of sexual crimes. i would also like to stress the responsibility of states sending military forces under the un to conduct a thorough investigation in cases of suspected wrongdoing by personnel participating in a peacekeeping mission. i am aware that the european union's capacity to resolve these types of conflicts is limited. but i am appealing for funds to be made available for the peace conference in kiev. the european union's assistance should also be directed towards providing medical, legal and social assistance to all victims of sexual offences. i hope that the european union and the un will formally recognize all forms of sexual violence as crimes against humanity.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. the text of the resolution before us contains shocking data. but let us remember that behind these statistics are the tragedies of individual women. ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the story of lumo, who was gang-raped in 1994. the brutality of the attack was so great that this young woman suffered permanent internal injuries. after four operations and years of treatment, she still hasn't recovered. i'm sure he'll never get it back. her fiance, most of her family, and society rejected her. her only support came from her mother and the african charity heal africa. heal africa runs a hospital in goma, the epicenter of rape in the congo. the hospital specializes in treating victims of violent sexual assault. the surgeons are having a lot of success, and the so-called moms are providing psychological support for the victims. they deserve the credit of this chamber for their work. but recognition alone is not enough. let's think of some practical ways to help them. we owe it to lumo and the thousands of her sisters in the congo. (laughter) (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. we're here today to discuss rape as a war crime in the congo. ironically, the congo, which is called the democratic republic of the congo, it seems that nowadays the more democracy in speech and in name, the fewer fundamental rights for ordinary people. i repeat, the only way to limit the african heretics elected to the presidency is economic sanctions on the one hand and military intervention on the other. until the european union creates a police force that will intervene not in every civil war, but at least to guard the camps, the so-called refugee camps, where the worst crimes are taking place in the congo, we will only debate, debate and debate, the debates will not end, and people will continue to be harmed and crimes.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. in a recent debate on japanese sexual slavery during world war ii, i also spoke out against the current barbaric violence against women in congo, where, according to doctors without borders, 75 percent of all rapes in the world take place. this is all the more dramatic because the violence is coupled with a particular cruelty that affects even three-year-old girls. the armed groups have used rape as a tactic to crush resistance and punish ethnic groups, not only armed rebels but also the congolese government army. unprecedented aggression and sexual violence add to the hell on earth associated with food shortages and disease. it is worth remembering that the basis of tribal rivalry was the colonial favoring of one tribe over the other.
madam president! the congo, the largest country in africa with a wealth of natural resources: water, rainforests, farmland, has been in a state of civil collapse for many years. two civil wars, tribal wars, gangs and guerrillas have killed over 4 million people. the mass deportation of the inhabitants, corruption and governmental inefficiency, the plague of aids, and the present ebola epidemic add to the tragedy of the inhabitants. how do we help these people? one of the essential actions, in addition to humanitarian aid and technical support, should be to exclude from the congolese community the leaders and organizers who are guilty of these barbaric acts, who have been and are being punished with impunity. the perpetrators of genocide should be pursued by international special forces to bring them to justice and to condemn them.
madam president! i'll say it again, our assistance to the victims is indisputable and we hope it will be as wide and as serious as possible. the second thing that struck me when i was in the congo during the election, what i learned, is that 13-year-old boys -- because they're that age, and sometimes even younger -- are taught two things: how to kill and how to rape girls younger than themselves. this is the image of the soldiers, the so-called soldiers of the faction of the counter-candidate for president mr. bemby but not only. the situation is similar in every faction, and i would therefore like to refer to what our colleague mr borrell said, that our funds and our forces should be directed, among other things, towards some kind of re-education of these young people, who, once they learn this, have only a life ahead of them in gangs and committing rapes or murders. we have to do something about them. and that may be a challenge for us to help this population change their attitudes towards the opposite sex, towards their functioning.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? the deteriorating human rights situation in egypt is a matter of growing concern. amendments to the constitution make it easier to violate human rights. under the pretext of protection from terrorist attacks and in connection with the alleged problem of arms smuggling into the gaza strip, special services are armed with laws facilitating the evasion of responsibility for the use of torture. repression for religious beliefs, arrests and long detentions without due process are increasingly common. human rights organizations such as amnesty international have pointed to the international community's particular indifference to the issue. i ask the european commission to consider effective ways of influencing the egyptian authorities to block this process.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to two aspects in this debate on egypt, one of which has certainly been raised here. namely, in this relationship - which i believe should be maintained and developed with egypt, which should indeed be our main partner in that part of the world - it should be noted that coptic christians are second-class citizens there. and that is both those who are orthodox and those who are catholic, and that is something to be aware of in these contacts. and, as i have said many times here, we should look at the situation of religious minorities in that geographical area and draw up a special report. and the second aspect is that we cannot talk about lasting peace, lasting democracy and respect for human rights in that part of the world until the palestinian-israeli conflict in the middle east is resolved. it is the source of all violence, rape and the birth of terrorism and fanaticism, which also threatens europe.
madam president! i just wanted to express some satisfaction that we're debating the case of egypt today, where we don't have to talk about regular crimes. usually on thursdays at this time, in the civil rights debates, which i usually attend, we're talking about very, very serious and dangerous cases where civil rights are being violated, people are being murdered, women are being raped. and here, we actually have some satisfaction that, in the context of these other cases, in egypt, we are intervening at a time when civil liberties are being violated, but there is no crime yet. so maybe our timely intervention will be more effective and prevent worse consequences, because as usual, it starts with restricting the media -- here we're talking about arresting journalists, restricting the right to associate, here we're talking about trade unions, persecuting religious minorities -- and then it goes to crime. there's no crime here yet, thank god.
madam president! i wanted to speak directly to commissioner dimas and at least accuse him of incompetence. i have in my possession a report signed by 100 of the world's leading scientists, submitted to the united nations, from which the final conclusion is as follows, and i would ask you to examine it carefully. i quote: 'efforts to combat climate change are ultimately futile and contribute to the misallocation of funds that could be used to address more pressing human problems.' ladies and gentlemen, there is no scientific evidence that we are able to reverse the cyclical climate change that depends on changing solar activity and has been known to scientists for at least 10,000 years from ice sheet studies. to spend hundreds of billions of euros on this is simply a sin against human civilization and reason. i charge you with incompetence and... (the chairman takes over)
in writing. – today’s debate creates a new favourable environment to encourage a wider social debate on the role nuclear energy will play in europe in the future. nuclear generation is a proven and efficient way of producing electrical energy free of greenhouse gas emissions. i suspect that the average european citizen is probably totally unaware of this fact. the public debate focuses almost exclusively on renewables and limiting the impact of burning fossil fuels. we should be honest and admit that there is a limit to how much energy we can generate from renewable sources and still maintain competitive energy prices. renewables are important, but we cannot mislead citizens by saying that renewables alone will solve the problem. while ccs schemes will reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels, the technologies are still to be implemented on an industrial scale. furthermore, they will have a substantial price tag. a responsible approach to tackling the challenge of climate change requires a balance – a mix of economically viable renewable technologies, ccs systems and modern nuclear technologies. it is our responsibility to ensure that all options are explored, none to the exclusion of others.
in writing. climate change and tackling environmental degradation were at the top of the european union's agenda in 2007. the european commission's proposals are the concrete expression of the ambitious goals set out in march last year. they reflect the leading role of the community of 27 in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. without questioning either its purpose or its ambition, it should be noted that the european community is made up of two groups of countries, divided by the recent "iron curtain". western democracies have been sensitive to environmental issues for decades. the result was ecological standards worthy of imitation on other continents. the former gdr countries, on the other hand, have been the scene of rapid industrialisation, in particular the development of the potential of metallurgy, heavy chemicals and other industries that degrade the environment. the process of aligning with eu standards has been extremely costly and it is not surprising that many transitional periods were negotiated by these countries in their accession treaties. in a short time, the countries of central and eastern europe have made a real revolution in this area. now, in the light of the european commission's proposals, these countries are facing new challenges that may exceed their capabilities and limit their development opportunities. the problem of finding a balance between environmental requirements, competitiveness and job protection concerns the whole of the european union, but it has a special dimension in the case of countries that are catching up!
on behalf of the uen group. - i'm not going to tell you. mr. high representative, mr. president, i have to tell you something. the most important and most urgent issue in relations with iran is to obtain guarantees that this country will not acquire nuclear weapons. despite all the signs, including the national intelligence estimate, we can't be sure that such a weapon won't be developed in iran. the belief that uranium enrichment in iran has been used for civilian purposes since 2003 is naive. since then, the reformist president chatami has been replaced by a representative of a much more aggressive political line. we must also remember that every nuclear programme has been concealed in its initial phase behind the guise of a civil project, as was the case in russia and india, in china and israel. it is highly likely that today's civilian program is just a step on the road to the ultimate enrichment of uranium for military purposes. the european union must therefore, for these very reasons, maintain the strongest possible pressure on iran, without ruling out a military solution.
mr president, the iranian nuclear programme remains the source of our greatest concern. we hope that the process of negotiating a solution will be continued. the european union should stand united on this very difficult issue, and we should support the efforts of the high representative and of the commission, member states and the international community, including the recently proposed un security council resolution. efforts should be aimed at encouraging iran to return to talks concerning long-term arrangements resolving the nuclear issue. we in the committee on foreign affairs of this house decided to invite mr jalili to talk and to have a dialogue. our committee was dissatisfied with the answers given, and we know how difficult dialogue is. however, the meeting with the committee on foreign affairs has shown our unanimous stand on the iranian question, and it has also sent a strong political signal to the iranian government. if we want to continue any meaningful dialogue, we have to restore credibility to our relations. our iranian partners must introduce absolute transparency to their nuclear programme by cooperating fully with the iaea. they must fully implement the provisions of the comprehensive safeguard agreement, and we should maintain pressure on the iranian government to comply with its commitments and to make them understand that this is the only way to gain international recognition, as well as to pursue successfully economic development to the benefit of its citizens. the human rights situation in iran has seriously deteriorated recently, and we should keep condemning the systematic violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially those carried out on juvenile offenders and women. as a community based on values, having at the core of our values human rights and democracy, and looking at stability and security as our highest concern, we should not and cannot disregard the worsening human rights situation there, and we should do our utmost to convince our partners that it pays to respect the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to return to what mr javier solana was talking about, namely the correct reading of the cia report on the nuclear problem in iran. i repeat once again with javier solana that only one element has been suspended, and it is highly doubtful that it has been suspended permanently. the iranian opposition claims that this program has only been dispersed to other places, but it continues. i think it's worth believing them, because it was the iranian opposition that first brought attention to the military aspects of iran's nuclear program, which turned out to be absolutely true. and that brings me to the next point, which is that it's high time that this very organization, the people's mujahedeen, was removed from the list of organizations that are terrorist organizations. the courts have already ruled on this, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has already ruled, the italian parliament has already ruled. it's time for us to do the same.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to remind everyone that the issue of the missile shield is not just a matter for poland and the czech republic, it is also a matter for the united kingdom and denmark, because the installations in these countries are to be part of this system. so let's not just talk about poland and the czech republic. the second point is this: the missile shield, the installation of this missile shield is not a magnet that will attract terrorists. terrorists target soft targets, not bases that are reasonably well protected. and finally, the third thing. the european union is not a military alliance. it is a pity that it is not, but it is, and the new treaty, the lisbon treaty, does not change anything here. so the issue of defense is a matter that is simply either the responsibility of nato or those countries that have not decided to join the alliance and want to defend themselves separately. there is obviously a need for a discussion within nato about how to place this system within the other systems that nato wants to develop, it is absolutely necessary. and remember, the 21 countries of the european union are nato countries.
mr. chairman, please! prime minister tusk's government is sensitive to the arguments of its european neighbors. the possible participation of poland in this american project must not be the subject of disagreement within the union itself. the new government in poland values good relations with the united states, but remembers that poland is first and foremost part of the european family. poland also listens to russia's objections, responding calmly despite the harsh rhetoric of some representatives of the russian armed forces. at the present time, when the european union has no common foreign and security policy, poland's final decision to place elements of the shield on its territory will be its sovereign decision. poland respects dissent, it doesn't take offense at the voices of criticism. ladies and gentlemen! respect our position, which must put the safety of polish citizens first. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! the admission of private operators to postal services is a controversial decision. time will tell if this edition will be beneficial to consumers. we must remember that in some of the newly-admitted less developed countries, civic institutions to protect the interests of competition and consumers are weakly rooted in the public consciousness. there is a danger of a disruption of the balance between the interests of capital and the consumer. the choice of the 2012 date should therefore be welcomed. i would also suggest that before 2012 an analysis of the functioning of the postal services market in those countries which have introduced this principle be carried out, with a view to identifying and preventing possible irregularities in the other countries. i also believe that the operator providing the universal service should be rewarded by the authorities for this, and not just compensated as the authors suggest. mr. ferber's years of working on the bill have sown seeds. i hope that the introduction of this new regulation will not cause him any additional problems and that he will not lose his hair because of it.
madam president! for more than 15 years, work has been under way to liberalise the postal sector, which has an annual value of more than eur 90 billion across the union. today we are on the eve of the final vote and closure of this type of legislation in the history of the union, and i congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done. the current version of the project is a broad compromise and it appears that the main objectives of the proposal have been achieved, namely the full realisation of the internal market for postal services mainly by abolishing the monopoly in the postal sector and at the same time providing a universal service of higher quality and lower prices in a sustainable manner. the current version of the directive is not as ambitious as the commission's original proposal. the work showed a clearer and clearer move away from the idea of liberalisation towards a gradual, rather assertive opening of the sub-50 gram postal market. this is evidenced by the compromise date of application of the directive, in particular for new member states and countries with a small population and area and universal service obligations. as regards the entry into force of the directive, the date of 31 december 2012 for the member states which joined the union in 2004 seems to be unnecessarily distant in time. i realize that it is part of a negotiated compromise that we accept, but which i feel may be a brake on the proposed changes. i am afraid that a period of time as long as four years for the directive to come into force will simply mean a slowing down of the changes which would have started almost immediately in a two-year period, for example. finally, i would like to endorse the call by mrs pleštinskéj to include provisions relating to blind and partially sighted people back in the proposal for a directive. those provisions are not contained in the present common position.
madam president! i also wanted to support the amendment on the rights of the visually impaired. if the european union declares to all that it does not tolerate any discrimination, then access to postal services should also be equal, and for the visually impaired, that is to say, supported.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the road to liberalization of postal services is long. this is because the european parliament extended the deadline proposed by the european commission by two years. the position of the national delegations reflects the different situation on the markets of the 27 countries. for sweden, the uk, finland, as the champions of the open market, and germany and the netherlands, who have advanced the process, the deadlines are a victory for protectionism. the so-called new countries, due to their initial statistical economic model, considered not only the original proposal (2009), but also the compromise 2011 as a threat to jobs in this sector. in the case of poland, this is around 100 000 employees of the polish post office, which is incapable of open competition in the medium term. finding allies in the public institutions of western europe, led by france's la poste, made it possible to negotiate special terms, de facto postponing the free market until the end of 2012. it's fair to say that the collective interest of the postal workers outweighed the interest of the customers. they were put to the test during the christmas summit in december 2007. the monopolist's incompetence has been exposed in the most glaring manner. the slow process of liberalisation of this segment of the european market, which began as early as 1989 (the first draft directive), illustrates the power of group interests defending the status quo over the diffuse social interest.
on behalf of the uen group. climate change has been with mankind throughout history. many prominent scientists, however, believe that man's influence on these changes is small. this is evidenced by an open letter from a hundred scientists from around the world to the un secretary-general. the european commission seems to be completely blind to this aspect of the matter and instead of taking action to mitigate the effects of climate change, it wants to tackle the non-human causes of this phenomenon. for his science fiction action, which is more fiction than science, he wants to impose huge costs on the citizens of europe. according to preliminary estimates, each family will pay an average of more than 50 euros per month for this project, the results of which could be seen in about 100 years. in reality, however, the economies of the new eu member states will deteriorate in 2-3 years. such a drastic reduction in co2 emissions would cause a serious economic collapse in countries like poland, which generates most of its energy from coal. if the eu institutions want to reduce co2 in practice, they should start with themselves. i remind you that just because of the pointless trips to strasbourg for sessions, over 20,000 tons of carbon dioxide are emitted into the atmosphere every year.
madam president! the bali climate conference was a test of whether there was any chance of global cooperation in the fight against climate change. we see that this is a matter of great importance to the whole world. the political landscape we are navigating is extremely diverse, and that requires the use of different arguments, adapting them to geopolitical realities as well. so while there is no spectacular success, more has been accomplished than ever before. we've got some very important partners. the european union has made climate change a priority. no one wants their children to have lights out in their home - to put it colloquially. in europe, many countries are not at the same level of technological advancement, which is an additional challenge for the european union. poland is a country where 96% of electricity comes from burning coal, so adapting our energy industry by 2020 could be an unbearable burden. in the interests of the european community as a whole, we should be taking greater account here in brussels of the possibilities of individual countries, without setting too high a bar that only a few can achieve. as far as reducing emissions is concerned, i believe that a policy of diversification is not the only way to prevent them. the technology of carbon-free combustion is of interest, as it allows for the reduction of gas emissions. the second possibility is nuclear power. assuming that detailed strategies are planned for the construction of a nuclear power plant covering all issues related to its subsequent operation, it is one of the cleanest sources of energy. in conclusion, i would like to say that the key to our future is to put a special emphasis on scientific research, which can lead to new technologies that are much more beneficial, more efficient for our planet than those currently available to us.
madam president! the proposed energy and climate package for the european union is a complex organisational and legislative plan to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions. the commission's ambitious plans are based on the assumption that climate change, which is undoubtedly a fact, is the result of the impact of co2 emissions, and this has not been proven or supported in bali. in these matters, any forecasts based on computer simulations alone cannot be considered as evidence. so, commissioner, first of all, we need more reliable data on the climate impact of co2 emissions, which is a gas that is, after all, a necessary substrate for photosynthesis. so is co2 a pollutant? i refer to the letter of last december from one hundred eminent scientists to the un secretary-general, mentioned earlier. secondly, the commission's restrictive imposition of co2 emission limits within the european union without internationalising the problem will slow down development and have serious social consequences. and thirdly, and most importantly, the commission has omitted in its energy and climate plans the main conclusion of the bali conference on the adaptation of societies to the inevitable climate change, i.e. to desertification, desertification, lack of drinking water, floods, etc. the eu's climate change action in europe should be primarily directed towards these objectives.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i am surprised to hear that the term sustainable development has not been mentioned once in this debate. the term was in vogue and even abused in the early 1990's, when nations agreed at the 1992 rio de janeiro conference to protect the environment in a reasonable way when exploiting it. the guys! sustainability is not an outdated term, it's not a passing fad of politicians and environmentalists. this term is trying to reconcile the interests of the huge lobby, the environmental lobby that represents us, with the industrial lobby. so let's look at the effects that bali has had from this old principle of sustainability, not just on a european scale, but on an international scale. let's protect our planet from climate change, but not at the expense of our industry. let's find a wise compromise.
i'm not going to let you do this. i was in bali with a polish government delegation. the bali conference was a moderate success. now, cop14 and cop15 are the responsibility of european countries. what is the biggest obstacle to our success? i think it's the lack of effective, accessible and affordable technology. that is what we, as the european union, should be focusing on. and then we can help ourselves, we can help our economy, and we can help others by transferring and sharing these best technologies. it will be much cheaper than continually pressuring industry to make new, ever-more drastic cuts in emissions. this requires a revision of the eu budget and a transfer of funds. let's make up our minds. the polish government is proposing a global review of the best technologies at cop14 in poznań this year. the best companies, the leading countries will be exhibiting and showcasing the best technological solutions. in order to succeed in copenhagen in 2009, we must first succeed in poznań in 2008.
mr. chairman, please! i was not allowed to speak at the last session, and that is why i wanted to protest today in the european parliament against the violation of human rights and human dignity. on our flight to buenos aires, where we were invited by american poland to share and defend universal european values with the respected director of a catholic radio station with millions of listeners, we were aggressively harassed by journalists from the private, commercial tvn station, who tried to force interviews while insulting the clergyman and the member of the european parliament with invectives. the psychological violence that threatened our mental and physical health during the 14-hour flight was interrupted by the lufthansa crew's several interventions, but also occurred after landing. i would also like to draw attention to the dangers of sharing flight number information, airline reservations and hotel reservations with third parties in breach of applicable laws, which can be exploited by various terrorists.
mr. chairman, please! after the schengen enlargement, visa prices for non-eu citizens have changed, and so belarusian citizens, for example, now have to pay 12 times more for a visa, not €5 but €60. 60 euros, that's what a medical intern in belarus makes. 60 euros is a third of the monthly income of the population. for many belarusians, this is a barrier that prevents them from obtaining visas and from visiting their eu neighbours. in this situation, when the union is so committed to direct contact with citizens and when it has a good neighbour policy enshrined in the lisbon treaty, raising visa prices is a painful paradox. the decision to raise visa fees is also a great gift for lukashenko, who says that no one is waiting for belarusians in europe. the guys! let's change that. i call for all steps to be taken to reduce the cost of visas for belarusian citizens.
mr. chairman, please! one of the main principles widely respected in the european union is the principle of non-discrimination. many documents also draw attention to the need for special protection for disabled people. the social role of sport is also appreciated, including its integration. in some countries of the union, legislation is emerging on social assistance for athletes and former athletes, in particular olympians in difficult financial situations. that's good, of course. however, it is difficult to accept that disabled athletes are excluded from these solutions.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report by fiona hall, which i welcome for its comprehensive approach, points to the considerable delays in the implementation of existing legislation in this area by member state governments and the commission. the efficiency of primary energy use depends on improving the efficiency of primary energy conversion into electricity, introducing minimum end-use energy standards, extensively performing thermal retrofits of buildings, extensively applying cogeneration by removing administrative barriers, reducing energy transmission losses, reducing friction losses. the report also recognises the global dimension of the problem, including the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. housing consumes about 40% of total energy used, and thermal retrofit means reducing its use by at least half, which is 20% of total energy used. cogeneration, on the other hand, as well as reducing transmission losses, allows for an efficiency increase of about two times. in total, therefore, the potential primary energy savings from the known technologies alone, i.e. thermal retrofit and cogeneration, can be estimated at around 25 to 30%. that's the percentage of co2 that's going to be cut. however, the implementation of these action plans may be slowed down by other subsequent european commission regulations. this is particularly the case with the restrictive co2 emission standards, which in the case of old power plants and chp plants requiring upgrading means an increase in production costs and a reduction in upgrading investment opportunities. another aspect of the global dimension of the issue is the development of common environmental performance standards both within the european union and with its partners. this is a prerequisite for both beneficial cooperation and fair competition on world markets.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. homo sapiens has so far caused severe degradation of the environment, of which he is the most important element. it's very much energy-based. in this context, i welcome mrs hall's report on the rational use of energy. i particularly appreciate the fact that you have raised the issue of building standards. the highest standards of energy efficiency and thermal insulation must be applied not only to new buildings but also to refurbished buildings. another issue is the use of led-based lighting, which is energy-efficient and durable. many household appliances can also use much less energy during operation. this also applies to waste through standby. i support tax incentives to promote rational energy use. i also want to emphasize the importance of energy education for the public, starting with children. we must do this, or we will lose the future of our planet.
i'm not going to let you do this. i congratulate you on your actions. the most important issue facing europe today is energy and its climate impact. it's more important to europe today than food production - we know that. i've looked closely, and i've seen that in the last eight presidencies, all of them have made this a priority, some of them have put it first. but if it's that important, it has to be accompanied by adequate funding for energy-related issues. otherwise, we'll just be passing on empty words to each other without any cover. we know how important the added value is if we in the european union are doing it together. it's about sharing experiences, taking the best solutions, adding them together, and then we can make great progress. i therefore ask the question: are we prepared to spend the common european money on research, technology, innovation and also on energy implementation? energy efficiency, the efficiency we're talking about here, is the most important thing in energy, even more important than renewable energy or clean coal. in the european research and development programmes, we have only a few hundred million euros for seven years in our joint programmes, with a budget of a thousand billion euros. i would appeal to the commissioner, to the european commission, to the european council, to think about this matter and to go first along the path of rapid technological development and then to set very strict emission standards.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, in the debate on the rationalisation of energy consumption, while agreeing with the main points made by the author of the report, ms fiona hall, i would like to draw attention to issues of particular importance to the new member states. 1.to close the gap with the eu's most developed countries, these countries must grow at 2 to 3 times their own rate of growth, i.e. at least 6% of gdp per year. this pace of development will mean a significant increase in co2 emissions, which has not been taken into account in the european commission's recent proposals for the so-called climate and energy package. 2.the proposals put forward by the ec are clearly geared towards reducing the use of coal, which is particularly harmful in economies such as poland, where, for example, energy is based mainly on the burning of different types of coal. the proposal that the energy sector should buy all its co2 emission rights at auction as from 2013 will cause a sharp increase in energy prices, which will be particularly felt by households. even now, when the polish energy sector is buying only 10% of the emission rights at auction, the price of electricity will increase by about 15% in 2007 and by an additional 20 - 30% in the next few years.
in writing. first of all, i would like to welcome the initiative report of mrs hall. as a matter of fact, this report comes at a time where all initiatives aiming at reinforcing concrete actions for greater energy efficiency should be warmly welcomed. energy efficiency is indeed the most effective objective providing already available technological tools for genuinely and rapidly addressing the challenges of global warming and limited fossil resources. we are now embarked plan to cut energy consumption and it is essential that we reach our goals on schedule. but of course such a plan will require enormous costs and economic sacrifices. these costs and sacrifices will be especially very challenging for those countries with the lowest budgets and less developed economies. it is essential that the energy efficiency targets will not simply worsen the situation of the weakest economies and industries in the poorest member states. therefore, ad hoc transitional measures to support the most vulnerable sectors and countries while implementing the legislation are required to avoid market failures. of course in the long run there is indeed huge cost-effective potential of energy conservation and stronger energy efficiency policy would very likely benefit the job market in the union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the amount of discards, which the rapporteur estimates can represent up to a quarter of the fish catch, is a serious environmental and economic problem. we cannot afford to be indifferent to this problem. the scale of the phenomenon indicates a huge waste of resources and a serious disruption of biodiversity resulting from inappropriate human intervention. technical changes to the rules will not produce the desired results. this situation requires us to do something much more far-reaching - to reformulate our approach and our way of thinking. we need to define clearly the objectives we want to achieve, to align the coherent instruments of the cfp accordingly and to secure the appropriate funds. the current situation of ignoring the side effects of the operation of certain instruments should be avoided. examples include the use of tacs or minimum landing sizes (especially in mixed fisheries) which lead to discards. i fully agree with the rapporteur that our approach to reducing discards should be based largely on positive incentives that motivate fishermen to seek new and innovative solutions in terms of fishing methods or fishing gear. it is worthwhile to draw on both their experience and the knowledge of the scientific community. i would like to stress that a proper information campaign will be crucial to the success of the strategy. without the fisheries community's understanding of the value of eliminating excessive discards and the general support of fishermen, this strategy is doomed to failure.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by saying that the deadline of one year for the adoption of national rules was, in fact, very ambitious. if we look into other regulations establishing legal bodies, it can be seen that the deadlines foreseen are usually between three and four years. so this is something which we also have to take into account. in order to accelerate the whole procedure, the directorate general for regional policy has prepared a questionnaire covering the elements of the regulations which have to be taken into account in the national rules. this questionnaire was sent in march 2007 to all member states via the networks of the members of the committee for the coordination of the funds (cocof). the questionnaire was also subject to discussions with member states during the cocof meetings twice last year: once in april and then in the middle of july. so where are we today with the adoption? we have six member states that have adopted appropriate national rules: hungary, the uk, bulgaria, portugal, romania and spain. in another four member states, the finalisation of the process of adoption of national rules should take place very soon: france, luxembourg, germany and belgium. of the remaining 17 member states, 15 have already launched either the parliamentary or the government adoption procedure. we have, however, two member states – denmark and estonia – where we do not have any information on the process. they are expected to respect the deadline of mid-february as fixed in the director general’s letter, which was sent to all the member states, in which we request information on the communication on the adoption of the procedures of the rules by the deadline of 14 february. in the same letter, in which we gave this deadline of mid-february to those member states that still have to inform us whether they have adopted or what the calendar of the adoption is, we also inform the member states of the preparation process for the interinstitutional eggc seminar, which, together with parliament and the committee of the regions, will be held on 19 june in brussels under the slovene presidency. we have also encouraged them to participate in the eggc expert group which was set up by the committee of the regions. on the possible infringement procedure, let me say firstly that this is a very specific regulation: it is not a directive. this is a regulation of direct applicability in all 27 member states, which requires some additional action from the member states and not merely the adoption of the implementing rules. after 14 february, when we have received the responses of individual member states – especially those whose agenda for adopting the necessary regulations we do not yet know – on which any decision of the commission to start infringement procedures will depend, we will consider our position again and see where the infringement procedure will start. in any case, we will, of course, also be carefully monitoring the application of the regulations when they are in place. but let me say – and i think this is a very important part of this whole process – that, in the mean time, the first eggc was established last monday between france and belgium, although the national rules have not yet been adopted, because this regulation is directly applicable and regional and local authorities have the right to set up the groupings. national rules need to identify the ex ante check procedure, including the designation of a competent authority that would receive the request of the regional or local authority to participate in an eggc. we have today around 30 examples of programmes of projects across europe where the option for eggc is already envisaged. there are also regions that have already signed the letter of intention. a great deal of preparatory work is going on, so we expect that the process will gather momentum once the finalisation of the national implementing rules is completed.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - i'm not going to tell you. in the past, i had the honour of being the rapporteur member for the regulation introducing european territorial cooperation groups into the european legal system. i have witnessed and participated in many debates on the new possibilities for territorial cooperation arising from the use of the new legal instrument. the arguments concerning the new possibilities were accompanied by voices, especially from member states, highlighting organisational and political concerns. in the end, the text of the regulation was able to satisfy both supporters and sceptics. member states have agreed to adopt a deadline setting out the obligation to complete legislative work at national level. member states were aware of the complexity of the problem posed by the introduction of a new type of legal person into the national system. the deadline was not met and to date only a few countries have met the task, including bulgaria and romania, which were obliged to adopt the regulation as part of the acquis communautaire. under the same regulation, the committee of the regions monitors the implementation and functioning of the european groupings of territorial cooperation and already has some interesting information on the preparation process for the creation of new institutions. the information available suggests that a particularly active role is needed from the european institutions, not only the european commission but above all the council, in motivating governments to take action that they are obliged to take and have previously agreed to. it would be disadvantageous if implementation were based on processes resulting from complaints to the european court of justice.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank members very much for their comments and also for all their support for this tool, and for their commitment. let me just remind everyone that no member state has refused to implement this tool and this is, i think, very important. it is absolutely clear that all of them have to implement. we have, as i was trying to say in my introductory remarks, tried to move towards completion and accelerate the whole process through very different instruments. certainly, today we can still give encouragement directly through your active presence in your member states and regions, which we have doing for the last year. during all my visits, all my meetings, all the conferences – not only on territorial cooperation but also on the core of the policy – we have been encouraging, we have been talking and giving instructions. we have worked a lot with regions to help them prepare for implementing this new tool for cooperation. but i think today we are in the process. i think the awareness among the member states has greatly increased. i hope that, with the recent impetus from the director general’s actions, we will have most of the national adjustments for the implementing regulations in place by june. we have to remember, however, that any programme can transfer its management to the eggc at any time of its existence, so no potential damage to the policy arises from the fact that the member states have not yet implemented the requisite adjustments. also, any project can use this tool for the implementation of the project and, as we know, we can have new projects until the end of 2013. so there is no threat here either. this is not a consolation, but i would like you also to see that the fact that we have not yet completed all the implementing procedures does not cause damage in this sense. what we see today is the great interest of other directorates general in the commission that are eager to use this instrument within the seventh framework programme, but also within the cit programme and in other policies as well. it is important in your meetings at regional and local level to remind the regions that, even if there are not yet implementing rules in place, the recent example of france and belgium clearly shows that the egtc can be established and a member state can implement and designate an ad hoc authority to play the role of the authority to which the regional and local bodies would direct themselves for information about the establishment of the egtc. concerning the handbook on egtc, interact is working on the handbook. in march there will be a conference in brussels, and everybody interested will be invited to this seminar on the preparation of the handbook. concerning the madrid convention, we should remember that it has taken 20 years so far to ratify this convention and, if i remember correctly, not all of our member states have ratified the convention yet. this regulation was renegotiated less than two years ago, and we are now in the first year of its implementation. that, i think, would be the reaction to what you have been saying. i would like to assure you that we are strongly committed, because we see the value added and we work with the regions. this is why so many of them are also so well prepared. we see all the value added of this instrument that you have mentioned. however, of course we have to remember that it does not guarantee the money. it is not a project, it is a tool that we want to use for the cooperation. but, of course, the eggc can receive community funding according to the normal rules, under the european cohesion policy. this is also important to bear in mind. again, thank you for your interest. we are absolutely committed to completing this process as quickly as possible.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen i would first like to point out that the problem of the implementation of community legislation by the member states is not new. moreover, it is tempting to say that it covers most community policies. the development of a common position at european level by the 27 countries is, in principle, only the beginning of a laborious process of harmonisation and implementation of the agreed assumptions. it is high time that member states took responsibility for this process. the effectiveness and efficiency of our work together at european level depends to a large extent on the commitment and implementation of recommendations by the administrations in the member states. cooperation between the different levels of our public administration is essential - i can say with confidence that as members of the european parliament elected by direct universal suffrage in the member states, we are ready and open to all forms of cooperation with national and regional administrations in order to improve and accelerate the process of implementing community legislation. we cannot allow issues such as the strengthening of economic and social cohesion, which is one of the fundamental principles of the treaties, to be marginalised. as is the case with the problem presented here today. although the relevant eu regulation on territorial cooperation groups has been in place since july 2006, it has not been able to be used until now due to the lack of alignment of legislation by the member states.
mr. chairman, please! the most important event in 2007 in the area of freedom, security and justice was, of course, the enlargement of the schengen area. today we can say that the expectations of easier border traffic have collided violently with reality. on the polish-german border between saxony and lower silesia, the enlargement of the schengen area is now becoming a barrier to border traffic. random people are charged with smuggling illegal immigrants, and they're held in police stations for hours like regular criminals. similar charges are made against taxi drivers in the border area. they're illegally asked to check passenger ids. polish registered cars are subject to two-hourly checks. the schengen agreement is being introduced at the polish-german border in a way that discourages people from crossing the border. this is contrary to the purpose of the agreement and requires urgent action by the european commission.
mr. chairman, please! the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the reform of the european union will bring about significant changes in the area of freedom, security and justice, which are also expected by citizens. in particular, bringing this area under the jurisdiction of the european court of justice requires good preparation, both by the member states and the eu institutions. parliament is aware of this and is preparing for its new tasks, in particular the majority of decisions to be taken in the codecision procedure. in this context, i would like to ask the council: will we start working on a common list of priorities in the area of freedom, security and justice, and when? i know that both the council and the commission have programmes. parliament, my committee, libe, also knows what needs to be done. but we need a common, effective, transparent action, a common list of priorities for the good of our citizens. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the portuguese presidency for the enlargement of the schengen area, and at the same time to call for a systematic assessment of the functioning of this system. after a few weeks, you can see that along with the wonderful benefits, there are also some negative side effects. i include among them the high, prohibitive visa fees for non-eu citizens, especially belarusians. the 60 euro visa fee they pay is a barrier to their ability to visit their eu neighbours and to our ability to implement the neighbourhood policy, which is part of the reform treaty. commissioner, we must not only monitor, colleagues, we must change.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in discussing the draft legislative resolution on the initiative of the republic of austria to adopt a council decision on enhanced cooperation in emergency situations between the specialised services of the member states of the union, it should be borne in mind that no member state has all the means, resources and technical knowledge needed to respond effectively to all threats or large-scale emergency situations. the possibility for each member state to request assistance from another member state is therefore crucial. this is particularly important in the fight against terrorism, organised and cross-border crime and in the event of disasters and serious accidents. i also hope, and this must be borne in mind, that parliament's amendments will introduce an important safeguard against the unauthorized extension of simplified cooperation rules by so-called analogy in relations with third country authorities, so that there is no abuse of, for example, dubious interventions and so that these interventions do not infringe the rights of the member states.
mr. chairman, please! because the first roll call vote on the rules of procedure was not reflected in our documents, an error crept in. i speak for myself, as well as for mr. czarnecki and mr. libicki. we voted by show of hands for mr farage's motion and we also thought that the roll-call vote was in this case, and there was a mistake, so we want to correct this verbally, and at the same time we will electronically request that our vote be changed to the motion against.
mr. chairman, please! the same thing: we here in the group of several members voted against our own convictions, namely that we should vote against this amendment to the rules of procedure, which is a decidedly undemocratic amendment and which here in the heart of democratic europe introduces a rule which gives absolute power to the president of parliament. it is not true that there are solutions that go so far in any democratic parliament, which is why we wanted to vote against it, but as a result of the mistake that mr piotrowski mentioned, we voted in favour. this is about bogdan pęk, dariusz grabowski and andrzej zapałowski.
mr. chairman, please! as my predecessor said, i would ask for my vote on the rules of procedure to be corrected. i voted against my beliefs, so i'm asking for a change. i'm against changing the rules.
mr. chairman, please! i, too, have been misled. i thought we were checking the previous vote. i am strongly against this interpretation of article 19 that puts public order above principles and laws, especially freedom of speech.
in writing. - the report voted on today is crucial for simplifying controls on persons at the union's external borders. under the new visa regulations, polish and new eu countries will have the same rights as other eu countries. this will allow citizens of countries such as ukraine to travel throughout the eu with a polish visa. i would also like to point out that this report is a sort of response to the enlargement of the schengen area, which facilitates the transit of people from third countries into the eu. at the same time, i welcome the strengthening of eu action to combat drug trafficking and trafficking, trafficking in human beings and human organs, the illicit trade in arms and terrorism. for these reasons, i strongly supported the report by michael cashman.
in writing. - i fully support the report on the european research area, which has created new research and development perspectives for the european union. there is no doubt that progress and social development, and europe's place in a globalised world, depend on investment in science and research, on the creation of new knowledge that meets the needs of the 21st century. scientific research and new technologies have a direct impact on social development and even determine economic growth, because they bring tangible benefits. that is why a good and effective system of scientific research management at european level is so necessary. moreover, if we want europe to meet the new challenges of competition in the economy and environmental protection, we must call on, and even encourage, the member states to increase their spending on scientific research systematically.
in writing. - following on from my speech yesterday on the liberalisation of the postal services, i would like to add a comment which i was unable to make because of the limited time available to me, and which concerns the sources of funding for the universal service. i am afraid that the way it is financed through a special fund or state subsidies may block the liberalisation of the sector and may become a tool in the hands of the member states to inhibit and fail to comply with the provisions of the directive. i therefore see a major role here in the hands of the european commission, whose task will be to monitor the proper implementation of the provisions of the directive.
mr. chairman, please! in recent weeks, the debate on genetically modified organisms has been reignited. polish farmers, although they could reduce production costs by introducing gmos, do not want gmos. they do this in the name of protecting european consumers and preserving the health and taste of polish agri-food products. unfortunately, they are restricted by eu regulations. each country of the union should be able to decide whether or not to introduce genetically modified organisms into its territory. if it costs the european taxpayer so much to subsidize agriculture, at least let it be safe, healthy, tasty, without surprises.
mr. chairman, please! today, aleksandr milinkievich, the leader of the belarusian opposition and laureate of the european parliament's 2006 sakharov prize, was arrested again in minsk. in addition to him, olga kozulina, the wife of aleksandr kozulin, a prominent opponent of lukashenka, who is currently in prison, was also detained. aleksander milinkiewicz took part in a demonstration organized by private entrepreneurs whose freedom of action was restricted by new regulations eliminating the freedom of employment of employees and increasing the tax burden. it was another manifestation of the discontent of this social group. in addition to milinkiewicz and kozulina, who did not participate in the march, the organizers of the march were also detained and interrogated. how many times has europe stood by while its prize winner is arrested? how many times have human rights been violated with impunity just beyond the eastern border of the union?
mr. chairman, please! last week, polish media reported the story of karolina, a young girl whose life was ruined by her ex-boyfriend. without her knowledge or consent, he recorded intimate scenes with her, and after their relationship broke up, he posted the footage online. caroline's friends and family have received emails containing pornographic material. since karolina is of legal age, polish law does not protect her, the perpetrator is unpunished. polish authorities promise to quickly change the law to protect those whose privacy and dignity have been violated in this way. but the internet knows no national boundaries, there is no common eu legislation that firstly discourages potential perpetrators and secondly punishes those who commit such acts. i call on the commission and the member states to take action against this phenomenon, which can be described as cyber rape.
mr. chairman, please! yesterday, the parliament of kosovo declared independence. thus, the cradle of serbian statehood was taken from this country once again in history. i remind you that in the middle ages the turks first took this province from serbia. today, with the help of the countries of the union and our silence, serbia is being deprived of its cradle for the second time. ladies and gentlemen, the declaration of independence by kosovo is a violation of international law, which speaks of the inviolability and integrity of borders and countries. the declaration of independence of kosovo also opens a pandora's box, because it will primarily encourage extremism, nationalism and may encourage all extremism in europe and beyond. we already have such demands in ossetia, in nagorno karabakh, in the basque country, among others. it is also an ill-considered gesture towards one of the member states, cyprus. what does he have to say about cyprus, which is fighting for unity, while we are supporting separatist movements? we should not accept kosovo's independence because it threatens the security of europe and, above all, the internal security of serbia.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. parliamentary immunity is primarily intended to protect parliament itself as a democratically elected representative institution. it protects the collective independence of the institution from outside pressure and guarantees members freedom of speech and action in the performance of their parliamentary duties. the legal basis for the immunity of members of the european parliament is laid down in the 1965 protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european communities. article 9 of the protocol states that members may not be subject to investigation, prosecution or detention in the performance of their duties on account of their opinions or voting positions. article 10 also states that, during a sitting of parliament, members shall enjoy in the territory of their own state the immunities accorded to members of their own state and in the territory of another member state the immunities against arrest and immunity from jurisdiction. immunity shall also protect members when travelling to and from the place where parliament is sitting. in the light of the foregoing, it must be concluded that the charge against mr witold tomczak does not relate to the opinion or position he took in voting while in the performance of his duties, since he was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the incident. there is therefore no legal basis in this context for granting a member the right to exercise immunity. however, the witold tomczak case also showed the inconsistency of the electoral system for the sejm and the european parliament in poland with regard to the eligibility of polish members of parliament and their loss of their mandate. we discussed this issue at a special meeting and, by joining the european union, poland accepted the obligation to respect the law in force in the union, especially that which has direct effects on the internal legal environment of a member state, and i call on this occasion for the swift unification of legislation relating to the status of members of the sejm and the european parliament, since the same act may result in the automatic loss of the mandate of a member of the european parliament, whereas a polish member of parliament is not punished in this way for such an act.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the case of mp tomczak is an example of the polish judiciary's refusal to accept the fact that poland, upon becoming a member of the european union, undertook to comply with the legal regulations in force in the european union. although the european parliament has not yet decided on the immunity of tomczak, the court has set the date for the hearing on 15 february, which is last week. such behaviour by the court is evidence not only of disregard for the european parliament but also of an action contrary to the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the polish code of criminal procedure, according to which no criminal proceedings against a member may be brought until the european parliament has decided on the question of immunity. the arguments put forward above suggest that in the case of mr tomczak we are dealing either with a court that is extremely incompetent or with a court whose aim is to convict mr tomczak of a minor incident which, in his case, results in his being deprived of his mandate as a member of the european parliament.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to congratulate mr pomes ruiz on a very good report on behalf of the uen group. i support this report in its entirety. transparency must be a fundamental principle of the functioning of the european union. i think that the parts of the report that are particularly valuable are those which concern, firstly, better information on the beneficiaries of eu funds, more transparent information on the commission's websites, which is very important, and secondly, parts of the report which stress the importance of disclosure and information on the financial links of the staff of the european institutions. the citizens of the european union need to be sure that those who have eu funds, who control the spending of those funds, act objectively and not in the name of private interests. it is very good that this case has been so extensively reported.
mr. chairman, please! the allocation of funds between the different budget lines is always the most exciting and controversial. it is hardly surprising that those who received them were especially happy and those who, with the best of intentions, did not received them were criticized. but if someone, as was recently the case in poland, receives funding from one government and the other government takes it away, it raises a lot of questions. what are the criteria for granting the aid, what are the procedures and is it a matter of substance or of the most ordinary policy? the report by mr pomés ruiz therefore calls for not only clarity and transparency in the procedures but also for the social aspects of granting the aid to be judged. the disclosure of information on beneficiaries of union funds is a basic condition for the transparency of the intentions of the european commission and the government. why, then, do some countries defend themselves against such publications? do they have anything to hide? this also applies to the disclosure of information on public officials and experts in the european institutions. the creation of a common ethical space would be very beneficial for our union.
mr. chairman, please! cleanliness, clarity are the basic principles of social life. the special task of this kind lies with us as members of parliament. we are the ones who meet the voters and we have to explain to them the situation in the union and its administration. we cannot say: 'it's not us, it's the commission'. the european citizen expects answers from meps. too often, under the guise of transparency, we over-extend procedures, we place too many demands on beneficiaries, we demand documents that are often unnecessary. in creating transparency, we need to define and divide, i repeat, divide the role and the tasks for the member states and for the european union.
mr president, i want to make two points. first of all, if we want to follow the lisbon strategy we have to know who in the field of science gets the money and what for. is it really the best, or are there some divisions between the more privileged western countries and the other, new ones? i, as an academic, would claim that there has to be more justice and evenness. my second point is that, when we give money – with a pretty generous heart – to third countries, to those that are underdeveloped and less privileged, i would like to get some feedback on how that money is used, in particular under those soft programmes like democratisation or similar, which do not produce tangible things but change minds, or entrepreneurship. we know little of how that money is used in africa, and in all acp countries. i would really claim that we have to have some more knowledge about it.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, i would like to draw attention to the following points: first, the significant increase in the amounts charged with irregularities in respect of own resources - eur 328 million in 2005 and eur 353 million in 2006 compared to eur 212 million in 2004 - and expenditure on structural operations: eur 703 million in 2006 compared to eur 601 million in 2005. secondly, a marked decrease in the amounts charged with irregularities in relation to agricultural expenditure, i.e. eur 82 million in 2006 compared to eur 102 million in 2005. this decrease is particularly noteworthy given that agricultural expenditure affects a large number of beneficiaries, farmers, who often have to cope with the complex procedure of settling the funds received on their own. thirdly, it is worth noting the finding in the report that one of the important causes of irregularities in budget expenditure is the complexity of the rules for programming and the ineffectiveness of control and monitoring methods. fourthly, the call for greater transparency in the spending of funds is also worth highlighting. an important element of this transparency is the obligation for member states to publish information on projects and beneficiaries of funds from all community funds.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments on this report. we consider the report to be very focused and constructive. i have just two remarks on an issue raised by very many of you – namely, what is irregularity, what is fraud, and how should one approach recovery? i can say that we have had one preliminary meeting with the relevant people at the court of auditors, and tried to harmonise the understanding of what is what. that will probably also help in all our future debates on discharge, and of course all the three reports – including the next one – are all very closely interrelated. secondly, i have raised this issue with the council presidency, and asked it to consider this parliamentary report during its proceedings, by which i mean to discuss this document within the framework of ecofin. i hope it will do that. we will definitely, after the vote on this report, when it becomes an official document, also try to initiate this discussion in the council, including at the level of the relevant subcommittees.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this third report is very much linked to the two previous ones. council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs or agricultural matters is a very important piece of legislation dating back to 1997, when we had 15 member states. it was essential to propose an amendment to regulation (ec) no 515/97 in the light of developments in the last decade, technological progress, successful experience with joint customs operations coordinated in brussels, and the enlargement of the union to 27 members. i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr newton-dunn, for the way he has guided this proposal through parliament. i would also like to thank mr audy, who drafted the opinion. the two committees, imco and cocobu, worked closely together using the enhanced cooperation mechanism. their excellent work has enabled a compromise to be brokered between the various political actors. thanks to the constructive approach of parliament, a first-reading adoption of this legislation can now be achieved. customs authorities apply controls on goods entering and exiting the community based upon a common risk management framework, including the use of random checks. in this context, their task is generally not limited to the enforcement of customs legislation: they also apply community law in the fields of vat, excise and agricultural legislation. i also note that the issue of the fight against vat fraud and the need for closer cooperation between the member states and the commission is strongly emphasised in the musotto report which we have just discussed. for this reason, it is crucial that customs authorities and the commission are allowed to exchange vat information. in the case of certain types of data, the new article 2a makes such an exchange of information possible. the commission regards this as the first step in the direction of closer cooperation in the field of the protection of the community’s financial interests against vat fraud.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i also enjoy seeing how things are debated in the uk. however, i can assure you, with regard to what had just been said, that this does not happen only in the uk. i have met several chiefs of finance, and several ministers, and promoted the idea of mutual administrative assistance, and can state that this reluctance is not just limited to the united kingdom. it has been viewed as a suspicious matter, but i can assure you that there are no grounds for this kind of suspicion. as an investigative body within the commission, olaf can only provide a platform for cooperation, and it is absolutely clear that value added tax fraud can only be fought in cooperation between member states and the european commission, because, basically, major fraud can only happen cross-border. so there is a real need for better cooperation, and to exchange information. i cannot comment on the last question, as to the substance of the information. we are only talking about smoothing the fight against value added tax fraud, which is a major type of fraud. that would indeed be the case, and i am very happy to hear the opinion being clearly expressed that parliament would support this legislative proposal in the form proposed.
in writing. the last two enlargements have considerably extended both the land and sea borders of the european union. this situation requires closer cooperation between member states and between member states and the commission, as well as coordination and coherence of the fight against international economic and financial crime. i agree with the rapporteur that the role of third countries should not be forgotten in these activities and i fully support the delegation of appropriate powers to the commission to provide technical assistance and training to liaison officers from third countries, european and international organisations and agencies. i welcome the proposals to improve the procedures for transferring data from another member state to third countries. i am convinced that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the reduction of fraud. i would like to draw attention to the provision in article 18a which states that the commission is to set up and manage a data collection system to help detect consignments which may be the subject of operations which are not in accordance with customs and agricultural legislation. i think that there should be a specific provision in that paragraph allowing the competent authorities of each member state to have access to the data set in question if they make such a request to the commission. in its current form, the article refers to "aiding" the authorities.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. to paraphrase ernest hemingway, don't ask who the terrorist bell is ringing for, it's ringing for you. after the attacks in spain four years ago and in england three years ago, this is a timely message. if oriana fallaci, a relative of commissioner fratini, had read the project we're talking about, she would have been shocked. this prominent italian intellectual, uncompromising and nonconformist, believed that islamic terrorists were simply islam in the lens, the quintessence of islam. as you can see, the european parliament may have a different opinion on this. it is worthwhile, however, to examine why muslim terrorists find such support among young people of arab origin born in the eu member states. i fully support in particular the recommendation that the fight against terrorism should remain a priority for the european union. it's very important that we pay attention to the propaganda of terrorism on the internet. i would add that satellite television in arabic is also a form of radical islamism promotion.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that this debate tonight has had a considerable political significance. i too believe that we must find a political solution, which is widely accepted and which is the subject of a report which can be accepted by the unanimity, if not the vast majority, of the groups. i believe that the terrorists today are undoubtedly trying to establish a new form of global dictatorship. we have had great dictatorships in the last century, but this is a dictatorship based on the violation of the first of the fundamental rights, namely the right to life. and it is clear that with violence and hatred this strategy has unfortunately become a global strategy. that is why our response must be - i would say - not just police cooperation, intelligence cooperation, but a political response in terms of preventing and removing the causes that lead to terrorism. i believe that prevention means, and many have emphasized this, eradicating hatred, eliminating the reasons for hatred without ever justifying violence, because the very serious risk we cannot fall into is the justification of violence. eradicate hatred without justifying violence. someone said something about a clash of civilizations. i think this theory leaves a lot to be desired. i am not personally convinced that there is a clash of civilizations. i am convinced that there is an internal conflict in the islamic world, that is to say, a conflict between a minority which abuses the religious message and a large majority of muslims, i would say absolutely peaceful, who want to live in a spirit of peace and tolerance. if we are to give a political answer, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the only way is to strengthen reformist and peaceful islam against the minority that is neither reformist nor peaceful. these are all political actions, not police or security actions. i have spoken about the rights of victims and i think that is a theme that needs to be strengthened. i believe that the rights of victims must be considered more than in the past, to give them concrete help, which is not - believe me, i am convinced - just economic help, but very often help to them or to survivors, to relatives when there have been attacks and murders. help them reintegrate into society after the terrible trauma they've suffered. that 's another victim 's right: not being left alone when you survive a bombing and lose a relative or loved one. someone said we need to understand the causes of terrorism. i agree with what you said, but i do not think that we should try to understand terrorist groups, organizations or methods in order to legitimize them. it's one thing to understand, it's another to legitimize: these are two fundamentally different things. and there's one last theme i'd like to bring up. i believe that the european union would have a great political role in the world if it could achieve a result that has not been achieved so far. the result is to push the united nations towards finally adopting the international convention on the definition of terrorism. we do not yet have that definition, and this creates considerable problems for us outside europe. europe has its own definition of terrorism, but as you know there are member countries of the un general assembly which still do not share either the substance or the procedure of a un convention on terrorism. i think that here in europe, if we really unite around this issue, we could do a little bit of what we did on the moratorium on the death penalty: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the subject of the european union's role in the world. if terrorism is global, our response must be absolutely firm but equally global.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 february 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr ignasia guardans cambó, drawn up on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the eu strategy to provide european businesses with better access to external markets (2007/2185 (ini)) (a6-0002/2008).
mr. chairman, please! mr guardansa's report covers all the areas of strengthening partnerships to facilitate access to third country markets for european exporters. this access is often restricted by protectionist practices, unfair competition and the creation of bureaucratic barriers. the most affected are small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the largest employers in europe. they have limited opportunities due to the lack of resources for research, new technologies, entry into these markets and adaptation of products and services to the target market. the report rightly emphasises the need for substantial assistance to be provided to them by the european and national administrations and diplomatic services. the european union should increase increase logistical activities and provide appropriate support to facilitate these businesses in third markets.
mr. chairman, please! we want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, the european union must take a clear and firm position on any case where the export interests of any member state are affected by unfair practices by third countries. in this situation, the european union's position on the blockade of polish meat and vegetable products on the russian market deserves recognition. unfortunately, it was presented to russia after more than a year of restrictions on polish exports, when poland blocked the preparation of the eu-russia agreement by law. second, the opening of the union market to goods and services from third countries should be done on a reciprocal basis, with the union ensuring that third country exporters include in their manufacturing costs the costs of complying with environmental standards and social security for workers in their own countries. without these costs, european goods will be uncompetitive on world markets. thirdly, the union market should be opened very carefully to agricultural products from third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the introduction of the single market.
mr. chairman, please! open economies, open markets are the hallmarks of the modern market economy, the economy of the 21st century, the new quality in the world economy. not all economic operators are able to cope with competition, especially competition that is not always fair, competition dominated by the big and powerful. if large and small firms can import, then large firms have a better chance of exporting. because entering new markets requires a lot of investment in promoting and building the entire logistics system. it therefore seems appropriate that smes organise joint ventures to develop exports, and in particular to promote them. some aid, state support for companies in the field of export promotion, mainly in the area of know-how, should be allowed. finally, at wto level, facilitations should be created for the development of trade by small and medium-sized enterprises. the availability of information from global market participants is of particular importance. in the area of trade, a new quality should be created, first of all, equal opportunities in market access.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 february 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on the reform of trade defence instruments.
mr president, we face a dilemma between the free trade we believe in and the fair trade that is violated. if the fairness is not fulfilled, we have to protect, at least temporarily, those who act in a just way. i would like to present the position of the polish government, which is, at the moment, against the reform, saying that, in the caspary report, it was mentioned that what we had was enough. why is it so? there is an assumption that some countries have companies based in china, for instance. and protection would mean that they were favoured more than other companies in the countries of europe, so this is not fair. i think that free trade in textiles taught us a lesson in 2005, and i think that now we should approach the new reform in a very wise way. i hope the commissioner will make every effort to run it in a good way.
mr. chairman, please! the volume of trade is a measure of the level of economic development. developed economies are characterized by high exports, but usually the road is two-way, and imports should flow in the other direction. if this movement is predominantly one-way, then there is an imbalance, a lack of partnership, a deepening of the differences in development. so we need to create some kind of rules that will set the appropriate standards and quality standards that create stability and partnership in trade. we have too often seen that we talk about solidarity and equality, when in reality we are looking after our own interests, not the common interests. too often, the promotion of exports and the possibility of investment in countries is presented without considering whether they respect the principles of democracy, human rights, environmental requirements, wages and social protection. market protection instruments must take into account elements of fairness and equal opportunities.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am afraid i did not catch the interpretation of all of the last question that was put to me. i got just the last fragment, which seemed to suggest that we had suspended the operation of the trade defence instruments and that we were no longer initiating or pursuing cases. i do not quite understand the premise of the question, because any examination of dg trade’s website will be able to yield the information that the member wants about cases that are currently being initiated and investigated and on which proposals will be brought forward in the ordinary way. i do not complain about being accused of being unduly ambitious – that is the benchmark for what i do and how i set about my job. if a commissioner lacks ambition, then he or she is going to be judged, i think, by pretty low standards. i am, however, not sufficiently ambitious to embrace straight away my friend mr schlyter’s proposal of moving from my inability to propose consensual reforms of trade defence instruments against the low cost of production dumping to a new concept of organic or ecological dumping. i think we will continue to concentrate on the former before we shift our focus to the latter, but i hope he does not take that as a sign of any lack of ambition on my part, only great realism. mr caspary seemed to suggest that he was disappointed that proposals were not being brought forward. well, i can understand his disappointment, but i am really not sure that even this parliament would have shown any greater ability to arrive at a simple consensual view about what reform should take place than the member states have been able to achieve. mr arif has suggested that my motivation is to play off consumers against workers and to play off importers against producers. i am not playing anyone off against anyone – it is just that, in the real world, people do have different interests, and they have different viewpoints and different needs. we do not yet live, i am afraid, in an ideal socialist society, where no one has a different view, no one has a different need and no one has a different interest. i am afraid that we have to operate in the real world and we have to navigate our way through these interests and needs and arrive at a fair and equitable and acceptable outcome in our attempts to steer these policies forward. i thought that ms mann’s understanding of the dilemmas that we face in this policy area was very realistic. it is not that i was seeking greater flexibility per se. what i was seeking to do, in approaching this review, was to arrive at a set of trade instruments that were not fundamentally different or changed from those that we have at the moment, but that operated within a framework that was clearly understood, that were clearly predictable and clearly reasonable and balanced in their impact on the range of different businesses, which are trading in increasingly different circumstances in the global economy in the 21st century. and i make no apology for doing that. i would just say in conclusion, really in response to mr markov: yes it is probably an accurate summing-up that the system of trade defence that we have is not the best, but it is the one we have got. i think that is a fair description of our system. the questions that i had to put and that remain to be answered were not whether our system is the best – it probably is not, but it is, nonetheless, the one we have got and it is in reasonable working order. i had to ask, will it remain workable, in the way that it is now, in the future? will it become increasingly controversial and contested amongst european businesses in the future? will it fit the changing production models and supply chains of increasing numbers of european businesses that are becoming far more internationalised and that will continue to do so more than ever before? those are the questions that i put. they have not yet been satisfactorily answered, but answers, i think, will remain to be found and we need to continue seeking them.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the debate on the safety label has a long tradition. it is the duty of the state to protect its citizens from products that threaten their health and life. thus, certain groups of goods have become subject to certain requirements according to the relevant legislation in different countries. signs and testimonies were associated with these requirements. the relevant state services exercised oversight. in the european union, the ce marking is required for a large group of goods. the ce mark confirms that the product is safe and must be affixed to, for example, a €5 or €50 iron. so adding additional plus or minus symbols to this sign doesn't make much sense. the ce marking procedures are not particularly problematic, but the problem is the introduction of arbitrary changes in products marked by manufacturers, the arbitrary marking of products with the ce mark, the attribution to the certificates received of similar products without certification processes. this is why the european union needs better synchronisation of all the institutions that are supposed to protect consumers, such as sealing the union's borders to prevent products without certification from entering the market, an efficient information and surveillance system, and a tightened and uniform system of penalties so that it is not worthwhile to circumvent the ce system. due to the high cost of certification, small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union should be supported in obtaining these marks. the uen supports all actions aimed at protecting consumers and improving the european market.
madam president! the european union is a collection of many values, experiences, historical diversity, but also of the present. we often differ not only in our merits but also in the rights and obligations which are imposed on the european institutions, on the workplace and on the citizens. we are living in a period of profound social, economic and cultural change. in this process, we see, unfortunately, some negative phenomena, but also some good, positive phenomena. the liberalisation of capital, services, goods and people must certainly be counted among the positive developments. this gives the opportunity to act, but on the other hand it is clear that capital is ahead of man and often endangers his health and even his life. we must therefore strengthen all possible control measures, we must also strengthen the ec system, not only at the border, as has been said here, but also in the internal markets, especially in the trade networks. what they do, like hypermarkets, supermarkets, is beyond human understanding today, and we should remember that. we should not only be mindful of this labelling system, but also of other possibilities that we can use to enrich the consumer's knowledge and choice of goods.
madam president! in recent years, there has been an increase in the number of products placed on the eu market that do not meet our standards. it's not just chinese toys, but pesticides, plant protection products, even medicines are counterfeit, and not only do they not protect or cure, but in many cases they are actually harmful. the three reports presented today by mr brie, mr schaldemose and mr stubb, on the placing of products on the eu market, the application of technical regulations to products placed on the market and the organisation of accreditation for market surveillance, while respecting the fundamental principle of the free movement of goods on the eu market, help to protect it and thus protect our citizens. we must ensure that, in accordance with the rapporteurs' opinions, exceptions are eliminated and that the proposed regulations and decisions are applied and operated as widely as possible. if possible, a single document should be drawn up, following the example of other regulations of this type, which would regulate the issues in a comprehensive manner. we'll avoid a lot of repetition, explanation, terminology that can happen in different interpretations. the projects and reports presented are excellent material for the development of a concise, uniform document.
madam president! i congratulate all the rapporteurs and rapporteurs on a very good and constructive work. the placing of products on the market within the union is undoubtedly a very important issue. we all remember the recent problems with the introduction of dangerous toys into the eu. these toys were not detected by the community inspection authorities because the surveillance system clearly did not work, neither here nor in many other cases. it is increasingly common for manufacturers to affix the ce marking to their products without any control, even though they do not meet any eu criteria. in addition, the mark is copied for free. these and other reasons were the basis for the commission to propose a package for the placing of the product on that market. i would like to comment on one of the three elements of this package, namely mr brie's report on accreditation and market surveillance for products placed on the market. in the case of this report, the issue of the ce marking seems to me to be particularly important. i am pleased that meps have supported the position in favour of the ce marking, recognising it as an important guarantee of compliance with eu standards and, most importantly, supporting its strengthening. an important issue discussed on this occasion was the problem of other national brands existing on the eu market. i would like to point out here that poland was informed on several occasions when it joined the union that it should not introduce any country's security features into its national system. and that's exactly what happened. we had just removed our b mark, which was the polish symbol for product safety. it was therefore important for us to maintain the union line and respect the principle of non-discrimination by including in the new legislation provisions on the non-introduction of new safety marks other than ce. i am very pleased that the council, the commission and parliament have all agreed to this position, deleting the relevant provisions and maintaining the status quo. however, i believe that we should work together towards a european ce mark and eventually remove similar marks from the market. we shall, however, wait for the commission to investigate this matter.
madam president! i am pleased that this package adopted today is a step forward not only for consumers but also for european businesses. as for the entrepreneurs, i would like to say a few words about the mutual recognition rule. i do not know if you are aware, but it is now 30 years since the european court of justice ruled on this very principle of mutual recognition in community law. unfortunately, the state of compliance by the member states with this principle, which is so important for the common market, is far from satisfactory. it has become common for traders to undergo cumbersome administrative procedures prior to placing articles on the market. as an entrepreneur myself, i have experienced these exact same burdensome procedures over the years. i don't know if you are aware, but the costs to businesses in the european union of not applying this principle of mutual recognition are enormous, and the european union is exposed to losses of the order of 150 billion euros. so if we want to continue to strive to make europe's economy strong, to be able to compete under the lisbon strategy or in the near future with india, china, brazil or other powers, we should accept this principle as universal and simply accept it.
in writing. - i fully support the report under discussion and believe that it will play a major role in the simplification and streamlining of community law. this is particularly important for the building of civil society, as the transparency and accessibility of european legal systems to every citizen gives him new opportunities to exercise his specific rights. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the numerous and repeatedly amended provisions remain scattered, so that they have to be sought partly in the original act and partly in subsequent amending acts. this requires a laborious comparison of many different acts in order to determine the applicable legal standards. for this reason, the harmonisation of frequently amended provisions is necessary to make community law clear and understandable. i therefore fully support the harmonisation of council regulation (eec) no 1210/90 of 7 may 1990 establishing a european environment agency and a european environment information and observation network.
in writing. - i support the initiative on transparency of expenditure from the european union budget. sources of information on expenditure should be transparent but above all developed in a practical way. i often hear comments from polish entrepreneurs that access to the above mentioned sources of information is very varied, which makes it very difficult for users to compare, evaluate, or draw appropriate conclusions about their own projects. the lack of transparency of eu budget expenditure often leads to a number of irregularities. in the new member states, including poland, where the experience of beneficiaries in obtaining union funds is relatively short, clear information can be very helpful.
in writing. - mr josé javier pomés ruiz rightly believes that transparency implies that information on beneficiaries is easily accessible, that it is reliable and that it can be used for further research, comparison and evaluation. i agree with the initiative to clearly indicate in all documents relating to the eu budget and/or projects and programmes managed by the commission the addresses of the websites containing information on the beneficiaries of eu funds managed directly and centrally by the commission.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr josé javier pomés ruiz on financial transparency. the rapporteur's report addresses a number of very important issues relating to the management of community finances, such as the disclosure of information on beneficiaries of eu funds, the declaration of financial links of public officials in the eu institutions, or the governance of the institutions and their annual activity report. we must strive to continuously improve both the community's financial management and the control of expenditure, with particular regard to the role of the european parliament as the institution that gives discharge for the implementation of the budget. transparency and accuracy in the clearance of accounts of financial resources should be ensured.
in writing. - i could not support the deprez report containing the ep's draft recommendation to the council on the factors that favour terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists. the report presented a confused list of priorities for the fight against terrorism. the proposal focused primarily on social policy measures. such a view does not facilitate the fight against terrorism, which also needs better border controls and law enforcement coordination.
mr. chairman, please! the most important thing for the future of the european union is the results that are visible in the lives of its citizens: the maintenance of prosperity, public security, international security. the future of the union will not be determined by the increasingly complex institutional reforms which will be discussed in this house tomorrow morning. one of the tests for the union, which will concern in a special way your country and my country, two countries on the baltic, is the case of the northern gas pipeline. this is an environmentally dangerous project, but also a political one, turning its back on the eu's energy programmes. if we want a europe of results, we cannot tolerate such projects, and that is why i ask you: how do you see the financing of this project from european funds, as mentioned by the representatives of nordstream recently?
mr. chairman, please! mr prime minister, you spoke of the european union as a global player, especially after the ratification of the treaty. we can only support this position and that is why i congratulate you, mr prime minister, on your clear and firm position against the last despotic regime in europe, namely the belarusian regime. if we want to affect democracy, human rights in africa, in asia, it's important that we take care of it first around us, in the immediate vicinity of the union. in this context too, i congratulate you on your clear position on the enlargement of the european union, and i am thinking here of belarus' neighbour, ukraine. there is a great battle going on there today about whether ukraine will be democratic, whether it will develop, also for our benefit and for the benefit of the ukrainian people, in the right way, in a fast way, democratically. our openness to ukraine is very important here in the perspective of ukraine's membership of the european union. and finally, i congratulate you, mr. prime minister, on your very strong words regarding the baltic sea, for the ecological protection of this sea. eight european union countries lie over this small sea area. it's almost the internal sea of the european union, and there's no other sea in the world that's as ecologically threatened. and finally, prime minister, you spoke about energy and climate change as the top priority of the swedish presidency. we're all behind this. europe wants to be at the forefront of this great process. it's our civic duty, it's our civic responsibility, but i feel like we talk about it more than we do. the swedish presidency will be the one to carry out the mid-term review of the budget. if we don't change our budget to become, also financially, at least somewhat responsible for climate change, for adaptation, for broadly low-carbon technologies, then we're really just going to be on the back burner, we're not going to be delivering on our top priority.
mr president, mr prime minister, it is clear that we are not building the european project for the european technocrats in brussels, but for the citizens of the european union, to make their lives better and safer. so it is only by listening to their voice that you can achieve the success you want. politicians have different expectations, some want more europe, others less, but the facts are these: the prime ministers of the 27 member states have signed the treaty of lisbon. this treaty will be a roadmap to a more efficient, more transparent and more democratic europe, and that is why it must be ratified this year. i therefore turn to those colleagues who are now calling for a referendum on ratification, despite having previously opposed the european constitution. ladies and gentlemen, do not toy with the institution of the referendum, do not dress up as defenders of democracy, because the citizens of the union will not believe you anyway. they know that the treaty of lisbon is what will bring democracy to europe.
in writing. – we sit here as a house representing 27 nations. our differences currently divide as a consequence of our approach to europe and our politics that shape that approach. our great challenge is not a new treaty which attempts to bind us by force but the spirit in our approach to the future of europe – a europe where our children and their children will succeed as they compete with the emerging powers of the 21st century. i look forward to a europe in which future generations will not only be able to travel freely but will not be discriminated against based on which geographic location of europe they come from, which language they use as their mother tongue, or how their last name is spelled. jargon like ‘solidarity’, cohesion, and integration is commonplace within our institutions – words that are empty in a europe divided between the old and the new member states, between those member states that seek individual gains in bilateral agreements with third countries and those member states that are impaired by those same third countries. the european union is lost today between bilateral agreements, conformity, and a diversity which should be our asset, not a hindrance.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on the lisbon strategy, i would like to draw attention to, firstly, in my view, the insufficient consideration of the impact of the us financial crisis on the level of economic growth and unemployment in europe. although the forecasts of gross national product growth for 2008 and 2009 provided by individual member states are lower than the level of growth achieved in 2007, the reality of this outlook appears to be worse than these forecasts. second, the united states government and the federal reserve system reacted to this situation with great speed and force. the government has offered $150 billion in support for businesses and consumers, and the central bank has cut interest rates several times, making the real base rate negative. in contrast, the governments of the eu member states, the european central bank and other central banks appear to be pleased with the slowdown in economic growth and the strengthening of the euro. the report concludes that the tax burden on labour should be shifted to environmental protection. and i strongly disagree with the proposal to coordinate corporate income taxes in the member states.
mr. chairman, please! the lisbon strategy is a document that shows the goals we should achieve in the future to make europe the place its citizens want it to be. but europe is only an island on the world map, and to introduce even the most desirable changes, such as those affecting the climate, without the major world powers pursuing similar objectives will only be to limit the capacity of our industry and our production and thus to frustrate the other objectives of this strategy. to fight the demographic collapse in europe by accepting immigrants from outside europe, while destroying the institution of the family and the values on which it is based, is suicidal, because it increases the likelihood of future cultural conflicts. it is the same in many other areas. the leaders of europe's largest countries talk about the need for trade liberalization, while promoting economic nationalism in their own countries. the european union must finally look at the situation and, while respecting the traditional rights and customs of our continent, take up the fight on the world economic markets.
mr. chairman, please! in communist poland, it was said that there are three categories of being: being, not being and planning. and we, too, today, as communist planners, we keep saying that we must strive for this and that, or we must achieve this or that, but we are not getting anywhere near the goals we set. we are caught in an apparent contradiction between, on the one hand, the ambition of the developed countries to defend their centres of excellence - in particular jobs - and, on the other, the treatment of cohesion policy as a form of charity. but the economic development of asian tigers, such as china, has shown that the best way to achieve results is to invest in advanced technologies in countries with low production costs. if we do not break this contradiction in the eu's reasoning, we will keep repeating phrases about strategy, we will keep singing full-throatedly forward, but we will stand still on the stage.
mr. chairman, please! is the lisbon strategy to be a rabbit-chasing strategy, or do we want to chase the rabbit or do we want to catch it? i think the fundamental issue is to build some confidence in the european institutions that are presenting the lisbon strategy. and in that context, i wanted to say very strongly that the fruits of economic growth should be shared more equitably than they have been. it would be very bad if the lisbon strategy were to be associated with growing social and economic contradictions. if that is the case, and i agree with some of my predecessors on this point, then the lisbon strategy will in practice be rejected not by governments but by the european union's citizens.
mr. chairman, please! our debate takes place in the context of a deepening financial market crisis, weakening growth and rising inflation. it is therefore all the more important to continue the structural reforms envisaged in the lisbon strategy. if we are to meet the challenges of globalization, we must build a knowledge-based economy, we must invest in education, in the creation of human capital. we also need to modernise labour markets, to make the flexicurity model more widespread, and to increase the labour force participation of european societies. in short, commissioners, the future of europe will be determined by knowledge and work. they are also the best way to fight poverty and exclusion. it is good that these two issues have been properly reflected in the commission's documents. the european commission can count on parliament's support in its action for development, knowledge and employment. unlocking the potential of europeans' entrepreneurship, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which generate more than two-thirds of the union's gross domestic product, will be of great importance for growth and jobs. i look forward to the commission adopting the european charter for small enterprises and taking action to reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012. mr president, the weakness of the documents presented is the lack of analysis, the lack of analysis of the reasons for the slow and uneven implementation of the lisbon strategy in the different regions. we don't know why r&d spending is going up so slowly. we don't know why labor markets continue to discriminate against outsiders. we don't know why continuing education isn't progressing as it should. finally, we do not know why the opening up of the services and network sectors is resisted. these and many other questions are not answered in the commission's documents. commissioners, we cannot just hide our heads in the sand! even the best treatment will be ineffective if it is not accompanied by a proper diagnosis. i urge a thorough explanation of the reasons for the delay in implementing the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, please! what has been done so far to reduce labor costs and lower corporate taxes? instead of tax breaks, money is used for all kinds of educational programs with questionable results. today, new challenges and issues such as environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy are emerging on the horizon of european integration. sustainable growth and employment must be understood in a broad sense, not only in strictly economic terms but also in social, cultural and environmental terms. we spend more than a third of our lives at work, so in addition to pay, there are also aspects such as comfort, safety, solidarity and individual dignity. another aspect i would like to stress is the importance of the process of liberalising the energy market. the continued upward trend in energy prices and the accumulation of climate risks mean that it is important to continue to promote energy efficiency in a broad sense. renewable energy, clean coal technology, nuclear energy, sustainable suppliers, european infrastructure are the main challenges we will face in the coming years. having achieved this common market for goods, we should concentrate on improving the functioning of the services market. faster integration is needed through consistent and coherent implementation and enforcement of agreed rules and the removal of any barriers to market entry. finally, i hope that the spring european council will adopt new guidelines for the next three years, taking into account the observations and opinions expressed in today's debate. the fundamental question is how far we will go in eliminating directives which do not serve the development of the countries of the european union.
mr president, mr minister, mr vice-president of the european commission! i am convinced that the greatest impact on the implementation of the lisbon strategy today is the problem of combating climate change. and i fully share the view of the vice-president that the current strategy of the european union in this area is to export pollution and emissions and import unemployment. we need to be the leader of this effort, because this is our responsibility on a large scale. we also need to convince others to go with us so we're not alone. we must make climate action a source of growth and competitiveness. it's possible, and to do that, we need to put more money into technology specifically. a budget review is required. the vice-president of the european commission is the best person to give such an opinion. we have to revise the budget and we've been doing it since 2009!
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the following problems: firstly, the union's priority should be to train young people effectively. only mobile, flexible and professionally trained individuals, particularly in technical fields, are capable of ensuring the union's continuous economic and technological progress. secondly, the funding of research and technological development must be conditional on specific results. the industry, supported by national budgets, should pay for these effects. thirdly, the union should develop the model of the information society, create the best possible conditions for the creation and development of innovative enterprises and open up the economy to new technologies and technical progress. fourth, european employees must improve the efficiency and productivity of their work. fifth, we must tackle social exclusion in parallel by ensuring access to employment, education, combating discrimination in the labour market and preventing and treating addiction.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i also join in thanking mr özdemir for the preparation of this very good report. i'm not going to let you down. energy security is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges facing the european union in the 21st century. this security can only be achieved by diversifying the supply of energy resources, so as to make the member states of the european union independent of companies controlled by the russian special services. the main source of this diversification could be the countries of central asia. it would seem that there is a mutual interest in this matter on the one hand, the european union countries, which want to secure other sources of energy supply on the other hand, the central asian countries, which would like to sell their raw materials more expensive. but just as there was no extension of the odessa-brody pipeline to the polish port of gdansk, there is no extension of the nabucco pipeline, the only pipeline that could transport gas independently from russia to the european union, which is much less viable today because of turkmenistan and kazakhstan's agreements with russia last year to build a gas pipeline along the caspian sea coast, because of russia's recent agreements with bulgaria and the privatization of the serbian oil industry. the implication is that because of the lack of solidarity within the european union and because of the ineffectiveness of european union diplomacy, our countries are being pushed out of this important region of the world by russia and china. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner what specific steps the european commission intends to take to implement projects such as odessa-brody-gdańsk and nabucco.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the independence of the central asian countries mentioned by mr özdemir in his report almost 20 years ago was a complete cultural change for them after many years of slavery and being part of the soviet union. of course, they used her in a similar way. it's hard to change in such a short time. their cultural distinctiveness and their commitment to tradition have enabled these peoples to survive for centuries. we should and must respect that. change and our expectations must be slow so that they don't clash with our culture and our expectations. economic ties with the russian federation have remained and continue to be strong. russian culture, science, and economy have had a tremendous impact on the development of these now independent states. if we do not build alternative forms of links with the european union, we will certainly not succeed, despite the expectations of these countries towards us. we have to start with the economy: replace russian pipelines with our own, russian technical equipment with our own, russian language with english, and then we will achieve a systematic cultural change.
madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr özdemir on his excellent report on the eu strategy for central asia. central asia is part of the road which has connected the great euro-asiatic civilisations since antiquity. in today’s global context, the ancient silk road can be taken as a symbol of the high political, cultural and trade potential of that region. central asia is the region where the european union, china, india and iran meet. there is no doubt that the countries of this region – kazakhstan, the kyrgyz republic, turkmenistan and uzbekistan – will be one of the main areas of eu external activity in the coming years. by the way, central asia is a region in which the eu and turkey have a shared interest. turkey’s cultural, linguistic and strategic influence in the region is one of the arguments for turkish membership of the eu. let me make two points. firstly, the eu should provide assistance in these countries in a perspective of human rights, democracy and education. there is a need for eu support for the development of civil society, liberal democratic change and the rule of law in these countries. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of partnership in the field of energy policy. special attention should be given to projects connecting oil and gas fields and the distribution system in central asia to pipelines connecting with the european union, including future projects such as nabucco. further strengthening cooperation between central asia and the black sea region in the fields of energy and transportation is essential for the accomplishment of the eu’s goals.
madam president! i know kazakhstan better than any other country in central asia. it's a vast country stretching between china, siberia and europe. paradoxically, central asia is a country whose territory is partly geographically part of europe: 16 million people, more than 100 nationalities and religions, a tradition and history far removed from ours, and yet the politics of this country and the aspirations of its citizens show a strong desire to be closer to europe. and culturally, kazakhstan is more european than asian. it is a country that is struggling, but stable and democratically reformed. stability in this region is very important for the security of the entire world. we should support these processes of stabilisation and rapprochement with europe in kazakhstan and other central asian countries. we should support all efforts to bring the countries of central asia closer to europe, especially as they can play a vital role in ensuring europe's energy security.
madam president! the european union should be more involved in the development of events and in promoting economic and social development in central asia. now, our influence is minimal, and the business is mostly moscow, beijing, or washington. to play an active role, we need to develop a vision of economic and political cooperation, to engage in various projects, investments, programmes that meet the needs of kazakhstan, the kyrgyz republic, tajikistan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. at the same time, all these countries should be encouraged to engage more actively in intra-regional cooperation. but let us remember that this will not be easy, because this is an area that is ethnically, linguistically, religiously, politically and socially diverse, and still under considerable russian influence. it should be a priority interest of the union to deepen cooperation with the region in areas such as energy, trade, education, infrastructure, security and regional integration. we should be particularly concerned with promoting democratisation, the development of education and the eradication of poverty, which will contribute to the security and social and economic stability of this strategic region of the world and will affect the effectiveness of our cooperation.
madam president! in taking part in this debate, i would like to draw attention to the following point: all five central asian countries are members of the osce, which means that they have made commitments to the international community to respect fundamental freedoms, democracy and human rights, although they fulfil these commitments to varying degrees. secondly, in the context of various shortcomings in the region, kazakhstan has a particularly positive performance, with its parliamentary elections in august 2007, which i was an observer at, and which, despite some reservations, were recognised by the international community as democratic. thirdly, if the european union wants to obtain alternative sources of oil and natural gas supplies to those from russia, it should seek strategic cooperation with the countries of central asia, in particular kazakhstan. it is therefore necessary to maintain and support the pro-european aspirations of the latter country.
mr. chairman, please! the adoption of the treaty of lisbon by the member states of the european union will be a great event in the history of europe and in the history of the european union. the report before us today gives parliament the opportunity to make clear the importance of adopting the treaty of lisbon. i hope it will be ratified as it was signed. i am pleased that my country, poland, is announcing its rapid ratification of the lisbon treaty. i would also like to think that there is an intrinsic unity between the treaty that is being ratified and the charter of fundamental rights. the charter of fundamental rights defines the world of values, the ideological foundation of the european union. and so it would be an act of incomprehension, even an act of political schizophrenia, to separate these two acts. the two acts are closely interwoven. i am convinced that the treaty of lisbon creates the possibility of our union becoming more cohesive. he makes the mechanisms. it is not that the treaty creates a rigid and unambiguous legal framework. it creates the mechanisms by which the european union can now deepen its integration. the treaty creates a perspective in which the european union has a political dimension. it creates a perspective in which the european union is able to create solidarity policies. it creates a situation in which the great institutions of the european union can work together and, perhaps most importantly, it creates a place for the citizen, with his daily concerns, with his will to participate in the european process. i believe that this treaty will create a european spirit which will enable us to interpret this treaty too. e ambiguities of this treaty create a field for parliament in particular, but also for all the institutions, to produce with facts what we want to build. because the role of the president of the european union, the role of the president of the commission, the president of parliament, the minister for foreign affairs, the high representative, depends both on people and on cooperation. and i would like to say, mr president, that i hope that in the future all four of these great responsibilities within the european union will be elected. and i think that even now the treaty of lisbon would allow the president of the commission and the president of the union to be combined. it would be a strengthening of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the process of european integration is not in itself a bad thing, on the contrary. if it were conducted honestly, on the basis of solidarity and a genuine extension of democracy, it could be widely accepted. today, however, the spirit of hypocrisy pervades this edifice and the european union. it is undeniable that the construction of this quasi-european state on the basis of the principles laid down in the treaty will severely restrict real democracy, which will in fact become a blanket democracy. within parliament itself, the democracy of expression and manifestation of the political will of members has been restricted. the european institutions and the european bureaucracy are taking over key powers, and the largest state is unable to outlaw a clearly fascist party that calls for a change in european borders. you are talking today about a common energy policy. why is there no public outrage against the pipeline that germany and russia are running over the heads of poland, lithuania and estonia through the baltic to give russia the ability to cut off energy supplies to these countries? that's why we don't trust your good intentions. this belief is the foundation of the future, because it can only be built on the truth.
mr. chairman, please! the lisbon treaty was a very difficult compromise for all the parties involved, and i am therefore surprised to read in this report words which are nothing but preparation for further campaigns to constitutionalise the union. i would suggest that we should rather accept the lack of symbolism, the compromise on the voting system in the council, or opt-in opt-out arrangements. i would also suggest that we accept that the convention method has created problems for the union. problems that we've overcome through traditional intergovernmental negotiations. the union does not need a permanent debate on institutions, the european union needs political will and the achievement of common, useful objectives.
mr. chairman, please! after two years of debate on the controversial treaty, rejected by france and the netherlands, a compromise was reached and a text was adopted that would save the peoples of europe. there is only one problem: everyone has agreed, and some have even accepted a text that does not exist in a consolidated form. this is even acknowledged by the rapporteurs in point 9 of the document submitted to parliament. the treaty of lisbon was only made available in the version of the treaty package. even the members of our parliament have not seen the consolidated text, let alone the citizens of the member states of the union. is this what the union's declared approach to its citizens is supposed to look like, when they are denied not only the right to a referendum but even the opportunity to read the text, not to mention the debate? is it just a technical decision, or are the creators of this brilliant document trying to hide something again? the history of the ratification of the constitutional treaty and the lisbon treaty shows that the leaders of the union have no respect for the peoples of europe and for democratic procedures. the report should therefore be rejected.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate my colleagues on their excellent report and i have three pieces of news for you today: two excellent ones and one bad one. the first good news is that poland is ratifying the lisbon treaty. the polish government passed a bill to ratify it yesterday, and it will be taken up by the polish sejm and senate on february 27. i want to emphasize that the treaty has the support of a large majority in parliament. the second good news is that the polish public is extremely supportive of the european project. according to recent surveys, as many as 83% of poles are satisfied with eu membership. with such widespread support, a referendum in my country would miss the point. remember, my colleagues who are in this room calling for a referendum are speaking for themselves. third, the bad news: unfortunately, poland maintains its reservations to the charter of fundamental rights, so the poles, along with the british, will be the only europeans who will not benefit from its benefits. i therefore call on the council and the slovenian presidency to prepare a facilitated return mechanism which would allow poland, and in the future possibly the united kingdom, to accede to the charter of fundamental rights.
mr. chairman, please! let me begin by congratulating the authors of this report, whose work has produced a text that is not only a political document but also a wise guide to the new treaty realities. it is almost as if it were a teaching aid for students all over the european union and beyond. in their report, mr méndez de vigo and mr corbett highlighted the positive changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, but also expressed their concern at the difficult intergovernmental negotiations. poland was seen at the time as one of the countries holding back the process of european integration. but a lot has changed since the last election. the new government is more open to european cooperation and understands that a strong union is in the interest of our country, poland. however, it should be borne in mind that some members of polish society share some concerns about the primacy of eu law in the hierarchy of civil law, and in particular family and property law. it takes time and more experience of participation in the european community for these fears to diminish, or perhaps even to disappear. that is why my country's government refrained from signing the charter of fundamental rights, especially as there was a serious risk that the ratification process in poland would be effectively blocked if a different decision were taken. i am very pleased that the authors of the report have understood these circumstances and have decided to remove from the original text the names of countries whose attitude would be critically assessed by the european parliament. the treaty of lisbon is the result of a compromise between the dream of a european federation and the fears that are present not only among the citizens of the new states but also in the founding countries of our community. with the failed ratification process of the constitutional treaty in mind, i think it is better to take small but steady steps than to try to make leaps that always involve the risk of collapse. reality will change very quickly. it is therefore certain that in a few years' time we will be debating a new text, a new treaty, more appropriate to the realities that will come. it is important that we can detect them in time and that the eu retains the ability to adapt to new challenges.
mr. chairman, please! i was forced to abstain in the vote on the lisbon treaty. in my language, polish, the treaty is not available. my constituents were not given a chance to get to know him, and yet i represent their views and interests, not just my own beliefs. on monday, it was decided here in the european parliament that we would vote today on a document that some of us have not had the opportunity to read in a uniform form in our own language. a stupid or dishonest person can make decisions about a document with inaccessible content. that's why i abstained.
mr. chairman, please! we have adopted an important document on the relations between the union and central asia. this is an example of when we want to share the experience and values common to europe, to persuade the developing democracies in this region of the world to do so. these countries have made tremendous progress in their economic development. however, they must take decisive action to prevent violations of fundamental and basic human rights and freedoms. they have to deal with a number of problems, including increased drug trafficking, organized crime, corruption, and human trafficking. improving contacts between our citizens, promoting cultural exchanges and creating a special scholarship programme for young people who could study in european schools and learn about eu values and standards should also be a key issue. we wish our partners in kazakhstan, the kyrgyz republic, tajikistan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan every success on their journey towards prosperity, freedom and democracy, so that in the future they can help others and share their achievements.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote on the lisbon treaty report because it went far beyond what was agreed at the eu summits in brussels and lisbon. the lisbon treaty was a very difficult compromise for all parties involved. going beyond this compromise - as seen in the criticisms of the lack of eu symbols, of agreement on the voting system in the council on opt-in, opt-out clauses, or the charter of fundamental rights - is politically damaging to the ratification process. nor can i support legislation that is preparing the ground for further campaigns to constitutionalize the union.
in writing. - in the final vote on the report by richard corbett and íñigo méndez de vigo (a6-0013/2008) on the 'lisbon treaty', i abstained from voting. i justify this by the fact that the conclusions drawn from this report go significantly beyond the framework agreed at the european union summits in lisbon and brussels (13 and 14 december 2007). the compromise reached at that time was the result of certain concessions by all the parties concerned. i therefore consider that the explicit criticism of those findings in certain passages of that report does not serve the process of developing solutions acceptable to all the parties to the compromise. this applies, for example, to opt-in and opt-out clauses, the charter of fundamental rights, the voting system in the council and the symbols of the union, as well as to the wording which leads to a return to the rejected idea of a 'european constitution'.
in writing. - i voted against the lisbon treaty with conviction, because it violates the principles of democracy. it is a treaty full of falsehoods and disregard for the voice of the european peoples. it's a treatise on euphemisms. despite the french and dutch rejection of the constitution, an expanded version of it is being introduced in a disguised manner, without taking their votes into account. thus, the word "constitution" was replaced by "treaty". the president of the union was named president, minister for foreign affairs high representative for international affairs. it is pure hypocrisy to introduce a new "superstate" over the heads of societies at any cost. the union was founded on deep economic cooperation. i also voted against because this parliament has rejected the possibility of resorting to the highest form of democracy, the referendum. and such an important constitutional act should be adopted in this form. it is also a scandal that this parliament has rejected amendment no 32 which requires that the result of the irish referendum be respected. we have also voted on a document which we do not yet know, because there is still no uniform text of the treaty in the languages of the member states. this is a controlled democracy, ignoring the citizens, denying them the right to vote. i want nothing to do with that kind of democracy, and the mocking comments made by chairman pottering after the vote show that democracy in this parliament, as in europe, is dying.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr richard corbett and mr inigo mendez de vigo on the treaty of lisbon. the report rightly emphasises that the changes introduced by the new treaty will make the eu's rules of operation more democratic and fit for the future development of the community. the role of both the european parliament and national parliaments and the introduction of the charter of fundamental rights are important elements. in addition, the introduction of a more efficient way of taking decisions within the institutions of the european union should be emphasised.
in writing. - the lisbon strategy resolution contains many important provisions for businesses and consumers. the small business act is particularly noteworthy and worthy of support, as it presents the philosophy of 'think small first'. i hope that this initiative will be implemented effectively and quickly, with the active participation of stakeholders. it goes without saying that small and mediumsized enterprises play a vital role in economic life and that it is important for the future of europe to give them a special, privileged status. i would also like to draw attention to the protection of intellectual property rights. we all know that the big problem of some european countries, compared to the united states, is the patent system, which is extremely inconsistent in europe. this, of course, in some countries, is hampering innovation and research on a large scale, to the detriment of the continent as a whole. it is therefore important to develop common proposals and solutions to the current situation so that all eu consumers can benefit from new and modern products at a price corresponding to the purchasing power of average consumers.
in writing. - i abstained on the resolution on the lisbon agenda. i was somewhat surprised to read especially paragraph 3. well, it tells us that to ensure the success of this agenda we also need to strengthen economic growth in europe. that's the point, one word: too. i've always believed that growth is the goal, that it's about catching up with some countries, not being caught up by others. a careful reading of the draft resolution shows that this is not just a mistake, it is a confirmation of the rule. the text contains statements which could easily have been included in dozens of other resolutions. and these are often the issues that are the definite brakes on growth. as a result, we have a wish list that we can make on many occasions, not just when we are discussing the lisbon agenda. with one exception, however, progress has been made in implementing the lisbon agenda. this part of the resolution is very important, but unfortunately the conclusions are not optimistic. because we still don't know how to measure this progress, if there is any. there is still a lack of proper monitoring. it's what makes our work so lacking in reference points. we're having some problems with the evaluation, we don't know if we're moving forward or standing still. i think that is what we as a parliament should be working on first.
in writing. − in the seventh year of the lisbon strategy, the european parliament's assessment of the current economic situation in the european union takes account of the new circumstances that will characterise 2007-08. in the light of the experience of last year and this year, namely the uncertainty and increased risks in financial markets, it is appropriate to pay particular attention to the macroeconomic stability of the community. the euro area's rigorous and, in particular, strict compliance with its rules is essential. however, in a deregulated global financial system, the primary responsibility falls on national governments to ensure that public finances are balanced. this leaves much to be desired, even in countries that consider themselves 'drivers' of integration, especially when they can count on a discounted rate from the european commission. the long-standing need is for a genuine liberalisation of the eu market, especially the services market, which would create more real competitive pressure and ultimately remove protectionist barriers that today are not based on statutory provisions, as more hidden ways have been found to make life more difficult for foreign competitors. the unfinished process of building the european union's internal market means that the potential of entrepreneurship and creativity in the community of 27 countries is not being fully exploited. the cost of this failure is estimated at eur 150 billion. these are sufficient reasons for the issue of the liberalisation of the common market to be given top priority in reports assessing the state and growth prospects of the european economy.
in writing. - i supported mr ozdemir's report because one of europe's most pressing political problems is to ensure the eu's energy security. diversifying the supply of energy resources to the eu is the only solution to independence from russia, and here the eu's common policy towards central asia is the key solution. the lack of a common eu policy in this regard is being aggressively exploited by russia, with the passive attitude of most eu member states. projects such as the extension of the odessa-brody pipeline to gdansk and the nabucco gas pipeline are now unrealistic because of the actions of russian companies dominated by the secret services.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. community legislation is designed to implement the various policies of the union. its implementation should be a priority for all member states, which, subject to simultaneous control and monitoring by the commission, will guarantee its desired positive effects for the citizens of europe. in recent years, the total number of infringement proceedings initiated by the commission has steadily increased, reaching almost 2700 infringements in 2005. the subsequent years, despite the enlargement of the union by 10 new member states, did not lead to an overall increase in the number of infringements. there is therefore a danger that this could be due to the failure to register complaints or to administrative problems of the institutions responsible for dealing with infringements. the report is particularly commendable for including in its content detailed investigations into cases of petition-related infringements and for indicating the willingness of the various directorates-general to cooperate widely on these issues. the commission's comprehensive communication 'making europe work' and 'applying community law' should also be welcomed. however, the commission still has to clarify the measures to be taken in the event of infringements, the length of the infringement procedure, the limited application of article 228 of the treaty and the assessment of the application of the priority criteria. the new working method proposed by the commission in 2008 as a pilot project involving some member states is also to be commended, in order to make the current procedures more efficient. however, it is concerned that one of the stages of the procedure, namely referral to the member state concerned, which is primarily responsible for the incorrect application of community law, may lead to a weakening of the commission's role as guardian of the treaties. community law should address the problems of citizens in such a way as to provide quick answers to their questions and complaints, thereby facilitating the understanding and exercise of their rights and, as a result, reducing the number of infringement proceedings. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs frassoni on a very well-prepared document.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to join in congratulating mrs frassoni on her excellent report. i also welcome the fact that, according to the statistics provided by the european commission on the number of infringement procedures, the accession of the ten new member states has not affected the number of infringements recorded. however, statistics do not give a complete picture of the situation. one of the most important mechanisms for checking the reality of the application of european law is the system of preliminary rulings, the purpose of which is to enable national courts to ensure a uniform interpretation of the application of european law in all member states. the main problem with this procedure is the waiting time for the court's reply, which is still very long, about 20 months. the main reason is the time it takes to translate, which is about nine months. it is worrying that in many national parliaments we hear voices calling for budget cuts specifically for translation. the european commission's recommendations to member states and candidate countries are based on the assumption that eu law will be effectively implemented when adequately qualified staff are employed and adequate resources are set aside. i don't necessarily agree with that. the number of staff and the size of the resources available are not the right metrics. it is also necessary to be determined and committed to implementing european law. the successful completion of the tasks facing the member states and candidate countries requires three factors: knowledge, competence and readiness. the first factor, having knowledge, is not a problem today. the second factor, the capacity to implement the acquis, involves allocating the necessary resources and hiring additional staff. this is the aspect which the commission is putting the greatest emphasis on today. the third factor, the willingness of those who are to introduce and apply european law, is the most underappreciated. the readiness to apply community law in practice depends on the institutions and the system of procedures, incentives and restrictions. the success or failure of effective implementation of eu law will ultimately be determined by the appropriate institutional model. knowledge and means are not everything. it also takes a good will to act.
mr. chairman, please! the implementation of community law by the individual member states is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. therefore, monitoring and eliminating deviations is the aim of many activities. the national controls and the publication of the results of the controls would enable citizens to participate in the implementation of eu legislation in the states. however, poland continues to apply additional national vat taxation, despite the sixth directive and court rulings. the same applies to double taxation of income tax. there are known cases of excise taxation of cars purchased by polish citizens in eu countries and, despite the judgments of the court of justice, the delay in the recovery of the charge wrongly calculated and paid. and it is particularly curious that our citizens have been held in pre-trial detention for many years without convictions. the polish people are eagerly awaiting the european commission's response to the examples given and the curtailment of our government's illegal activities. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs monice frassoni, but i regret that this report is a bit out of date, and it would be good if it were 2007.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have taken on a huge responsibility by recognizing kosovo's independence. responsible for maintaining peace and building effective state institutions in kosovo. there is no scenario that would allow for a quick withdrawal of international forces. any solution, whether it is to leave kosovo in serbia or to support independence, carries the risk of conflict and ethnic tensions. but serbs must realise that there is no going back to the situation before 1999. any attempt to destabilize them will only bring them losses. serbia can win support for its cultural and social rights claims only by cooperating constructively in the region. the failure of kosovo's independence will mean a return to the idea of a greater albania and an inevitable war. such a war would bring political losses, primarily to serbia. therefore, it is also responsible for avoiding this scenario and for stabilising the region.
mr. chairman, please! the unilateral declaration of independence by kosovo presents the international community, and in particular the european union, with a difficult and responsible task. this event significantly complicates the situation both in the member states and in countries with which the union cooperates and strengthens relations, such as ukraine and georgia. the recent demonstration meeting of russian foreign minister sergei lavrov with the leaders of abkhazia and south ossetia, two rebel republics on the territory of georgia, is a harbinger of the possible behavior of the russian government. even before kosovo declared independence, the kremlin warned that it would treat its recognition as a precedent to be applied to loyal separatist regimes. the balkans are considered to be one of the most hot spots in the world for a reason. the declaration of independence could thus destabilise bosnia and herzegovina, for example, and the serb-populated provinces could want to secede. the situation requires the international community to take particularly thoughtful and responsible decisions, but the consequences of these decisions will be freedom and peace.
mr. chairman, please! in today's debate on the serbian province of kosovo, i wanted to protest first of all against the illegal actions of the albanian authorities, which are inspired by the united states. the reaction of the european union and some member states to the dismemberment of the serbian state is outrageous. the european union is supporting the albanian separatists and at the same time deciding to launch a questionable mission in kosovo, contrary to un resolutions. it is an outrage that the eu authorities want to be a party to this balkan conflict without having the right or any mandate to do so. what right does brussels have to interfere in the affairs of a sovereign state once again, in violation of international law? what happened in brussels on monday reminds me of the munich conference in 1938. today, the international community is silent and allows the interests of berlin and washington to be pursued. for the first time since 1945, borders in europe are being changed on ethnic grounds, in violation of international law. a domino effect and further conflict due to the actions of albanian separatists is inevitable. it does not take much imagination to see how the eventual independence of this serbian province could affect nationalist strife in other parts of europe and the world.
mr. chairman, please! the recognition of kosovo's independence is the opening of a pandora's box in europe. this is a dangerous precedent that violates international law, and in particular the resolutions of the united nations, which states unequivocally that kosovo is an integral part of serbia. today, with international approval, the partition of one of the european countries is being carried out. i say this as a member of parliament from a country that has already experienced the dismemberment of its history. there can be no consent for this. this is a dangerous precedent, because south ossetia, abkhazia, among others, have followed in the footsteps of kosovo, which has already declared its intention to secede and declare its independence. what about cyprus, which is striving for unity at all costs? the european union has a duty to ensure that the cypriots are not left behind in the process of democratization. first of all, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of kosovo's independence is a gift to the progressive islamization of europe, and i don't think that's what we all wanted.
the chairman of the council. − first of all, i would like to thank the parliament and the members who supported the council's position. i understand that there are of course different views, and that is normal in parliaments, but it seems to me that the european union has received support at today's sitting. i'd like to answer a few questions that have been asked. first of all, the question of how we imagine the future of command and responsibility, i am thinking of course of the institutions in kosovo. it is clear that the european union has sent a special representative to kosovo. the kosovo parliament agreed to the terms of the ahtisaari plan in its declaration of independence at the outset. these provisions of the comprehensive plan will be incorporated into the new constitution of kosovo and into the laws of kosovo. the european union special envoy will accordingly be tasked with overseeing local government and ensuring the fulfilment of the obligations entailed by the new status. the eusr will become the high representative of the international community for civilian affairs once the international civil service has been established. and, of course, he'll be the political director of eulex. i would like to say that the european union has certainly done a lot in these days to calm the situation down and to provide kosovo with the support it needs at the outset. in addition to the decisions already mentioned, in addition to the mission decided upon by the council a few days ago, i would also like to mention yesterday's visit to pristina by the secretary-general and high representative of the council, javier solana. i'd like to quote just one line from his speech. he said: "i would like to convey that the sentiment, the joy, that you spread so respectfully on the streets over the last days now has to be converted into positive and constructive energy in order to move society forward. that is to say, we too want, i think we all want, for the most part, that our friends in kosovo are prepared to convert or transform the energy that they have shown these days into a rational activity that will ensure a proper european future for kosovo. and not just kosovo, but serbia, of course. i think that in today's speeches, including in the contributions of members, there was a lot of talk about the fact that serbia deserves to continue on its path towards integration into the european union, and as i listen to the speeches of various representatives here in this parliament, i cannot help but try to imagine that in the future we will hear serbian here as well. and i hope the albanian language too. and i hope, of course, that other languages of countries that want, believe me, very much want to be members of this parliament and the european union. however, in the light of the comments we have heard from some of our spanish friends, i am not saying that it was difficult to coordinate the text of the decisions in the european council on general affairs and external relations, but we were able to come together with our spanish colleagues and our cypriot colleagues to agree on a text which is in fact a text of unanimity, a joint decision, a joint thought. in conclusion, mr president, i cannot but agree with the speech by my slovenian colleague, mr kacin, when he says that the serbs in kosovo should also understand kosovo as their homeland and take ownership of kosovo. because kosovo is, of course, their country too, and any delay in the participation of kosovo serbs in the governance of kosovo could be bad. i would like to say that i am encouraged by these discussions and that i would like to thank you, mr president, and the audience here, or the members of the european parliament, for your constructive words.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank the house for a most responsible debate. it was widely recognised today that the european union has indeed left no stone unturned in seeking a negotiated solution, but this has unfortunately been in vain. consequently, we are now bound to steer the process to its conclusion. many of you also underlined the importance of not isolating serbia, and especially of reaching out to the younger generation in serbia. i fully agree, and am happy to inform you that we already have a visa facilitation agreement in force with the countries of the western balkans, including serbia. this means easier procedures when applying for visas, and exemptions for certain groups like students and business people. i am also happy to inform you that we have already started a special dialogue on visa-free travel, which is very important for ordinary serbian citizens and other peoples of the region. we did this with serbia in january, and my colleague commission vice-president frattini is in fact in skopje today, and in podgorica tomorrow, to launch dialogues with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and with montenegro. but in order for that to succeed we need determination and unity throughout the institutions, including the council, in terms of ministers of the interior who have strong powers in this area. i count on your support in this regard, so that we can make real progress, united on this matter. à propos de l'unité européenne, le fait que l'union ait pu maintenir son unité sur un sujet aussi délicat et controversé est vraiment d'une importance majeure. je dirais même que la politique étrangère commune a passé avec responsabilité l'un de ses plus sérieux tests depuis sa création. je voudrais féliciter la présidence slovène de cet aboutissement, qui exprime votre engagement profond pour l'avenir européen des balkans occidentaux. je veux aussi noter avec beaucoup de satisfaction la volonté de la future présidence française de soutenir pleinement la perspective européenne des balkans occidentaux. donc cette année 2008 sera vraiment une année particulièrement importante pour le cheminement européen des balkans occidentaux.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the seventh un human rights council.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the united nations human rights council is one of the most interesting areas in the field of human rights for the european parliament. we closely monitor the activities of that council, and the european parliament sends its missions to geneva twice a year. i would like to make three remarks. first, i would like to pay tribute to the positive achievements of the council presidency and, at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of support from the european union and, equally, of candidates with high standards of integrity for the elections of the new president of the council, to be held on 23 june 2008. second, i would like to stress that special procedures are at the core of the united nations human rights machinery, playing a critical role, especially in the human rights council, civil society and democratic states. in particular, the eu states need to monitor and pressure council members to fulfil their responsibilities to promote human rights. the european parliament has to condemn the council decisions not to renew the mandate of the special rapporteurs on belarus and cuba. we should welcome the renewal of the country mandates of the special rapporteur on sudan and of the independent experts on liberia, haiti and burundi. third, much legitimate criticism of the council centres on its disappointing treatment of specific country situations. particularly one-sided international sympathy for the palestinian cause and the agonised efforts of islamic states led the council to address the middle east conflict, but there was repeated criticism of only one state – israel – ignoring violations by hezbollah and some palestinian factions. the challenge is to build the political will for the council members to effectively address such a situation in a just manner.
the chairman of the council. - i would just like to thank all the members who took part in this debate and presented their views, which will undoubtedly help the presidency of the council in its preparations for the seventh session of the human rights council. i would like to stress in particular how much i agree with what the honourable member, mrs andrikienė, has said about the need for the european union to act in the human rights council with one voice, with one voice. i would also like to point out that the presidency is also looking forward to good cooperation with the european parliament delegation, since the role of the european parliament in the promotion and protection of human rights is undeniably of the utmost importance and we therefore want to cooperate as closely as possible with this high chamber. i should like to conclude by saying that the seventh session of the human rights council will open with a ministerial meeting, at which the president of the general affairs and external relations council, mr dimitrij rupel, will also speak on behalf of the presidency of the council of the european union. a number of other high-level representatives will also be involved, perhaps including the secretary-general of the united nations.
member of the commission. − mr president, the european union is a very important body that has to go in the right direction and lead the human rights council in that direction. the council has yet to prove itself as an effective human rights organ within the united nations; that much is clear. however, as i said before, it is too early to pass a final judgment. indeed, to do that at this stage might even hinder its future progress. that is why it is important that the human rights community continues to support the human rights council, albeit with a critical eye. in that vein, i am pleased that a delegation of the european parliament will be attending part of the seventh session to assess its work at first hand. like ms andrikienė, i think that the european union will have to strive to speak with one voice on this issue. voting patterns of eu members on the council are very harmonised, and the more harmonised they are, the more important our voice will be. concerning the criteria for membership, so far it has proved impossible to draw up such criteria. however, the pledges on human rights commitments will be important steps towards more responsibility for the candidate countries and, as i have said before, this is an important step. concerning the special procedures, the eu is fighting actively to extend existing mandates and establish the new ones we deem necessary. finally, let me say a word on belarus and cuba. the council can be criticised for not continuing the mandates for those countries, but this was a compromise made necessary to save many of the other country and thematic mandates that are currently being reviewed. similarly, for instance on sudan. it is regrettable to lose the mandate of the expert group on darfur, but this was unfortunately unavoidable in order to save that of the special representative on sudan. therefore, in order to achieve consensus, the european union sometimes has to be prepared to make difficult compromises. but, again, on the whole, we are a very strong motor and body in this area, and we have to go on working to ensure that the human rights council really works and goes in the right direction. the european parliament is a very, very strong tool to help us on that path.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 21 february 2008.
the chairman of the council. - regarding the problem raised by mr allister, who mentions cases which are of course reprehensible and where action is needed, i should like to point out that the directive i have mentioned already contained, before the amendment, a ban on advertising which is harmful to health, as well as a ban on messages which are likely to cause physical or moral harm to children. i can reasonably interpret these provisions to cover the cases that have been mentioned. i should also mention that the amendment to the directive was published last december and that the member states have two years to transpose it into their national legislation. with the telecom package, i'm having a hard time answering that question. this question would require a slightly more in-depth analysis as to whether changes are necessary. but this issue is, of course, treated. as is known, the telecommunications package is currently under consideration. your question will be brought to the attention of the council. i have no doubt that if any changes are needed, they will be made.
the next item is the report by françoise castex, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the demographic future of europe (2007/2156 ((ini)).
thank you very much. thank you. and on behalf of the fathers, thank you for this talk. we are continuing the debate, and mr carlo fatuzzo will now begin the debate on behalf of the political groups, on behalf of the european people's party. three minutes, please.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as the rapporteur rightly points out, the demographic situation depends on natural growth, life expectancy and migration flows. i would add a fourth cohesive element to this dynamic, which is human relationships and the political will that influences them. man is a particularly demanding and difficult animal, which not only reproduces when the time comes, but also must be provided with the right conditions. the 20th century, and especially the years following world war ii, did not inspire man with any particular optimism or procreative zeal. as if the world didn't seem interesting enough for people to call their children into existence. today, it is time to understand the reasons for europe's pessimistic demographic future and start to make amends. immigration, the report notes, is not a sufficient solution. first of all, the conditions must be created for europeans to grow naturally. i support virtually all the solutions proposed by the rapporteur, with two being the most important. the family must be given greater care than ever before, especially women who not only devote their time to motherhood but also take care of sick and elderly family members. this work requires a special professional status with a salary. in addition, every child must be provided with a place in a nursery and kindergarten after the mother returns to work. and finally, demography is a political problem among other things, and we are politicians, we are able to reverse the bad state of affairs.
mr. chairman, please! the draft resolution once again draws attention to the demographic threat to europe. the responsibility for the future of our continent, for its social and economic development, requires that we pay particular attention to this issue. a fertility rate of about 1.5 is too low. to guarantee a simple substitutability of generations, this ratio would have to exceed 2.15. the promotion of family patterns with few or no children, the lack of fair and stable economic conditions for families (caused by unemployment and the lowering of employment standards, especially the impermanence of employment), and the penalty for maternity imposed on women by pension systems have undoubtedly contributed to the risks. the ageing of the population, which is largely due to the positive phenomenon of longer life spans, but also to the deterioration of the relationship between the number of people in employment and the number of pensioners, is causing serious financial problems for pension systems. in this situation, action must be taken to change. however, i will not agree with the report's belief that migration will be a major factor in solving this problem. studies carried out in poland by the market economy research institute indicate that the positive population boost achieved by this method is only 2-3%, which is far too low. and this method also generates social problems, which we see today in denmark, france and germany. the integration process is a long one. i would like to draw attention to the suggestions made in the report on the rights of economic migrant families. the amendments i have tabled are due to the fact that it is not clear whether the family is one of the immigrant's country of origin or the host country. i am referring in particular to the possible polygamy and the resulting legal and economic consequences for the social benefits for these families. i'd also like to... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the word ‘integration’ has been used 24 times in this report. the proposed integration of immigrants out of the national taxpayers’ pocket has not taken into consideration one important aspect, namely religion and civilisation. militant secularists of socialist origin avoid this subject, although the muslim population is shooting up. by 2025, one in three people living in western europe may, or will, be muslim. the archbishop of canterbury has recently suggested that europe should adopt sharia law, which the president and the establishment of this parliament would probably call ‘multiculturalism’. this brings a confused debate to the fore that has been developing over the ways and possibility of integrating and assimilating the new immigrants flooding into the continent. does assimilation mean that immigrants should absorb and be absorbed into european civilisation, or does it mean that they should join the descendants of old european nations to create some sort of new european man? or is the creation of a common civilisation either undesirable or impossible? although europe has always had its full share of varying cultures, it has also had a mainstream christian culture or civilisation, so to speak, in which most of its people, whatever their identities, have shared. for almost 20 centuries, this civilisation has been the central and the lasting component of the european legacy. one has to ask: would europe would be the europe it is today if, in the seventh and eighth centuries, the ashes of ancient rome had been conquered and settled not by christian societies but by muslim and any other? the simple answer is no. it would not be europe. it would be egypt or libya. fortunately, there are people who will not accept cultural rights as a cover for sharia. religion should be protected from the state – the european state, in particular. it is only christianity that can integrate other religions into a shared european project, by acknowledging what secular ideologies cannot. i believe that europe can do that and europeans should recommit themselves to christian culture and the traditions and values of liberty, equality, law and individual rights that, for over 20 centuries, have been embraced by europeans of all nations and that have been the source of prosperity and moral leadership in the world. this report can integrate nobody and nothing. it is a symbol of dead men walking. it might create a continent of zombies, unaware of their national identities.
mr. chairman, please! the report under discussion is proof of the union's impotence even in assessing the situation. we're on the demographic titanic, and no one's even ordered an orchestra yet. and we're holding these crucial debates in the evening hours, when the ratings are lowest. we have a demographic crisis in the union. while the report talks about change, the thesis of paragraph f is in clear contradiction with the thesis of paragraph 1. they talk about female infertility, but what about male infertility? they talk about infertility in couples, as if homosexual couples could be fertile. they talk about infertility, but they don't talk about the fact that the main reason for the decline in the population in europe is abortion. in the last half century, some 75 million abortions have been performed in the 27 member countries. if it weren't for this, the population of the european union would be 15% higher and we wouldn't have the crisis. we in the union talk all the time about rights, but never about obligations, including obligations towards the future. it's not like it's anything other than adult childishness. and hence the crisis: children cannot have offspring, and the elderly cannot have offspring, and without offspring, there is no future.
mr. chairman, please! when i was in primary school, 100 million europeans were under the age of 14, just like me. when i am 87 years old, there will be only 66 million children of that age in europe. one in four europeans is now over 65 and in 40 years' time, one in two will be. and remember, these are not just statistics. this alone will cause a huge increase in public spending and benefits. we have a demographic crisis in europe, including my country. a hundred years ago, one in six or one in seven people on the planet was european, and in 40 years, one in 20 people will be on our continent. what do you do? promote motherhood, create economic incentives, including tax incentives, for having children, support large families, but of course also treat infertility, for example. if we are complaining today about the immigration problem, the root of the problem is the demographic decline of the european nations.
the demographic future of europe is a long-term problem. europe is clearly aging. we are facing a shrinking working age population, a declining competitiveness of the economy and a destabilising funding of social welfare and pension systems. the great enlargement of the european union and the labour migration of people from the new member states to the old member states have alleviated this problem in western europe, but have not solved it. the ageing process in europe continues and strong action is needed, including, inter alia, the protection of human and labour rights, the promotion of family policies, health and social care, and the improvement of human resources management, including that of immigrants. these actions will only be effective if the processes of globalisation do not destroy the individual and the family and if people, not capital, are truly the supreme value.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in this debate, i would like to draw attention to the following problems, the main causes of low birth rates in europe, namely, first, the difficulties in reconciling family and working life, i.e. the lack of childcare facilities for young children, the lack of socioeconomic support for families and the lack of employment for women. secondly, the uncertainty of young people's employment situation, the volatility of jobs, the late access of young people to employment, and the high cost of housing, which is therefore unaffordable for young people. support for families is needed through tax systems, mainly personal income tax and vat structures, the first best option being the solutions adopted in france, for example the family allowance, which allows for a significant reduction in the tax burden for families raising children. the second is the need for preferential tax rates on children's products. thirdly, it is necessary to maintain the principle of solidarity between generations in social security, i.e. the principle that the working population bears the costs of benefits, pensions and health care paid to the non-working population, i.e. children, young people, the disabled and the elderly.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. according to demographic projections, the average age in europe will increase from 39 (as in 2004) to 49 years in 2050, which will affect the population structure and the so-called age pyramid. this will result in, among other things, a decline in the number of young people, a decline in the working-age population, and an increase in life expectancy. these changes increase the costs to society of maintaining a population inactive in employment. they also exacerbate territorial disparities, characterised by an outflow of young people, which accelerates the ageing process, or by a positive balance of migration, which slows down the process. however, immigration is only a short-term and partial solution and member states should therefore engage in actions to ensure respect for gender equality, social and financial support for families and protection of maternity. only societies that put children at the centre of their policies and create a family-friendly environment are able to counter the adverse effects of demographic change. i would like to emphasise that the increase in life expectancy is a positive phenomenon and that measures should therefore be taken to combat the poverty of pensioners, so that they can live out their final years with dignity. member states should request the establishment of affordable care facilities for dependent persons and children. the eu countries should also pay attention to the problem of infertility, which has a major impact on the process of increasing demographic imbalances and on cooperation in overcoming difficulties.
thank you, mr president! thank you, commissioner! we are in an era of globalization, which means fierce competition between everyone and everyone. the african continent is a field of particular competition. the chinese and japanese economies, australia and the united states are all trying to win this market. if you want to warm up and bond, you usually start with sports, and that's already happened. but then there's student exchange and scientific collaboration. if we work with africa on this today, in five or ten years, we will be exchanging thousands of students and scientists. they will be thousands of ambassadors for our mutual cooperation. the joint scientific projects of today will be, in ten years' time, major investments, the flow of skilled workers, the opening up of markets, and thus competitiveness, growth and new jobs in europe and africa. and that's what we're gonna do today.
on behalf of the alde group. the fourth cohesion report and the guellec report highlight the success of cohesion policy in reducing disparities between countries, note the rapid growth of formerly lagging countries such as greece and portugal, but at the same time acknowledge the failure of this policy to bring the level of development between regions closer together. unfortunately, member states allow excessive concentration of investment and other development elements in national capitals. and so do the regions, which also concentrate their investments in the central areas, neglecting the equitable development of the whole. the disparities within and between the regions of the european union are much greater than in the united states or japan. all of this points to the need for a mechanism to stimulate decentralisation within the member states. a sustainable but dynamic regional policy is needed for the next financial perspective. the guellec report balances the need for a skilful combination of the lisbon strategy and cohesion policy, which cannot be a tool of the former alone. cohesion policy, which aims at equitable and sustainable development, is an important objective in itself. it's the cheapest way to counter something that's incredibly expensive, because of the consequences, the conflict, the mass emigration and immigration, the relocation of businesses and all these other things that are always a shock to local communities. the report adopted today on the lisbon treaty stresses the importance of the territorial dimension. however, there is an urgent need to clarify this concept and to define this territoriality clearly, because we are currently using this term in the dark and in too many senses. in the report by mr guellec, it is a concept that is both overriding and complementary to economic and social cohesion policy. one is about equal access to services, one is about equal distribution of, say, research facilities. unfortunately, the green paper on the territorial dimension should be discussed much earlier than in the autumn, after the report on cohesion.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on behalf of the uen, i would like to express my deep appreciation to both rapporteurs. the word 'cohesion' has acquired a special meaning in the union. the treaty of rome already mentions the need to unite national economies and promote their harmonious development by reducing regional disparities. the fourth report covers the years 2000 to 2006. it should be noted that mr guellec's report refers to this report and contains many valuable conclusions. the report presents a synthesis of the situation in all member states. it also shows the areas of greatest disparity. for these regions, the equalisation must be seen in the longer term. the commission's report contains many comparative parameters that were missing from previous documents. however, there is still a suggestion to use indicators complementing basic gdp per capita for the different nuts levels. cohesion policy is the foundation of integration and serves the union well in its harmonious development. in this context, its regional and local aspects are important (as mrs staniszewska has already mentioned) as well as its ecological aspects. we also need to see its impact on the union's innovation and competitiveness, and thus on the implementation of the lisbon strategy. demographic issues are also important, because we have areas that are in danger of being depopulated. when we talk about cohesion, we think of it as economic and social. the term 'territorial cohesion' needs to be defined urgently and well. cohesion is to be understood as ensuring that citizens of the union, irrespective of their place of residence, have similar opportunities in terms of access to health, education, culture, the internet, communications, etc. cohesion policy should be improved and strengthened by appropriate union measures. the urban aspect is particularly important, as mrs kallenbach has said. recently, questions have been raised: is it cohesion or competitiveness, equality or efficiency? the short answer is both, in reasonable proportion.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the aim of bridging the gap between the development and income of the different countries and regions of the european union is one of the main objectives of our work. the enlargement of the union in recent years has widened the gap by including countries with much lower levels of development. only in rapidly developing countries is there a chance of closing the gap, which is estimated to be more than 15 years. that's a lot, considering the fact that funding is limited and the ability of the countries that are moving forward to use it is less. i know that the success of spain, portugal, greece and ireland cannot be replicated quickly, just as it is not possible to catch up with the united states and japan, but the beginnings are always the hardest, and we have the positive example of the czech republic that it can be done. the change in the mentality of our citizens, which has taken place and is still taking place, gives hope for the future, and the lisbon strategy sets out the precise direction of our actions. finally, i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs on their excellent speeches and say that, although mr martínez is not here, i do not agree with what he said.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy, as the report underlines, is a very important element in the integration of societies within the union. however, administrative and procedural obstacles are still being created to enable regions with weak infrastructure to adapt to the level of developed regions. why such a complicated procedure for mobilising eu funds? for example, for road infrastructure, funds can be transferred directly to the appropriate levels of local government, which are controlled by the institutions of the member states. you wouldn't wait a few years to build or repair a road. of course, there must be different rules for legal persons and firms or associations. if we really want to do something in the backward regions, let's give the local governments specific funds for their budgets, even without their own contribution, because sometimes they can't afford a small contribution because they are too poor.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the guellec report proposes the european parliament's position on the fourth cohesion report. the fourth report contains information and analyses on the effectiveness of cohesion policy and, in accordance with the procedure adopted, is de facto the first step in the debate on cohesion policy in the new programming period. the report by mr guellec therefore not only provides opinions on the analysis but also makes proposals. the debate on the future of cohesion policy must take account of new circumstances and new challenges. the continuation of the lisbon strategy, climate change, changes in energy policy, and the recognition of the consequences of migration processes are all new challenges for the european union and call for action to reduce new development disparities. and of course the question is which of these actions will be funded by the common funds and which will be pursued as a union policy. in the debate on the future of cohesion policy, we refer to the debate on the future of the european union. we often talk about a union of action, a union of results and a union that is perceived and accepted by its citizens. at the same time, there are voices of so-called reformers who propose new solutions, such as the renationalisation of cohesion policy, which is de facto the opposite of solidarity policy. we must remember that the member states have their own internal policy of equalizing disparities and that they do so independently of european finances, on the basis of their own funds, and that the richer countries therefore manage it more effectively. on the other hand, renationalisation is a de facto restriction of cohesion policy and we must oppose it. therefore, if we want to see results, to see action, we must strengthen cohesion policy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the report is so wide-ranging that i shall only mention a few problems. one of the main challenges for the union's development is the over-development of urban areas, energy consumption, transport and demographic changes, such as the depopulation of certain areas of the union and the widening gap between rich and less affluent areas. an integrated development policy, focusing on infrastructure modernisation, energy efficiency and the introduction of green and affordable public transport, will provide one of the ways to ensure continuity in this sector. another objective of this strategy should be to focus on the development of rural areas in order to increase their competitiveness and thus reduce the depopulation of these areas, which is so important for the new member states. i would also like to stress the importance of cooperation between urban and rural areas in order to promote the common development of the whole territory. access to information and communication technologies should play a crucial role in territorial cohesion and spatial development, and this is the biggest problem we face today.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. reducing economic and social disparities between european regions is a fundamental objective of the european union. our aim is to achieve the 'europe of equal regions'. after the recent enlargements, it is becoming increasingly necessary to strengthen the cohesion objective, as countries such as poland, bulgaria and romania will need, according to some analyses, more than 15 years to reach a gdp level of 75% of the union average at their current rate of economic growth. the full and legal use of the structural funds is a prerequisite for reducing economic and social disparities between european regions, particularly in the new member states, which are facing many problems. for example, polish local authorities have recently been facing problems due to the weakening of the euro against the polish zloty, which has resulted in a real reduction in eu funds for regional projects already approved. moreover, labour and production costs in europe continue to rise, which increases the cost of investments financed by union funds and leads to a real reduction in the volume of these funds and consequently threatens the implementation of many union projects.
thank you, mr president! the fourth report on economic and social cohesion is more detailed than the previous ones, is based on a number of indicators and provides useful comparative data, also for countries such as the united states, japan, china and india. cohesion policy has played an important role in strengthening the capacity of all member states to achieve harmonious development and to create new and permanent jobs since its inception. although it is too early to assess the results of cohesion policy in the new member states, the delays in the use of existing structural measures are already worrying. convergence between countries often masks the deepening differences between and within regions. regional and local disparities are increasing in many areas, including employment, productivity, income, education and innovation potential. social inclusion and equal opportunities policies must be taken into account at every stage of the implementation of cohesion projects. i hope that the future review of the financial framework will provide the budgetary means necessary to meet the ambitious challenges of the new cohesion policy in the enlarged union, ensuring that all citizens... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the policy of socioeconomic cohesion is the foundation of european solidarity. this is the part of european policy that we are most envious of other regional integration initiatives around the world. the uniqueness of the european project is based largely on the idea of cohesion. in the case of regional initiatives in africa or south america, there is no money even for a substitute for cohesion policy. we often evaluate enlargement plans through the lens of the ability to take effective action to increase cohesion. it is safe to say that cohesion policy is a great success for the union and for all the member states. there is also no doubt that the union is judged by its own citizens on the basis of their assessment of whether cohesion policy is being implemented and whether it is achieving its objectives. in many member states, especially those with a short eu history, cohesion policy is a source of great hope. i hope that solidarity is not just a beautiful word, but a concrete commitment to those who have been less fortunate. cohesion is also a tool for leveling the playing field and a fantastic advertisement for the union. this is why we should not consider reducing the financial resources devoted to improving socioeconomic cohesion. on the contrary, consideration should be given to increasing the cohesion funds. this is due, for example, to the emergence of new and growing challenges. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. cohesion policy is not one of the original policies that have accompanied the european community since its birth. it was born not by chance, at a time when the european union was welcoming countries that were relatively less developed and therefore less coherent with the area of the six founding countries. since then, cohesion has gained importance, becoming a treaty and budgetary pillar of european integration. this is evidenced by the allocation of over eur 308 billion for cohesion in the 2007-13 financial perspective. for some time now, there has been a tendency to question this fundamental eu policy. paradoxically, this is happening at a time when the eu is expanding into the countries of central and eastern europe, which for historical reasons have the greatest distance to cover. the commission is therefore not proposing to abolish cohesion policy altogether, but to reorient it fundamentally, under the slogan of squandering the structural funds and abusing them. nothing is more fake! the irregularities must be exposed and eliminated, but it is regional policy that makes the union visible in all 27 countries! cohesion, i.e. the building of cohesion and the equalization of opportunities, cannot be subordinated to other policies, which should have their own budget lines, such as competitiveness or combating climate change. the assessment of what should be financed under cohesion should be left to the countries and regions, who know their own needs better than the administration in brussels!
in writing. - mrs. monica frassoni has written a good report. i agree with the call to facilitate the application of community law and to introduce 'package meetings' and workshops on the transposition of community legislation. i also support the idea of improving the effectiveness of the implementation of community acts through closer cooperation between the ep and national parliaments. these actions will make it possible to improve the effectiveness of european union policies, for example in the field of the european funds or the harmonisation of standards for goods in the common market.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mrs monici frassoni on monitoring the application of community law in 2005. the commissioner has prepared a very good report. the specific points in the draft resolution call in particular for coherence in the interaction between the eu institutions, national parliaments and citizens themselves. the main points of the report are the need for better controls, proposals to facilitate the application of community law and to improve its effectiveness. without them, it will be impossible to improve the effectiveness of european union policies, for example in the area of the operation of the european funds or the harmonisation of standards for goods in the common market. the draft resolution also calls on national parliaments to go beyond the purely formal transposition of community legislation and to avoid fragmentation in the transposition of national legislation.
in writing. - ms christel schaldemose rightly points out that the proposed decision, which aims to establish a more rigorous and comprehensive system of community supervision of the placing of products on the market, could have a significant impact on the course of international trade, which requires a separate analysis. i agree that the proposal to make importers jointly liable for damage caused by dangerous products or products not complying with the accreditation system is intended to increase the efficiency of the system and to protect the public interest of the community and to ensure the fundamental right of citizens to protection against unfair and dangerous practices.
in writing. - i fully support the report on the demographic future of europe. it is a fact that the decline in natural growth, which has been ongoing for many years, combined with the continuous and gradual increase in life expectancy, may lead to significant changes in the structure of the population of the european union in the perspective of 2050. these include the global ageing of the population and the decline in the number of people of working age, which means an increase in the budgetary burden on member states. this process is painful not only for individual member states but also for the union as a whole, which may face a loss of competitiveness and a decline in economic growth compared to those regions of the world which are experiencing rapid demographic growth. it is also clear that such demographic imbalances will have a negative impact on the financing of social welfare and the balance of pension systems. i therefore support the countermeasures proposed in the report to promote demographic renewal, to extend active working lives, to guarantee high quality social care and to promote solidarity between generations. such action is essential to maintain the competitiveness of the union's economy, while ensuring the long-term functioning of the european social model.
in writing. - ms françoise castex rightly points out that, given that the average european demographic burden ratio (i.e. the ratio of people aged over 65 to those aged 14-65) will increase from 25% in 2004 to 53% in 2050, the european union may face a loss of competitiveness and a decline in economic growth. i agree with the demands for the development of five main areas of action for demographic renewal, active living of high quality, a more efficient europe, better integration of immigrants, guaranteeing social welfare and solidarity between generations.
in writing. − we voted against this report because the solutions it proposes as regards the demographic crisis are counter-productive. in contrast to what the report says, only traditional families and social respect for motherhood provide the remedy we need. the social experiments proposed in the report (so-called ‘alternative family structures’) bring nothing but risks for our societies.
in writing. - we have adopted an important report on the demographic future of europe. while the increase in life expectancy is a clear achievement for the eu member states, it is also leading to a gradual ageing of the population. this situation will in the long term lead to a disturbance in the relationship between the number of people of working age and the number of people of post-production age. this will threaten the maintenance of solidarity between generations, as fewer than today's working population will have to bear the increasing costs of benefits, pensions, pensions, protection and health care for the unemployed. to counter this, measures should be taken to extend the period of work and increase the birth rate and to implement programmes for the comprehensive integration of immigrants. the technical and information technology modernisation of workplaces, which will make them more efficient and productive, will have a significant impact on improving the situation. the problem to be addressed is the phenomenon of rural-urban migration and the hidden labour resources in rural areas, particularly in the less developed countries. demography is one of the key challenges for european society, especially in the context of such high overpopulation in other regions of the world.
in writing. - in view of the demographic threat to europe, it is good that the commission and our parliament have taken up this problem. unfortunately, with the rejection of most of the relevant amendments, i was forced to vote against the adoption of mrs castex's report on this matter. in particular, the fact that parliament has accepted a provision which suggests full acceptance of the legal conflict between the definition of the family in the legislation of the country of origin of the migrant and that of the country of destination, and the resulting economic obligations in the case of polygamy, is unacceptable and infringes the internal rules of the member states, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are witnessing another crisis in east timor. its solution will not be possible without the participation and cooperation of the authorities of that country, which must lead to the dismantling of all paramilitary groups, as well as the disarmament of civilians and the liquidation of armed criminal groups. those responsible for attacks on the most important people in the state must be brought to justice. all political forces, both those in power and those in opposition, must refrain from unlawful violence. however, recent events have made it clear that there is a risk that timor could become another country whose basic institutions are not functioning and which could fall into the category of failed states. we all know how dangerous these countries are, and we need not give examples here, but let us take the example of somalia. the international community, given its role in the creation of this state and its continued commitment, cannot allow such a black scenario to materialize. the european union's commitment to supporting democratic forces and institutions is therefore still essential, and the departure of the parliament's delegation should allow the effectiveness of this support to be examined.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. east timor recently won its independence by defending its catholic identity. it was a bloody and costly war for independence. the president of east timor has been awarded the nobel peace prize. it further obliges the international community to help bring order to the area. i agree with ms. gomez that this was a country that was developing properly and meeting all the necessary standards to function well. today, this war is shattering those standards and shattering that inner order. i think it is worth going back to the proposal made by the polish president, lech kaczyński, and recently reiterated by president sarkozy, that european armed forces should be called up, which could intervene if necessary. if we don't have the strength to intervene, we'll be meeting here endlessly on thursdays and debating without any result.
on behalf of the uen group. the european parliament's draft resolution on east timor is a very meaningful one. it shows the tragedy of the people of this country and the impotence of the state authorities, international institutions and peacekeepers. despite numerous efforts and considerable international aid, the internal struggle continues, with people being killed, property being squandered, and cultural assets being destroyed. poverty, mass unemployment of 80%, demoralization, illiteracy, are diseases that are destroying society and causing despair and the fuel of rebellion. the people of east timor want to live in peace and quiet, to work, to study and to develop their country economically, but this will only happen if the democratic authorities of east timor are strengthened and the international institutions are given increased support. the authors of the resolution therefore rightly call for political, technical and financial support to be provided to east timor and recall that the european union, as well as the united nations, have publicly committed themselves to supporting independence and democracy and the rule of law. the uen political group will support this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! east timor is seen by many as the most successful reconstruction process in the history of the united nations. but timor seems to forget the sacrifice it made to fight for its independence and end 24 years of brutal indonesian occupation and the joy it brought to its country's freedom. less than six years after independence, it's on the brink of chaos. the emerging democracy and independence do not come easily. this is the beginning of the journey, not the end. but one thing is certain and it must be said clearly. violence is not and never has been the way to solve any problems. this is the path of dialogue, political pluralism, the strengthening of democratic institutions such as a parliament, an independent judiciary and governance by democratically elected authorities. i call on the european commission and the council to ensure that as much of the aid from the 10th european development fund allocated to timor is used to strengthen democracy.
thank you, mr president! it has been a year and a half since the european parliament last adopted a resolution on east timor. the country formally independent since 2002, and hit four years later by a civil war triggered by a group of discharged soldiers, has again found itself in a serious political crisis after the assassination of president ramos horta on 11 february this year . a state of emergency has been declared, requesting reinforcements for the 1,600 peacekeepers already stationed. the political crisis in the country is accompanied by an economic crisis. the unemployment rate is around 80%, with 40% of the unemployed living below the poverty line. stabilisation of the state will not be possible without a consensus among the political forces on the basic functions of the state. condemn the brutal assassination of the president and prime minister and call on the timorese government to end the violence, including gang violence. the international community, in particular the un and the security council, must support the consolidation of democracy, not forgetting the economic aid needed to combat poverty and build up east timor's administration and infrastructure.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. recently, most political prisoners in belarus have been released, that is, almost all of them, except one. but that doesn't mean we're confident that things are going well in belarus. on the same day, a number of opposition figures in belarus were raided and a high school teacher was fired because he was told that as a member of the opposition civic party he did not represent an ideology compatible with the state ideology. in belarus - and this is a very curious thing - there is such a thing as a state ideology, and therefore it is hardly surprising that recruitment for such fields as journalism, law, international relations is only done in such a way that candidates have to submit recommendations from the authorities. this is an unacceptable situation, although we accept the step that has been taken and we note it with some satisfaction. as for belarus itself, the question is, of course, what is the purpose of such actions. it seems that president lukashenko simply wants to show, also with a gesture such as agreeing to the establishment of the european commission's representation in minsk, that he is not somehow condemned to a purely pro-russian policy. this policy is becoming increasingly difficult in belarus. belarus does not want to be subjected to a complete process of absorption by russia. here even mr lukashenko takes this kind of position, but the thing is happening. belarus is being bought up by russia. gazprom has recently completed another transaction, which has already resulted in a 1/4 stake in companies controlling gas and oil transmission lines through belarus, and will soon get a 50% stake. it also looks like russia will be able to convince belarus to adopt the ruble as its own currency. therefore, the situation is becoming more and more dangerous and support for independent action in belarus, for civil society, is all the more necessary. this support is already going on, but it needs to be increased, especially by supporting newly established institutions such as the tv for belarus, which is a very serious means of informing the local community about what is really happening. i think we have to keep the belarus issue in mind at all times, because it is a matter for the whole of europe, because we cannot tolerate the fact that in the very center of europe there is an anomaly like the state of belarus, which is a state ruled by a dictator.
author. − mr president, this afternoon i would firstly like to welcome the positive sign of relations between the eu and belarus. the recent developments on the agreements to establish the european commission’s delegation in minsk are a positive step toward renewing dialogue with the european union and belarus. we would like to encourage the commission to use the full potential of the opening of a delegation. the time has come for the international community as a whole to extend more support to civil society in belarus, in particular to increase financial aid to the independent media, to non-governmental organisations and to belarusian students studying abroad. the commission’s decision to give financial support to the european humanities university in vilnius is very wise. the commission and the council should consider offering financial support to the project, which is already in existence, to create the independent belarusian television channel belsat. secondly, the european parliament calls on the commission and the council to take further steps towards the facilitation and liberalisation of visa procedures for belarusian citizens. we call on member states in the schengen area to use all available tools, mainly national visa costs, in order to facilitate the movement of belarusian citizens within each member state’s territory. thirdly, we call on president lukashenko’s regime above all to move towards liberalisation and democratisation, to release all prisoners of conscience in the country, to introduce the rule of law and freedom of media associations and to abolish the death penalty. in conclusion, i would like to express this afternoon our solidarity with the united democratic opposition of belarus, the leader of the democratic movement, alexander milinkevich, and all belarusian citizens in their struggle towards an open society.
- thank you very much, mr president. the actions of the dictatorship of alexander lukashenko in belarus against its own people are well known. since the beginning of the year, three peaceful demonstrations have been brutally suppressed. the authorities are notorious for persecuting opposition activists, imposing restrictions on the entry of clergy and catechists, and curious regulations such as requiring approval from the authorities to study law or journalism. in this situation, the tightening of sanctions against belarus seems to be the only response to the recent events. at the same time, we must not forget that it is our moral right and duty to support and build a civil society in belarus. the immediate instruments of assistance to the opposition include the lifting of the information blockade. a good example of this is the initiative taken by polish public television, which launched the first independent television channel, belsat, on 10 december 2007, broadcasting programmes in belarus. unfortunately, as the head of this project, ms. agnieszka romaszewska, informed me today, there is still no financial support from the european union. there is not even a budget line from which to fund the promotion of human rights and democracy in belarus. ladies and gentlemen! another very important issue is undoubtedly the high fees for belarusians for schengen visas. by restricting access to the european union for members of the lukashenka regime, we must make it easier for people who are not connected to the regime to access the union.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. for two years, former presidential candidate alexander kazulin has been in prison, sentenced to five and a half years for hooliganism. kazulin's wife, irina, is constantly fighting for her husband's release, even though she herself is gravely ill. president lukashenko has offered to release kazulin so that he and his wife can go to germany for irina's treatment. lukashenko expressed surprise when his proposal was rejected. for miss irina, it would be a cowardly escape from the country. if president lukashenko wants to improve his image, he should immediately and unconditionally release alexander kazulin. we wish that soon the kazulins will be able to enjoy freedom and health on belarusian soil.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. belarus, a country neighbouring the european union and sharing a difficult history of communist oppression, still cannot enjoy democratic conditions for the exercise of power and respect for human rights. the regime of president lukashenka, who has been in power for the next term in violation of democratic procedures, applies brutal repression to any manifestation of the formation of civil society. the intimidation of journalists, leaders of independent youth organisations and trade unions, arrests of political opposition figures, such as in the case of kazulin, which mrs gacek mentioned a moment ago, repression of national minorities, including the polish minority, and today also repression of small businessmen for fear of their economic independence, are sad realities in belarus. the european union has a moral obligation to provide economic and information support to all groups defending human rights and democratic freedoms in belarus through independent media, including television for belarus. the establishment of a european union representation in minsk would be a good way to control the situation. on the tenth anniversary of the chernobyl disaster, i participated legally in a demonstration in minsk. i saw the omuno troops brought from moscow against the population evacuated from the danger zone. i saw blood pools in the streets of minsk. this can't happen again.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to support the statements of the members who spoke before. i would also like to add one very important general point, namely that we cannot separate our policy towards belarus from the whole of the european union's eastern policy. we have had a tendency to forgive many undemocratic actions of the russian administration. you have to pay attention to that. i know that what is happening in belarus has no comparison with what is happening in russia today, but it certainly had and has comparisons with what happened in chechnya and we cannot act differently towards belarus and differently towards russia. the second very important issue is the question of pursuing our policy towards the east with a view to enlarging the european union. today, the fate of ukraine is being decided by whether it will be a democratic country, a strong empowerment for all of europe. if we show the ukrainians an open door, it will be a sign to the belarusians that there is an alternative. this alternative exists in closer relations and relations with the european union, and in future membership of the european union, even if it is many years away.
mr. chairman, please! it is clear from this discussion that belarus is a problem that is recognised and considered very important in parliament. i would like to thank all those who have been concerned about human rights in belarus. i would like to make it clear to all of you that parliamentary elections will be held in belarus this autumn and we should do everything we can, both as members of this house and as representatives of the major european political families, to support the belarusian opposition in this unequal but just struggle for a free, democratic belarus.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to bring up one thing. recently, frank wieczorka, a young oppositionist, was expelled from the university. the formal reason for his expulsion was that he was absent from class, and he was absent because he was arrested. being expelled from the university means being barred from education, but also threatened with conscription, and what it means to serve in the regime's army for an oppositionist is something only those who have lived under dictatorship conditions understand. it could be very dangerous for him. i think we should do everything we can to help resolve the situation in belarus.
mr. chairman, please! the thing about dictatorships is they don't listen to anybody. we can say what we want, and she does what she wants. the only counterweight to it is democracy. and if i were the commissioner - and i'm talking to you, commissioner - i would do my best to help educate a democratically-minded elite. if it doesn't work in belarus, it can work in other countries. someone has to be the guide, and that's the kind of elite i'd count on.
mr. chairman, please! it is a shame for belarus that a country that lies at the geographical centre of europe is being brought before the council of europe today on the issue of human rights violations. it is a shame for belarus that it is the only european country excluded from the work of the council of europe - because it does not respect any basic human rights. i therefore believe that mr bielan was right when he said that civil society in belarus should be strengthened by supporting the media coming from poland to help that society.
in writing. as a co-author of the european parliament resolution on belarus, i would like to draw attention to the state of democracy, respect for human rights and, in particular, the situation of the people in belarus. belarus is not only a close neighbour of the union, which is included in the neighbourhood policy. belarus is the closest, because it's only separated by a direct border, by my country's neighbor, poland. this is perhaps the best explanation for why, here in the european parliament, the question of meeting the real hopes and expectations of ordinary people in this country is particularly close to my heart. it is impossible to remain indifferent when we see directly beyond the eu's borders: restrictions and administrative pressure on ngos, intimidation, persecution and imprisonment of democratic opposition activists, including the leaders of the belarusian people's front and the young renaissance youth movement. therefore, a genuine dialogue between the belarusian authorities and the european union should be launched as soon as possible. the union has not only the right but also the duty to demand that the belarusian government release all political prisoners, guarantee media freedom, the independence of the judiciary and respect for democratic values and the fundamental rights of the belarusian people, and above all abolish the death penalty. the european parliament, for its part, has taken steps to make it easier for belarusian citizens to enter and stay in the eu. the possibility of reducing or even abolishing visa fees is currently being considered. this is the only way to avoid further isolation of belarus and its citizens.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. since world war ii, there has been no conflict as bloody and barbaric as the congolese conflict. the fighting in north kivu has been raging for 10 years and has claimed more than 5 million lives. every day, 1,500 people die as a result of this conflict. the massacres, the rape of little girls and mothers, the forced recruitment of civilians and children into the armed forces, and numerous other gross human rights violations committed in the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo in recent months by laurent nkundia's rebel groups, the democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda (fdlr) and the congolese army itself are commonplace. eastern congo is in urgent need of medical aid and food supplies as recent events have forced most humanitarian organizations to suspend their activities. i therefore call on the council and the european commission to mobilise emergency funds in view of the extremely serious humanitarian situation in the region.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the congo, which jospeh conrad called the "core of darkness", has been the scene of gruesome pogroms, massacres and civil wars since its inception in 1960, and these have never allowed this resource-rich country to stand on its own two feet. it is the bloodiest and most barbaric conflict since world war ii, and worse still, the war there is still going on, taking nearly 50,000 lives every month. half of these victims are children under the age of five. military marches are accompanied by all kinds of crimes against the civilian population, rape, looting, murder. we therefore welcome with great hope the outcome of the goma peace conference, which will perhaps, but it will also depend on us, bring an end to the armed conflict in the kivu region. however, without the support of the international community of neighbouring countries, a solution to this conflict may not be possible. importantly, international support should not be limited to political declarations but should primarily be limited to the provision of appropriate financial, organisational and technical assistance.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. despite the goma agreement on improving security and development in congo, human rights violations continue in the kivu provinces. since the end of 2006 alone, 300,000 people have been forced to flee their homes due to the escalating violence, especially against women and children, who are being raped and forcibly recruited into the army. six million people have been displaced and five million have died because of wars and conflicts caused by business groups and their governments, who are interested in exploiting the wealth of the world. the european union must not only adopt resolutions and debate in the european parliament or provide humanitarian aid to the people of the congo, but also put an end to the exploitation of natural resources and the speculative activities of international companies that enrich themselves at the expense of the lives and health of the people of the region.
mr. chairman, please! as my colleague posselt said, in large parts of the congo, it's one big hell, and it's being worked on by actors who are not necessarily congolese. i wanted to point out one thing that i could see there, which is a lot of orphans as a result of the conflict that is going on all the time. i would give all my money to the missionaries to take care of the children, especially the boys, so that they don't get drafted into the army, because once they're drafted, they can only shoot and rape and nothing else. so, once again, commissioner, money for training and care for these unfortunates.
mr president, i rise on behalf of my group with an oral amendment to the proposed amendment. while freedom of expression is laid down in the commission’s non-paper, the internet is sadly not particularly included or singled out. therefore, to be factually correct and to include all freedoms of expression, not just on the internet, we ask that the phrase ‘on the internet’ be removed from the amendment.
madam president! with 439 signatures, written statement no 88 on the investigation of abuse of power by large supermarkets has become the official position of the european parliament. in may 2007, the polish parliament adopted a law on the establishment and operation of large supermarkets, which meets these expectations and in particular requires municipalities where supermarkets are to be located to examine the balance between the different forms of trade and the principles of fair competition in the conduct of commercial activities. the european commission challenged these solutions and asked the polish government to change them, under the threat of referring the case to the court of justice. i would like the president to draw the attention of the european commission to the clear contradiction between the expectations of the european parliament and the actions of the european commission in this matter.
madam president! there is a major report that has just been published on poverty among european children. almost 19 percent of our children live below the poverty line, which is 60 percent of the national per capita income. there are countries where the rate is higher. unfortunately, poland is also among them. it is therefore good that the european commission is going to present a specific programme to combat child poverty. we also know what the demographic situation is in the union. our families need a lot of support. the poor need special help. in this context, how should we assess the demand for high vat rates on children's goods (from 7% to 22% in poland)? in some countries, not the poorest, it is zero in the uk, ireland, or very low (3%) in luxembourg. the governments of these countries were more proactive. doesn't this all border on hypocrisy? in this context, i would like to ask the european parliament to take action to amend the vat directive on children's clothing and footwear.
madam president! opinions are currently being collected in the european union on amendments to the juice directive 112/2001/ec. a strong lobby of citric acid producers wants to see the possibility of acidifying fruit juices and their components, including apple juice, with citric acid, lemon juice and lime juice to increase their acidity. the creation of such a possibility would violate the principle of competitiveness and would lead to the exclusion of european fruit juices, including apple juices. the question arises: why do the eu authorities so often succumb to pressure from lobby groups and, if they do, what protective measures will be taken against apple producers and their products? the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. in this context, it would be a great injustice and a blow to the european fruit industry to accept the proposal to allow the acidification of juices, including apple juice, with citric acid.
madam president! last month i asked the european commission to suspend the examination procedure and reject the request of the republic of poland to grant restructuring aid to the national sugar company and to initiate the control procedure. my letter was supported by 35 meps from different countries and political groups. in connection with the restructuring aid granted, the national sugar company intends to close the lublin sugar mill completely and demolish all the buildings. in the opinion of the plant's staff and protest committee, which also asked the european commission and the european parliament's committee on petitions to intervene, the preparation and examination of the above application resulted in a breach of community procedures. we are still waiting for the european commission's position on this matter. i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to this particular problem because ... (the president withdrew the floor).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me begin by saying that, as everyone knows, the common european visa policy has so far brought us tangible results with several third countries, such as, very recently, canada and australia. this has not been the case, unfortunately, with the united states. since 2004, we have been working very hard to achieve the aim of having all member states in the united states’ visa waiver programme. i, together with the presidents-in-office of the council, have constantly pressed the united states administration to make the voices of all eu member states heard in washington. president barroso, as you know, has raised the issue personally with president bush, as well as with the leaders of the us congress on each of his official visits to washington. we have all argued that eu member states already meet the additional security criteria as set out in the reform legislation recently adopted by the united states. we fully understand that the lack of progress with the united states has created a lot of frustration among those not yet participating in the us visa waiver programme. our citizens have a legitimate right not to understand the reasons for such discrimination. we should not allow ourselves, however, to be divided and bullied into going beyond what has recently been agreed and accepting what should be out of the question – for example, providing others with access to schengen migration data and asylum data. all this should be out of the question. we need detailed discussion, negotiation and consideration of reciprocity. we have, after all, achieved a great deal together. most recently, we have celebrated the expansion of the schengen area to most of europe. in turn, it gives us collective responsibility for dealing with all matters relating to the security of the external borders and for ensuring the correctness of the screening and handling of data pertaining to all those who visit our common territory. i do not question the right of eu member states to engage with the united states on issues which are national prerogatives, for example cooperation between intelligence services or air marshal programmes, but we are of the view that what the us is asking from all of us in different visa-related issues raises serious legal and political questions. allow me to underline that, although the sense of urgency may be understandable, we all have to acknowledge that the signing of the memorandum of understanding does not get anyone into the visa waiver programme the next day. the united states still has to set up the electronic travel authorisation and the air exit control. it will undertake extensive on-site evaluation visits in the countries concerned. therefore, there is no need to hurry into something that is legally questionable and leaves each country to its own devices when negotiating with the united states. since all european union member states, both those seeking the waiving of visas and those already in the programme, are concerned by this and are being approached by the united states, coreper – the ambassadors of the european union member states – adopted on 5 march a common baseline: a set of common parameters that will guide the discussions the member states will have individually with the united states. it will be a good basis for our talks with us partners at the eu-us ministerial troika on 13 march 2008. in parallel, i will present tomorrow a mandate for proper eu negotiations with the united states on matters arising from visa policy. by pursuing a common approach based on common parameters, we will reinforce the possibility of reaching, in the short term, an agreement with our american partners on the mandate proposed by the commission. we need to keep in mind that the eu and the united states are close allies. this has been demonstrated on numerous occasions. fighting terrorism is a global challenge, which not only affects us all but which can also only be successfully countered if we work together. the european union is ready to do its part by keeping member states united and respectful of european common legislation and competence. in conclusion, we will be negotiating with the united states. it is simply not possible to abandon, to renounce, not only our european legislation but also our common criteria, on the basis of which we have been negotiating. we will continue to negotiate. no member state will be entitled or allowed to violate or to derogate from european legislation on this.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. the common visa policy is a community competence. in addition, member states are obliged to respect the principle of solidarity in this area. if that principle is violated, it is worth considering why. the council argues that the us visa weaver programme should ultimately create the same rights for all eu citizens. unfortunately, as has been the case, there is still no concrete scenario for when and how this goal will be achieved. the commission explains that the citizens of the so-called new countries that joined the schengen area at the end of last year have achieved a great success. yes, joining the schengen area is a real boon for citizens. the humiliating, time-consuming, and costly process of obtaining a tourist visa to the united states is all the more daunting. i have a question: what has been the commission's performance so far in the negotiations with the usa? can the commission now give us an assurance that it will take all the necessary steps to ensure that every citizen of the union is treated equally by the united states? can the commission give parliament assurances that it will actively take on the role of coordinator so that bilateral agreements are no longer necessary? parliament is not without blame either. the left in this house in particular, by its indiscriminate and sharp criticism of the united states, is strengthening its conviction that it is possible to negotiate calmly and effectively with individual states, and is tying the hands of the commission. countries not covered by the visa weaver program must show political backbone to resist pressure from impatient citizens. those who break the principle of solidarity increase the pressure of citizens on other governments to put their own national interests above the community principle. the fact that not all eu countries are covered by the programme cannot be seen by the countries covered by the programme as a problem only for those countries which are still waiting for this stage. on behalf of my group, i can assure the commission that we will fully support its efforts to achieve visa-free travel on equal terms for all citizens of the union.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the contributions i have heard. i believe that, since it is a fundamental right of our fellow europeans, the right to freedom of movement which we have recognised by enlarging schengen, it must be said first of all that the european commission and the european institutions must strive for an absolute, not a relative, result. all citizens of all european countries should be allowed to travel to the united states without an individual visa. that is the clear objective and i therefore understand the anxiety, the concern and even the uneasiness of some members who come from member states which have been members of the european union for many, many years, such as greece, or have been members for four years. there is one first element, however, which we must clarify, even if it is for the sake of honesty: it's not true that we haven't achieved anything! we have achieved important results by working at european level rather than at national level, as we have done recently with canada. i was in canada last year when none of the new member states were yet included in the visa waiver program with canada. today, after 12 months, they all are. we have established a system of equal treatment with australia, so that there is no discrimination between old and new between commas member states of the european union. we have not yet done so with the united states, it is true, but i would remind the honourable members who spoke of four years, that is to say the date of accession to the european union, that the united states changed its law in august 2007, less than a year ago. and it was only from that date that, for the first time, the united states said, we are available for the extension of the visa waiver program. and so we are not talking about four years, even with the united states being further behind, but we are talking about less than 12 months of negotiation on the basis of a new law. what we had negotiated earlier, on the basis of a law that has changed today, obviously can no longer be considered. i would therefore say that we must work with the united states to bring all european citizens into an individual visa-free regime, without any member state thinking that it is getting there first. i must say this with great frankness. why would you do that? because it is clear that this gives our interlocutor in the negotiations more power, in this case our american friends, who are friends and allies but who are engaged in negotiating, and from their point of view will continue to do so if they find weaknesses in the european house. we must commit ourselves not to offer these weaknesses: that's the point, and we need to be very clear. you see, when i presented to this parliament the europe-us agreement on pnr, an agreement which was criticised by some and welcomed by others, i said: the european union will be stronger than the united states of america with this european agreement. today i say to myself: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we have evidence that this european agreement is a difference between a weakness of the member states who have been asked for additional data - it is true, they have also been asked for access to databases which are our european databases. but thanks to that agreement, which some criticised and others supported, we will today say very clearly to our american friends that we are not going beyond that european pnr agreement. that's a sign of strength, not weakness. we already know what can be done and what cannot be done. it is set out in our rules, in european laws, in the agreements we have signed and that we have signed. and i have to say this: it is not only obvious that europe must speak with one voice when it deals with these matters, but it is also obvious that the logic of divide and rule is the most wrong logic of all from a european point of view and it is a logic which we must oppose and the institutions must of course oppose. but why are we discussing this subject in the chamber today? because despite clear laws, despite precise agreements, there has been, so to speak, the temptation to leap forward. a temptation which is politically understandable for the citizens of those countries who are anxious, but institutionally unacceptable. and that is why we had to react, to react, of course, in the spirit of solidarity with all the member states, including those aspiring to join the visa waiver program. what did we do? we have asked coreper, the ambassadors of the member states, to share a guiding document. we regard this document as a red line: it reaffirms what can be done and what cannot be done. and we have asked the member states that any political negotiations should be guided by this red line, at this key point, reaffirming for example that exchanges of information beyond those already provided for in the european agreements cannot be done, that matters such as the return of overstayers should be negotiated at european level and not at national level. things like that, frankly, wouldn't even have to be stated in a formal mandate. it was necessary to make it clear, to say once and for all that we understand the concerns of the member states that do not yet have the visa waiver programme, but we must respect those concerns even more, the rules of the european union. if we challenge them, even once, this precedent will be followed by many others, each more dangerous than the last. in conclusion, madam president, we will work this week to offer the united states a negotiating mandate proposal which will say very clearly: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. is there room for individual negotiation? of course, in areas outside the european sphere of competence, that is clear. but for all that, and that is the vast majority, which falls within european competence, the member states will give us a unanimous mandate and i can say that the slovenian presidency is strongly determined to do so. i shall ask the commission tomorrow for a formal mandate to represent to the united states that this is our line and that we cannot make concessions or retreat from this line.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. i thought i made myself clear , but i 'll say it again . there will be no implementing rules contrary to the document approved by coreper and the mandate i will be asking for. those implementing rules are not yet in place because the czech republic has accepted our request not to submit implementing rules until the european common position has been found. we have found it and the government of the czech republic will respect it.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the commission's statement on data protection and consumer rights.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that the concerns expressed by many of the speakers are shared concerns, in the sense that we do not yet have a satisfactory system of personal data protection when we look at new technologies, when we look at the internet. and it is clear that the same attention we have to the proper protection of personal data during an antiterrorist investigation we should have, if not with even greater concern, when my personal data is exposed not to the attention of a magistrate but to the attention of a private industrial group. so the concerns are serious and obviously, although it is a rather new topic, mr lambrinidis' idea of a kind of world data protection charter is absolutely consistent with the global nature of the internet. you know, as i just mentioned in my introduction, that the existing rules apply with reference to the territory of establishment of a given provider, but the internet does not tolerate this territorial limitation. so i think we must work in that direction, just as i think it is important to link the aspects of competition to the aspects of consumer protection policy, including with regard to their personal data. it is a debate which we are obviously beginning, and as you know the commission is following the development of many areas of data protection which are not covered by european legislation. i am referring to the action of the council of europe, the united nations, the international conference on data protection. but there is clearly a risk that we must consider. that's a question i'm asking myself now: is there not a danger that a world data protection charter might weaken protection by having to apply to an extraordinarily large number of recipients? it is clear, then, that we should regard our european legislation as the example - if i can afford it - to be exported and not accept weaker data protection rules, just because these rules have to be applied in a very wide territorial area. in conclusion, i can inform you that just to start thinking concretely, the so-called 'article 29 committee', which all those involved in the work know, which is a committee that is responsible for coordinating actions on data protection, is working on a reasoned opinion on data protection in relation to search engines and service providers. we are dealing with this, in other words, and a questionnaire has been sent to prepare this reasoned opinion, a questionnaire on data protection policies, and this questionnaire has been sent to a very large number of managers, search engine operators and service providers. i believe that the answers that will be collected and this opinion, which i can tell you will be published in a rather short time, i hope before the summer break, will perhaps for the first time give a coordinated answer as to what the problems are and what the directions to follow.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs paola costa on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee on a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules in the field of civil aviation security and repealing regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 (c6-0029/2008 2005/0191 ((cod)) (a6-0049/2008).
madam president! the aviation sector needs specific regulatory provisions, but these should be as flexible as possible and at the same time ensure appropriate harmonisation, particularly in the field of flight safety. the document we are discussing today is of this nature. it is a difficult but good compromise, in my view, reached by the conciliation team, whom i thank for their work. the efforts of mr costa and commissioner barrot are particularly noteworthy. because of the shortness of time, i will address only a few points. first, the charges for aviation security should be transparent and should relate only to the costs of aviation security. secondly, the measures must not distort competition between airports and airlines, which is natural for a free market. thirdly, there is a need to standardise the rules on civil aviation safety worldwide. it is therefore good that a provision on cooperation with the international civil aviation organisation (ecao) has been added. fourthly, safety standards must also be respected by carriers from third countries, otherwise our european action will be ineffective. fifthly, we must prepare the procedures and methods for dealing with a crisis that may not have happened but which is possible in the event of a terrorist attack. finally, let us work together to ensure that the passenger, including the disabled, is the subject and not the object of the actions of all those involved in air transport, also with regard to the safety issue, which is a bit cumbersome.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to congratulate mr albertini on his excellent report. the need to reduce the environmental and energy impacts of transport must of course be the subject of a broad consensus between parliament, the council and the commission. but at the same time, we must maintain mobility, which is the basis of our competitiveness, of our quality of life. how can this sustainable mobility be achieved? this is a huge challenge, and by 2020, we need to achieve a 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20 percent reduction in energy consumption, and a 20 percent increase in renewable energy in our energy consumption. transport is of course expected to make a major contribution to these objectives. first of all, i will try to remind you of the many initiatives we have taken in this field: the development of the transeuropean networks, which we are putting our money into - mr albertini has just mentioned this - the development of rail, which allows a modal shift which, of course, goes in this direction. we have the ten-t project and the marco polo programme to support the motorways of the sea. with the naiades programme, we are supporting water transport. research, of course, must also enable us to develop greener and more efficient technologies. and then i will also mention the recent proposal for a directive on clean vehicles, which the committee on the environment will be starting to work on. to get a clear picture of all these measures, the commission will present an inventory of all the european initiatives. this will be a useful tool for taking stock of all the efforts made and for drawing lessons for the future. i personally hold this inventory very dear. secondly, we are moving towards a strategy of internalising external costs for all modes of transport. the package i will present in june will include a strategy on the internalisation of external costs for all modes of transport. and here we are responding to a strong request from the european parliament. this initiative responds to a need. the external costs are heavy for our economy and our environment - air pollution, noise, congestion - which is also a negative factor for transport mobility. if we want sustainable mobility, we must ensure that the external costs of transport are integrated into what users pay. by proposing in 2006 to include aviation in the european emissions trading system, we took a step towards internalising external costs in the aviation sector. i intend to accompany this strategy of internalisation with a proposal for a revision of the directive on heavy goods vehicle pricing. this revision will allow member states to include not only infrastructure costs in tolls, as is the case today, but also external environmental costs, if they so wish, which is not possible today, except in very limited cases. this revision will make it possible to internalise external costs in another sector, rail. community legislation provides that the internalisation of external costs in rail can only take place if other modes also internalise their external costs. in short, we are moving towards smart tolls, educational tolls, which will make it possible to punish more those lorries which have the worst environmental standards or which use the main routes during periods of congestion and congestion. i would add that we will be taking a number of initiatives during the second half of the year. i will be making a statement on measures to reduce noise in the railway sector. and then, on the roads, gains can be made in terms of reducing congestion through the intelligent transport system. we will aim at interoperability, the one-box. this will facilitate the organisation of logistical clauses at european level. the report by mr albertini also calls for the creation of a genuine single european sky. you're right, mr. albertini, this is the way. in fact, as has been said before, we really must make progress in the cesar project, which must play a vital role in ensuring the technological development necessary for this purpose. initiatives to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from the aviation sector and noise around airports are planned. we are also working on measures in the maritime sector. urban transport, of course, must also be part of this effort: 40% of co2 emissions and 70% of other pollutant emissions come from vehicles in urban environments. in the european parliament, i am very grateful to mr rack for his work on this subject, and i hope that we will succeed in presenting a toolbox this autumn that cities can use. these are just a few examples of a major project which is, it must be said, one of the main priorities of my mandate: making transport greener, greening of transport, while ensuring transport accessible to all european citizens. mr albertini, you are right, your report is coming in on time. there is a great deal of convergence between parliament and the commission on sustainable mobility and i would like to thank parliament and mr albertini very much for this excellent work, which also gives a great deal of insight into our own work at the commission.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the draft resolution on a european sustainable transport policy, taking account of european energy and environmental policies, is an attempt to take a comprehensive approach to the urgent transport issue. the rapporteur, mr albertini, deserves our thanks for his correct approach to the problem and his constructive proposals. mr albertini rightly pointed out, amongst others, that he underestimated and neglected the development of rail transport, especially in freight transport. we have to remember that road projects alone are not going to solve the problem and that rail projects are necessary. for those who don't see it, i recommend a ride on polish roads, which have been hit by trains in recent years. the second problem that needs to be addressed quickly is congestion in large urban areas, the concentration of emissions in cities and in so-called inter-city transport corridors. here, too, rail transport, the so-called high-speed rail lines, has not been appreciated. the third important issue is the use of water, inland waterway and maritime transport as less polluting modes, alongside rail. there are many more problems, from technical issues, energy issues, price management, to knowledge and public behavior. to tackle all these problems, a full analysis of the transport situation and its surroundings and specific integrated actions are needed.
madam president! mr albertini's report takes account of all the decisive elements of a sustainable transport policy, taking into account environmental protection and energy policy. transport consumes over 30% of energy, and this consumption is expected to increase by 30% in 20 years. the sector consumes 70% of oil and in cities and urban agglomerations generates 40% of co2 and 70% of emissions of other harmful compounds. the rapporteur supports technological innovation and other measures to save energy. the european union needs to act swiftly and efficiently. the most environmentally and economically beneficial energy in the face of the sharp rise in oil prices is electricity, which should play a greater role in transport, including urban transport, for example by building cheap electric city cars. the increase in demand for this energy should be met by the latest generation of nuclear power plants with no harmful emissions.
mr. albertini, you did a great job. thank you very much. thank you. i also agree with what commissioner barrot said. what i particularly like is the combination of policies which are accepted by the citizens, namely technological development, market instruments, accompanying measures to increase the rationalization of the use of transport. i would add to this a policy of efficient transport, both on a micro and macro scale. i am pleased that we are also including the baltic sea area in the concentration of activities. these are certainly positive statements. but for the trans-european networks, i agree with the idea, we only had expectations of 20 billion euros in 2008, we get 8 billion. i would like to ask everyone to pay more attention to the effective use of the cohesion fund in the transport part! this is true of the new countries, where the situation is very different, but generally not very good. i would also like to make it clear that there are limits to the internalisation of external costs in transport, and, commissioner, that limit must be to avoid a negative impact on the competitiveness of the european union's economy. and lastly, let the single european railway market become a reality!
member of the commission. − mr president, on 18 january the commission adopted the proposal for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the united kingdom, and we are happy and satisfied that the committee on budgets’ opinion is quite positive towards our proposal. along with amending budget no 1/2008, we also proposed the allocation of eur 162 million from the solidarity fund for the uk in order to compensate for the serious damage caused by last summer’s floods. as the chairman of committee on budgets has already said, we have recently received requests from two member states – greece and slovenia – and we will probably be presenting a new proposal very soon. of course, this proposal is not only about the solidarity fund. it is only the solidarity fund that will have financial implications: other elements of the proposal are more technical. the galileo question, of course, is very sensitive to all of us and i fully understand the concerns of the committee on budgets. however, i must say that the proposal of the committee on budgets to change the commission proposal will delay delivery of the solidarity fund by about one month because it will have to go back to council for another vote, but we understand the sensitivity and we cannot argue with the decision of the committee on budgets on this matter. however, i very much hope that our proposal in general will be supported this week in parliament.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. solidarity is the most important and beautiful principle of the european union. without it, there can be no joint action by independent states and peoples. the european union solidarity fund was created as a natural consequence of the principle of solidarity. we have a billion euros a year at our disposal. that's a small amount, especially given that last year, as well as this year, we've been dealing with a rise in climate disasters. not only are we being hit by floods and hurricanes, but we're also being hit by fires of unprecedented intensity. we are now able to save money and provide a small amount of aid, i.e. 3 to 4% of the losses, or even less, and so, in support of the report by mr boge and the draft amending budget by mr virrankoski, i am also calling for a gradual increase in the solidarity fund. really, 2 euros per citizen in the funds received is not enough to wipe away tears with such huge losses.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the following points. firstly, it is regrettable that the council has not yet adopted the commission proposal for a regulation of the parliament and of the council establishing the european union solidarity fund, despite the fact that the european parliament adopted its position on this matter at first reading almost two years ago in may 2006. secondly, the mobilisation of eur 162 million to deal with the damage caused by the floods of june and july 2007 in the uk and ireland, which amounted to almost eur 5 billion, deserves support. it is unfortunate that the funds for this purpose are granted many months after the damage has occurred, which may have a negative impact on the effectiveness of the aid granted. in poland, we have a saying for such occasions: "he who gives quickly gives twice". thirdly, since the ceiling of the solidarity fund is set at eur 1 billion, i would hope that in the event of damage of a similar nature to that in the united kingdom, the appropriate measures will be mobilised both in a short time and, moreover, that the needs of both the old and the new member states will be treated equally.
mr. chairman, please! the eu solidarity fund is very well received by the member states and in particular by the citizens of our community. the fund provides assistance to those affected by disasters of various kinds which have caused significant damage. this involves a certain loss, which is a significant loss, a budget reduction for many families. such assistance from eu funds is an example of our solidarity in the european family. for the european families and citizens who are suffering, this is the best example of the benefits and benefits that the european community brings when the need arises. however, we must focus our efforts - and the funding available from the eu budget - on addressing the causes and perpetrators of these situations and on establishing adequate crisis management and insurance systems.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of the committee on fisheries, i have two comments to make on this report. the report is of a very specialised nature. it's very detailed, but it's mostly because of the subject matter. it's hard to present this area of the case any other way. however, the agreement is much broader in scope, as it also addresses other values that are important to the parties involved in this cooperation. i want to thank the commissioner again.
mr. chairman, please! 2009 is the year of increased prospects for europe, which the treaty of lisbon will bring. it is also a year of hope for a deeper european unity through new elections to the european parliament. as mr barroso mentioned, we will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. i'll remind you that it fell in warsaw. it will also be the fifth anniversary of the accession of the former communist states to the european union. it has not always been a solidarity-based process: the polish farmer must continue to compete on an unequal basis with the farmer of the old union. however, i believe that 2009 will erase the differences between our countries, at least on a psychological level, and increase the sense of unity and the power of the european union.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the annual policy strategy paper is dramatically silent on one of the most vital issues for europe’s future: external energy security policy. our house, by an overwhelming majority, adopted the report recognising the need for an urgent energy supply security policy. since then, the situation has worsened, and we are looking at an increase in dependency, coupled with lack of progress in reducing it. for example, the nabucco project – the diversification flagship of the eu, identified in 2007 by the european council as one of the most critical projects of european interest – is, according to some, seriously threatened, if not dead. europe needs its common energy security policy now. this should be reflected in the 2009 policy strategy of the commission. it is not, i deeply regret. the whole strategy must not be short-sighted.
in writing. i have carefully analysed the commission's annual strategy for 2009. since i am particularly familiar with the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and the economic context of integration, i will take the liberty of referring to a few of the key points in the strategy. in europe, we need a new way of thinking about the sme sector. we must give it priority and give it the opportunities it deserves. i was very pleased to read in this document that the commission continues to make it a priority to remove unnecessary barriers to smes' development. it is also important to commit ourselves to continuing work on the european charter for small enterprises, which i hope will help us to think first of the interests of the smallest and then to put them into a global context. it is very important to promote and support innovation strategies, and to recognise the importance and need for cooperation between the scientific and business communities. equally important is the part that speaks of the priority role of citizens in the union, treated as consumers. information and communication to the public is in dire need of improvement. in my contacts with voters, i have noticed a widespread lack of knowledge about how the union works and what benefits it brings to all citizens. it is important to send clear messages to citizens on issues that are close to their hearts. the european union must become close, friendly and understandable to our citizens, whether they are entrepreneurs, consumers or both.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is good that we are finalising the legislative work today on the establishment of the european institute of innovation and technology. the setting up of the governing board and the knowledge and innovation communities will be the next step towards a common knowledge market in the european union. during his recent visit to poland, commissioner verheugen reiterated that the integration of the new member states into the structures of the common market had strengthened its potential and had been a success for all. i urge you to use this positive experience as a guide for us in this matter as well. the institute's board will be located in wrocław, which will be a step forward in the area of european cohesion. it will facilitate the support of new countries for increased r&d funding in the future union budget. it will ultimately unlock the innovation potential of the whole of europe. support for wrocław's candidacy is not a matter of narrow selfishness, but a natural consequence of reasoning in terms of the interests of the entire european union.
mr. chairman, please! the european council will decide in three months which european city will host the governing board of the european institute of technology. it's going to be a political decision, and a substantive one. as part of the equalization of opportunities between the old and the new union, an agglomeration of countries that have recently joined the european union will emerge. for substantive reasons, but also taking into account the political criterion i mentioned, i think that the ideal, ideal center seems to be the polish city of wroclaw, whose history has been created and co-created for centuries by, in addition to poles, czechs, austrians, jews and germans. the arguments in favour of wrocław are: the high intellectual potential, the fact that it is a strong academic centre, the high concentration of capital and major companies, including foreign ones, in the lower silesia region they can be partners for the eit, and finally the close distance from two other eu member states: germany and the czech republic. wrocław has produced a number of nobel prize winners in various fields. wrocław already has a very strong scientific cooperation with many universities and research centres throughout europe and beyond. i believe that the decision to establish wrocław as the seat of the council of the european institute of technology will be optimal from the point of view of the harmonious development of science and technology in the union, which must remove the divisions between the old and the new europe.
mr. chairman, please! the minute's silence has, of course, certain consequences. i'm not talking about the financials. the idea of innovation, which is to be concretised through a knowledge community, has become a key element of the programme discussions, and the rapporteur has a lot to say about this. my country, which has no direct interest in the idea of establishing the institute, sees the opportunity for the communities to function in a cleverly designed relationship with the institute. but without limiting their far-reaching independence. governmental actors are exposing the practical, understandable values of the communities, seeing them as a kind of driving force behind the knowledge triangle of education, research and industry. they also confirm the willingness of european research communities to create communities focused on start-ups in three sectors: renewable energy, climate change and information technologies. it is my duty as a member of parliament, but also my pleasure, to state that the city of wrocław, a well-known polish scientific centre, has a special place in this group.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to take this opportunity to express my satisfaction with the importance which the community attaches to the need for innovation in europe. this is particularly important for the new member states, for whom innovative technologies represent a chance for a leap forward and a major acceleration of development. and that is why we strongly support the well-prepared project of the city of wrocław, which is seeking to place the seat of the institute's governing council in this city. if not strasbourg, which would save us from expensive trips every month, then wroclaw wroclaw, which lies on the border of old and new europe, not the capital, but a vibrant city with excellent universities and nearly 150 thousand students. both the polish national authorities, the wroclaw local government and the polish academic community are fully prepared for this task. the location of the institute of innovation and technology in wrocław would be purely symbolic and in no way contrary to the criterion of excellence. the network of knowledge and innovation communities within the european institute must also be spread evenly across the european union. the institute should be an instrument for mobilising the entire territory of the community and contribute to the increase of competitiveness, innovation and technological progress and, consequently, to the economic development of the entire territory of the european union. i believe that through initiatives such as the eiit, we can meet the challenges of a global knowledge-based economy, delivering on the ambitious goals of the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of creating a european institute of technology, which was born three years ago, was initially greeted with great scepticism, all the more so as the current compromise text of the regulation is to be considered a great success. the institute could be operational as early as this summer, following the council's decision in june on its location, and the proposed structure of the network of knowledge and innovation communities has the potential to become an excellent driver of innovation across the union. as rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, my priority was to ensure that the legal basis was adequate and, consequently, to enable the institute to be continuously financed. i am glad that the council has accepted these proposals. the revision of the financial perspective for 2007-13 already allows for the financing of the institute to reach some eur 309 million, and this is a good start. i hope that the mid-term review will help to find the remaining 2 billion euros for the entire project. the emergence of an elite is particularly important for the scientific community in the new member states, which have a great untapped potential. i therefore think that the proposal to locate one of the eiit's structures in wrocław - a city where over 140 000 students study - will be an excellent european investment in the future. finally, i would like to congratulate and thank reino paasilinna for her excellent work.
mr. chairman, please! my hungarian colleague, the member of parliament from budapest, said that even during the iron curtain, there was cooperation between scientific communities in europe, but the truth must be told: the iron curtain also divided the sciences in europe into two circuits, the western one, which developed in the free world with the support of financial support, and the eastern one. it would be good if the european institute of technology, which we will be setting up today or tomorrow, not only created the opportunity for the european union to participate in the global innovation competition, in the global struggle for knowledge, but also contributed to linking these two circuits separated by history. i join my polish colleagues who have recommended the city of wrocław as a possible location for either the headquarters or one of the branches, and i want to say that the authorities of this city are ready to invest the financial resources so necessary for this project to succeed.
mr. chairman, please! we all agree today that we should invest as much as possible in an open society, a knowledge-based society, to catch up with the world, to keep pace with the growing world economy, we should invest as much as possible in funding and also in debate to keep pace with europe. i would also like to point out that the location of the future institute is a matter of great importance. it should be an innovative region, a region of young open minds, a region of great potential, a region, which is very important, a pioneering region, a region that will be suspended between the east and the west of europe. the polish city of wrocław, which i would like to recommend to you, meets all these requirements. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have taken part in such a constructive debate.
mr. chairman, please! the creation of a coherent economic area, the single european market, was the basis for the creation of the communities and then the european union. the next step is to make the european economy modern and competitive. and we can only do that if we invest in education, research, new technologies and broadly defined innovation. we will not meet these challenges unless industry supports the implementation of science and new technologies and local governments invest in education. governments should focus on higher education and support basic scientific research. the european union, on the other hand, should focus on fostering and creating innovation. we see that these tasks are the responsibility of the member states as well as the institutions of the union.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the second reading in the european parliament is another step closer to the creation of the european institute of innovation and technology. it has been a long time since josé barroso proposed the creation of such an institution in february 2005. it was to be an institution supporting the implementation of the lisbon strategy, which was then half-way through and did not produce the intended effects. i am aware that one of the cities that is bidding to host the eiit is wroclaw, poland. i am also aware that in poland and in other places that would welcome the institute (vienna, munich, sant cugat-barcelona, paris, oxford, brussels, budapest, nuremberg, aachen) there are exaggerated expectations about the 2.4 billion euro budget allocated to the institute. this is the total expenditure for the institute and the knowledge and innovation communities (kics) network, which would absorb the majority of the funds. moreover, i am convinced that the creation of the institute cannot be a guarantee of structural reforms which are crucial for the innovation and competitiveness of the european union. however, knowing the ambition of wroclaw and the quality of its governance, i am convinced that this is the right place for the eiit and i am pleased with the progress made towards the establishment of this institution.
mr. chairman, please! i voted to accept mr costa's report. it is almost six years since regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 was adopted. since it came into force, two and a half years. concerns about passenger safety at airports and on airplanes are still very much alive. civil aviation security will cause a drastic increase in the cost of flights and a decrease in travel comfort. another issue is the cost of protection there must be as much transparency as possible, the consumer must know what and how the money he pays for his air ticket is being spent. the fees charged for protection should be used solely to cover the costs of protection. the money raised for this purpose may not be used for any other purpose.
mr. chairman, please! very briefly on this report. i voted yes because no matter how powerful any country is, it's powerless against the vis-a-major. financing exceptional expenditure at the time of the declaration of an emergency situation facilitates the recovery of the damage caused by weather conditions or disasters. it's obvious.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal that a community agreement should replace certain provisions of the bilateral agreements currently in force. the rapporteur, mr paolo costa, on air fares and rates, rightly introduces a clause which prohibits third-country carriers from being price leaders in air transport services provided entirely within the community.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mrs lidia joanny geringer de oedenberg on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the statistical classification of economic activities in the european community. i have read the rapporteur's report with particular interest. i am in favour of adopting the report because i believe that community law should be clearer and more understandable, and therefore more transparent and accessible to every citizen. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 3037/90 of 9 october 1990 on the statistical classification of economic activities in the european community. as a lawyer, in my explanation of how to vote, i want to emphasize the importance of codification, which is a very important process of bringing together a large body of legislation in one single, systematized set from which the basic legal norms can be interpreted. i am very concerned about the simplification and streamlining of community law.
in writing. - i voted for the report. and a few words of explanation. there's a saying that "nothing is more permanent than a temporary fix". we've been living that saying for a year. when the ban on liquids and other liquids was introduced, we were told that it would be temporary. the procedures were to be reviewed rapidly and special devices were to be installed to detect dangerous substances. no, that's not what happened. what about the passengers? the passengers are used to the inconvenience... they treat them as if they've always existed and were necessary. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. but i would like to thank parliament, and especially the parliament's representatives on the conciliation committee, for their unwavering defence of these principles. while not completely successful, the results are noteworthy.
in writing. - i fully support the report by mr paasilinna. i am convinced that this institution is very much needed by the european union and its member states. it is of great interest not only to european researchers and national academic communities, but also to practitioners and, above all, to businessmen. i believe that the institute should be a mobilizing force for the whole of the union and that its components should therefore not bypass any eu country. it has a particular role to play in the new eu member states in leveling the playing field and linking the eu economies. only by combining the research potential and efforts of scholars from 'old' and 'new' europe will we be able to bridge the gap and move forward, while achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. with this in mind, i would like to make a strong appeal for the seat of the institute (the governing board) to be in my country, poland, in wrocław. it is a city at the crossroads of old and new european cultures, in close proximity to three other eu countries: germany, austria and the czech republic, with an excellent research and development infrastructure, numerous universities and a huge student population of almost 200 000. i have no doubt that wroclaw is the best place to host the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the solidarity fund is the essence of the principle of solidarity one of the foundations of the european community. the criteria for its launch have been refined over many years, eliminating the arbitrariness that was apparent even in the first attempts to launch the anti-globalization fund, the new budgetary institution of the european union set up under the financial perspectives 2007-2013. the long waiting time for the application of the measure was a major shortcoming, which was strongly emphasised in the case of the solidarity fund, and was noted by the countries applying for the measure. paradoxically, the union was able to react more quickly to aid to third countries than to its own member states. the proposal to mobilise the fund for the united kingdom and northern ireland affected by the floods of june and july 2007 meets all the formal criteria. the response of the committee on regional development, which in its own way hastened the parliamentary procedure, deserves credit. the european commission's delay is difficult to explain. its request, dated 18 january 2008, was made six months after the natural disaster and the united kingdom's swift application. this is part of the bad tradition of late application of the solidarity fund and requires improvements in the implementing rules, which the european parliament has been calling for since 18 may 2006.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the first amending budget in the course of the implementation of the 2008 budgetary plan covers items grouped under the common heading of 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseeable circumstances'. the first point certainly fits into this category, namely the launch of the solidarity fund for the united kingdom, which was hit by the disasters of storms and floods last summer. it can only be noted that the delay in the mobilisation of funds, resulting from a late proposal from the european commission, is becoming an unholy tradition. similarly, point 5 calls for the creation of a budget article 27 01 11 (exceptional emergency expenditure to finance exceptional expenditure in the event of a declaration of emergency). the other three items, however, which are included in the common budgetary envelope, are of a different nature. i share the rapporteur's doubts about the funding of the research executive agency and the ercea, and the inconsistent proposal to create budget line 06 01 04 12 for the galileo programme. the modified frontex establishment plan shall be accepted. the analysis of the entire proposal and the appropriate reference to it is hampered by the diverse nature of the budgetary lines contained in am 1/2008.
in writing. - amendment 1 to the vote a6-0014/2008 sustainable european transport policy put forward by the ppe-de group raised a legitimate concern for me and for the entire transport community. this amendment is designed to delay the revision of the eurovignette directive. the adoption of this amendment would be a negative signal from the european parliament and is contrary to the report of the ep environment committee of 28 january 2008. that is why i voted against the amendment and against the whole report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am confident that the increase in milk quotas in the 2008/2009 quota year will not jeopardise the stability of the union milk market and will not lead to a significant reduction in milk prices. we would have expected more, but after hearing the arguments of mrs jeggle and other members, we supported a package of compromise amendments that would have allowed for a voluntary increase of only 2%. the press release indicates that the commissioner supports proposals to increase the annual amounts by only 1% from 2010 as part of the so-called soft landing. it's a conservative approach, although i hear the commissioner is a liberal, but let's get down to business. on the one hand, the low amounts constrain the development of the union dairy industry, reducing its competitiveness and export potential. on the other hand, it guarantees income stability for our farmers. we'll continue to discuss the best solution for the future. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking my colleague elizabeth jeggle for the enormous amount of work she has put into this report. what we are discussing today was presented three years ago when i first started working in the european parliament. for three years now we have been calling for the milk quotas to be increased in the new member states and in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk market is not distorted, and that the milk market is not distorted. the commission's report to the council on the 'market outlook for the dairy sector' also provides substantive support for my position three years ago, which predicts that the positive trends on the world milk market will continue. the milk quotas allocated to individual countries are not fully used. however, an increase of 2% in the quotas does not necessarily imply the same increase in milk production in all regions. in the union, more and more farms are abandoning milk production as too labour-intensive. so in all those countries that want to produce it, we should increase it not by 2%, but by 5%. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be given the task of developing a common policy on milk and milk products.
mr. chairman, please! mrs. jeggle has prepared a good proposal to increase the milk quota. the situation on the milk market and that of dairy farmers is a reason for raising them and for establishing a balancing system at european union level. this situation raises questions. why is the european commission so slow to respond to the need to increase milk quotas? does it intend to safeguard the interests and livelihoods of the union producers by setting the minimum price for milk at a level that ensures a profit for all union producers and that ensures that the price is below the cost of production? does the commission envisage a correction of the disparities in milk production between the old and the new member states?
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the common agricultural policy, contrary to its long-standing objectives, has tended to favour the rich farmers at the expense of the poor. the freezing of the agricultural budget in 2002 and subsequent cap reforms did not improve this situation. in contrast, the huge disparity in farmers' financing has widened, e.g. total subsidies per hectare ranged from eur 68 per hectare in latvia to eur 756 per hectare in belgium in 2005, more than tenfold. the unjustified differences in agricultural financing are also confirmed by the breakdown of direct payments, which already account for around 70% of all subsidies for agriculture. the european commission has proposed in its communication a partial reduction in payments for beneficiaries who receive more than eur 100 000 per year. the union's share is only 0,34%, and includes mega-companies, food companies and golf course owners. paradoxically, this timid proposal, which would have been against the interests of such a small group, was rejected by the parliament's agriculture committee. many proposals have been adopted, but they do not eliminate the errors of the current agricultural policy. the only amendment that creates a chance for a fairer distribution of grants is uen group amendment no 19 as proposed by the european commission. i don't think it's going to find many followers, though. of course, my amendments and those of mr wojciechowski, which aimed at radically changing the cap, were also rejected by the agri committee. the vote on mr goepel's report will be an expression of your responsibility for the shape of agricultural policy in the years ahead. if you are in favour of the sustainable development of eu agriculture and the defence of the interests of family farms rather than the interests of a small group of entrepreneurs, you should reject this report, otherwise you will suffer further rural depopulation, high unemployment, loss of food security in the union, discrimination against new member states and processes that threaten the environment. the report is a welcome step towards the main objectives of the european union, which are often forgotten: economic cohesion, social cohesion and solidarity between member states. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! what is agriculture in the european union? for some, it's a great asset to protect, but for others, and unfortunately for many, it's a burden to be rid of. the goepel report says that agriculture is one of the most important industrial sectors in the union. it's beautiful, but it's not enough. agriculture is not an industry and is not just one of many sectors of the economy. agriculture is a pillar of food security. we spend enormous sums on military and police to provide physical security in our countries and in our homes. we pay a lot of money for energy security. we look for more expensive but safe energy supplies. we must also protect our agriculture, which is the source of our food security, at great cost, and it is a pity that not everyone in the union understands this.
mr. chairman, please! the common agricultural policy has undergone many changes in recent years. not all of them were driven by the need to improve the situation in the countryside and the needs of the european union's consumers. food prices are rising and the situation for small and medium-sized farms is not improving significantly. more than domestic farms, the european commission is also supporting transnational corporations that produce genetically modified food. the european community is getting closer to losing its sovereignty in food production. the reform of the common agricultural policy is also now being proposed to destroy another group of farmers: the tobacco producers, which will lead to an economic catastrophe for nearly 100 000 of them and the loss of 400 000 jobs. it is high time that the european commission started to look more in the interests of european farmers than those of third countries.
mr. chairman, please! the common agricultural policy, despite several reforms, still falls short of expectations. the loss of food security in the european union, the many crises and the lack of mutually satisfactory common arrangements are the best examples of this. the crisis is exacerbated by the lack of coherence and discrimination against farmers in the new member states. the fact that they are worse and better, depending on the geographical location and the date of accession to the european union, really proves that the common agricultural policy is not there and will not be for a long time. despite the enormous work of your rapporteur, mr lutz goepel, the goal has not been reached and it is difficult to say whether we are any closer or further away from a sensible solution. in this situation, the minority view is correct that the commission continues to pursue a policy of supporting multinational food corporations and large landowners and that the common agricultural policy does not meet the needs of consumers or of small and medium-sized family farms, which are forced to stop production. what is needed is a new, fair agricultural policy, one that is developed by objective experts rather than by a lobby group.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate mr lutz goepel on his excellent report and thank him for the enormous effort he has put into it. the report fully reflects parliament's particular interests on the agricultural policy issue. and although expenditure in the current budgetary perspective represents only 33% of expenditure compared to 80% in the 1970s, agricultural policy is still and should be one of the most important european policies. because of the limited time available, i will present only a few of the issues that are relevant to the new member states. the introduction of modulation in the new member states should be adopted only after full payments have been received and should be phased in as it has been done in the other member states of the 15. i can't agree to the removal of the energy subsidies and subsidies that we just got. on the contrary, the union should specifically support the new direction of biomass production. i also think that the future of the milk quotas requires a wider debate and a lot of deeper analysis.
mr. chairman, please! i want to focus on two issues in this debate. firstly, the percentage of agricultural expenditure in total budget expenditure is falling steadily and will be only 32% in the last year of this financial perspective. these measures represent on average around 30% of the income of farmers in the union. it is essential to maintain this level of support in the future to maintain interest in agricultural activities and, above all, to ensure food security in europe. it should be recalled that many developed countries in the world, through various instruments, support agricultural incomes by more than 50%. these include countries like japan, south korea, norway, and switzerland. secondly, far more rapid alignment of support to farmers in the old and new member states is needed. according to the experts' calculations, the average level of support per hectare of agricultural land in the new member states between 2007 and 2013 will be only 62-64% of what farmers in the old member states receive. without these two basic requirements, it will be difficult to think of developing european agriculture.
mr. chairman, please! the current review of the union's agricultural policy aims to improve it, taking into account the experience gained since the last reform in 2003 and the situation on the world market. however, it should be borne in mind that the changes made must not undermine, firstly, the community nature of this policy we oppose its nationalisation secondly, the european model of agriculture. it is not justified that direct payments should be based on historical production levels and should be so differentiated. the future subsidy model after 2013 should be based on simple principles similar to saps. but we must also allow market intervention in emergency situations, or even subsidies for production, as in the case of tobacco or milk production in mountain areas.
mr. chairman, please! the common agricultural policy and the structural policies supporting it are facing increasingly serious challenges. the general shape of the common agricultural policy for 2007-2013, which was adopted by the european union's agriculture ministers in luxembourg on 26 june 2003, adopts solutions, some of which are beneficial for poland. some of them, however, are more protective of the interests of the old members of the european union. i share the rapporteur's view that the commission should prepare a detailed report on issues such as the additional costs incurred by farmers for complying with community standards on environmental protection, animal welfare and food safety. in response to the report presented to us, i agree that it is necessary to continue the current process of reform and further development of rural areas. the common agricultural policy must evolve to meet new challenges such as climate change, growing energy demand, a growing world population and increased openness to global markets.
i'll just add, mr. deputy rapporteur, that the same principle of cutting the highest and lowest notes is used in ski jumping and boxing. if it expands our discussion, that's good. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 march 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the follow-up to the lamfalussy procedure review by pervenche berès on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (o-0015/2008 - b6-0011/2008) and the oral question to the commission on the follow-up to the lamfalussy procedure review by pervenche berès on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (o-0016/2008 - b6-0012/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate the rapporteur on the important subject of improving the situation of women in rural areas in the european union. we have recently been discussing the demographic future of europe. we've identified a number of factors that may be responsible for her pessimistic outlook. the problem is even more acute in the countryside. all efforts must be made to ensure that rural people, especially women, have the right conditions for living and for economic and personal development. it is likely that social exclusion and poverty are more common among women in rural areas, probably because we need better statistics here. perhaps the key to improving the situation in this respect is that the spouses of self-employed persons, in this case rural women, should have their own independent social and pension rights.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in this debate on the situation of women in rural areas in the european union, i would like to point out that, particularly in the new member states, the situation of women in rural and suburban areas is difficult and sometimes dramatic, also because of the european union's policy of introducing various kinds of limits and restrictions, which cause poverty and social exclusion as a result of job losses and the inefficiency of production. in typically agricultural regions, not only in eastern poland, thousands of families are at risk of losing their livelihoods because of the economy's lack of profitability, the collapse or closure of sugar factories, the imposition of fishing limits, the subsidy of only part of soft fruit and the imposition of fines for overproduction of milk. this is the reason why infrastructure and communications are not developed, and why education, health care and various other services are not provided in the absence of economic development. this kind of disorganizing development policy also stimulates the flight of young people, including women, to the city and emigration abroad. topleader programmes can help women from only some regions (tourist attractions or known for their unique regional products) which will not even partially compensate for the losses suffered by the rural population who still await the implementation of the summit documents' keywords of sustainable development, equal opportunities and non-discrimination in all its forms.
mr. chairman, please! in recent years, there has been much talk and discussion about the role of women, their rights, their social and professional status. today we're debating the plight of the rural woman. and rightly so, because it is rural women, especially in the less developed regions, who work the hardest and enjoy the least of their rights. women in the city have a comfortable home, easy access to technology, education and culture, the right to maternity and parental leave, the opportunity to work and enjoy the benefits of civilization. a rural woman often has a house without plumbing, numerous responsibilities in the family and on the farm. she cannot count on a place for her child in nursery and kindergarten, and her contact with the world and culture often comes down to limited radio and television broadcasting. a woman from a small colonial village living on a family farm is virtually denied any chance of advancement in her career, social, political or cultural life. please note that cultural funding is mainly directed to urban centres. we have almost everything there. in the countryside, there is only amateur activity, and it is often done in one's own home and at one's own expense. in the european union, there is a lot of talk about lifelong learning, and rightly so. but let's make sure there's a woman in these programs. i believe it is high time for a meaningful programme for women, funded from the union budget.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of women in rural areas is markedly different from that of women in urban areas. it's not just about access to health care and education. i would like to draw attention to paragraphs 4 and 10 of the report, which stress the need to ensure equal social and economic rights for women who are selfemployed or employed on family farms. in particular, the right to paid maternity leave and to a pension derived from earnings. in some countries there are even legal prohibitions on formal employment and social security for members of family farms and family businesses. the effects of these provisions are primarily directed at women and should be changed as soon as possible. i congratulate the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, please! in rural areas, women are a particularly vulnerable group. because of the traditional division of roles, the poor infrastructure in many areas, such as childcare, many women never appear in the official labour market and therefore are not even registered as unemployed. women perform work comparable to a profession, but not recognised as such, not protected or paid. member states, together with the european commission, should address as soon as possible the problem of the large number of women working in family farms or small and medium-sized enterprises, which in many member states do not have a fixed legal status. this leads to financial and legal problems for these women in terms of their right to maternity leave, medical leave, pension rights and access to the social security system. for the purpose of harmonious development, member states should ensure the creation of high-quality jobs in rural areas by, inter alia, promoting entrepreneurship among women, upskilling them and ensuring easy access to standard 21st century infrastructure and services in all rural areas. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs klaß on a very well-prepared report.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. i read with great interest the proposals prepared by my colleague csaba sándor tabajdi. i congratulate him on a great report. in the current world situation, with oil and other energy sources such as gas prices rising rapidly or undergoing unpredictable fluctuations that make it difficult to rationally plan and cost investments, and with the energy needs of european countries also increasing, the biogas report seems to be a very necessary document. this report shows how much we can still do to develop this branch of energy production. after all, many times more energy can be produced from these sources without degrading the environment. supporting beneficiaries with funds for regional and rural development will provide a positive impetus for this development. it is also necessary that the commission and the governments of the individual countries take special care of the producers of this type of energy and support this development through specific financial incentive mechanisms. i therefore fully support the rapporteur's view that the european commission should step up its efforts to promote the development of energy from renewable sources and include it in europe's energy strategy. it is particularly important for us europeans that the european union, by increasing its diversification, becomes energy independent of exports as soon as possible.
on behalf of the uen group. - mr president! - i have to go. the implementation of the proposals set out in the report by mr tabajdi would certainly make a major step forward in increasing biogas production. it would also be a step towards sustainable agriculture by eliminating a lot of plant and animal waste, manure, sewage sludge and renewable energy. however, biogas production has its drawbacks. it is unprofitable at current production and selling prices and still leaves waste, but more concentrated. we have to weigh the pros and cons of a cold. my group has done so and we believe that even with the technology now available, we should support mr tabajdi's report. perhaps other technologies will allow production processes to be modernized, and rising energy prices will make it more economically efficient. but the environmental achievements are undeniable, and that's the most important thing.
madam president! the report by mr sándor tabajdi tackles a problem of great importance for farmers, the economy and the environment. biogas reduces the cost of importing natural gas, reduces the amount of methane released into the atmosphere, and is a fuel that can be used directly in agricultural production and for municipal purposes. the recycling of manure, waste and municipal waste from biogas production has a positive impact on the environment. unfortunately, the level of biogas production in the eu countries varies widely. the union institutions should take action in this area, such as: improving the functioning of legal and economic rules to stimulate the development of biofuels production; accelerating the research programme related to the improvement of biofuel production technology, including from biomass, organic waste, sewage and manure; implementing a programme of information dissemination and promotion of good practices achieved by german, belgian or danish farmers.
mr. chairman, please! the role of gas is important firstly in diversifying gas supplies, secondly in combating climate change, and thirdly in improving the environment and thus in protecting it. additionally, consider that biogas is produced from household waste, organic waste, manure and manure. biogas is a very important source of renewable energy. it can be used to generate energy, it's a good heat source, it can also be used to power a car. more cars could use biogas, but its availability and cost-effectiveness should be ensured. but we need to use new technologies to produce second-generation biogas. finally, stable conditions for biogas development and appropriate financial support instruments should be developed.
madam president! i congratulate the rapporteur on a great report. i also congratulate the commissioner on the initiative taken by the commission. i support this report, first of all because it concerns the common energy policy and in particular the common foreign energy policy. there is another reason, and for me it is even more important: we leave the choice of primary energy sources (energy mix) to the member states, while reducing co2 emissions and creating a common energy market. if we want to compare costs and in the future find out which zero-emission solutions are the best, which solutions are the most economical, we need to have a comparison base. so the single market and competition in it, and above all effective investment, requires good, comparable statistics. they are needed by investors, particularly private investors, if we are to have an effective energy market policy. we will also be able to compare data from different member states on different prices and costs, which is impossible with today's statistics, especially because of the lack of data on renewable energy sources. there's one final question left. who and how will be able to use this data? it is not clear in this respect and will be decided by practice. it's very important that we pay attention to this in the future, how much data is going to be available and how to protect that part of the data that should not be published.
mr. chairman, please! the basic information that member states should collect is the quantity of preparations used. this will allow member states to carry out an individual analysis, i.e. in line with the intention of the national plans. producers should provide information on the use of pesticides that is vital to them. national data should be aggregated in each member state and transmitted in aggregated form to the commission. such aggregated information is sufficient for further analyses at union level. in regulating the obligations of the member states, we should avoid giving local authorities the task of collecting detailed information which is of no use, creating confusion and discouraging the member states from implementing the directive's noble idea.
mr. chairman, please! energy security should of course be one of the main elements of the european union's energy policy. energy security cannot be achieved unless we act in concert with others, unless the european union speaks with one voice. this is not the case with the nabucco pipeline, a project of strategic importance for europe. i think that the next council should take up this matter and make the union act as one body on this matter and also take into account the fact that a second pipeline, the construction of which is supported by various european countries, may make the nabucco project simply not, in practical terms, feasible. there just won't be enough gas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. chairman, please! the lisbon strategy, so praised by president barroso, was supposed to allow us to catch up economically with the united states. as you can see, hear and feel, not only have we, as europe, not overtaken the united states, but we are also losing to asia. the european union is a rabbit that is being chased, but whose arms, god forbid, should not be caught. if we really wanted to boost the european economy and make it more efficient, the european commission would not, as it has done in recent years, impose barriers to our economic growth, even in terms of restricting the freedom to provide services within the european union and the freedom to take up employment. either we take the declaration seriously, or we create a theatre where we declare slogans and curse reality, in practice doing the opposite, holding back development. the commission is responsible for the overregulation of the economy, for the excessive number of directives, concessions, for all this excessive dependence of the economy on bureaucracy, including the euro-bureaucracy. as regards the fight against climate change - and i am thinking here of carbon dioxide - we would like to see the costs of this fight not be disproportionately burdened on the economies of the new member states, because that would be throwing a baby out with a bathtub.
mr. chairman, please! eight years ago, the lisbon strategy set out the objectives of making europe a priority for growth faster than the united states, while ensuring sustainable employment growth. both cases were officially declared failures. there is a lack of coherence between the lisbon strategy and, for example, the common agricultural policy, which is treated as an instrument. this is demonstrated, for example, by the reform of the sugar market, which the european commission has implemented in many cases without regard to the social context. one example is the case of the lublin sugar factory in poland, where, in violation of even eu regulations, it is intended not only to lay off all the staff, demolish all the buildings and destroy the modern installations, but also to deprive the growers of work in the entire region. one-time compensation doesn't solve the employment problem. this practice runs counter to the stated objectives of the lisbon strategy. such absurd moves do not bring us any closer to its objectives.
mr. chairman, please! the forthcoming council will be discussing projects relating to the internal market in energy and gas. the division of energy and transmission ownership is a matter of critical importance no matter who sits in the kremlin. medvedev's russia will not change its policy of energy blackmailing our neighbours, as well as the member states. saving energy and increasing the share of renewable energy in our balance sheets is only part of the answer to these problems. the full implementation of the european energy policy must take into account the political aspect. we need to be clear about what we expect from russia and gazprom in terms of reciprocity. this russian monopoly is present in 16 eu countries as an energy supplier or transmission network owner. if we do not put a limit on this aggressive monopoly, we can put the energy solidarity clauses of the lisbon treaty in the fairy tale.
mr. chairman, please! the spring council is a very special occasion. economic growth in the european union is slowing down, we have financial market turbulence, oil prices are rising, inflation is rising. all of this creates an atmosphere of uncertainty and increases fear for the future. against this background, i think that president barroso's assessment of the situation is overly optimistic. it is difficult to boast of the creation of 6 million jobs, because it happened in a period of cyclical acceleration of growth in the last two years. and it's hard to say, based on one or two years of accelerating productivity growth, that we're going to have a constantly high rate of productivity. the potential growth rate in europe is still too low. that is why i believe that at the next summit the european union must send a clear signal to the citizens of europe that it is capable of dealing with these threats. these uncertainties and fears, which are part of the current economic situation, must be resolved by decisions, not words. until now, too many summits have ended in declarations that have not led to anything. we are now waiting, and i am addressing this to the council representative here in the chamber, for concrete decisions from the member states and the council. finally, the last point, which is particularly important in the context of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon in the coming months. the lisbon treaty must give hope and encouragement to the people of europe and this is why the next council must be a strong signal to the people of europe that the situation will improve.
in writing. – the eu summit agenda seems to make us freeze. global warming will trigger a dangerous contest over energy resources. the solana/ferrero-waldner report points to the kremlin’s grab for the arctic. the ice is melting, so ‘the scramble for resources will intensify’. geo-strategically speaking, the thawing arctic will open new trade routes for everybody; for russians, too. in the meantime, the eu broke the ice in kosovo. the local warming hit the ceiling. serbia lost part of its territory. islam has made another step forward. it is amazing that the eu has sent its troops to fight against radical islam in iraq and afghanistan, at the same time it covers the assailants’ civilisation in europe. the archbishop of montenegro regrets that the united states has acted like the old testament ahab, great britain forgot its struggle for the falklands, now it dares to threaten the fate of a christian country, while germany does not seem to bear in mind 1914, 1941 and kragujevac any more. apparently, the archbishop seems to forget that the german soul embraces to hegel, feuerbach and nietzsche, rather than to goethe and schiller. however, the archbishop remembers that the italian mussolini had incorporated kosovo to the fascist albania.
mr. chairman, please! the conditions were not conducive to speaking. i wanted to refer to the vote on the 2% increase in milk quotas starting next month. i believe that this decision of parliament will help to develop agriculture, especially in those countries which have unfortunately had these amounts underestimated up to now, including my own country. i should like to say that yesterday, when we voted on the european institute of technology, i wanted to vote in favour of this report, and not as i did by mistake.
mr. chairman, please! the amendments contained in the draft council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and the specific provisions for certain agricultural products as regards national milk quotas appear to be fully justified. in particular, the initiative to increase the current milk quota ceilings by 2% deserves recognition. poland, which i represent at the forum, is the fourth largest producer of ec milk, producing 12 billion litres of this product a year. in this context, the amendment is particularly important for farmers and processors of dairy products in my country. i would also like to say that i agree with the view expressed in the text of amendment no 13, that milk production is particularly important for regions with poorly developed agricultural infrastructure, which prevents the cultivation of crops or the breeding of animals on a large scale.
mr. chairman, please! i am in favour of this report, which proposes an increase of only 2% in 2008-09 because that was necessary to reach a compromise. i proposed a 4% increase because i think that with such an increase we could see how to preserve the market and that in turn would allow us to draw conclusions on the basis of which we could make decisions whether to leave or to remain with the quota system at the current level or at the changed level, i am talking about the change in quotas after 31 march 2015. a greater increase in the amounts is necessary, particularly in my country, poland, where the production amounts per capita are much lower than in the old member states. in poland, too, we have a very low consumption of dairy products. we should be able to cover the increase in consumption with our own production, because we have good conditions for this production, and the farmers have been given low production limits. this information suggests that milk quantities will need to be increased in the future.
mr. chairman, please! the role of the european union is to legislate and create solutions that will ensure, first, stability and development for farms; second, an adequate level of income for farmers, comparable to other occupations; third, food security for the public; and fourth, universal access to food for the low-income earners. in my opinion, mr goepel's report is heading in that direction. however, we must take into account that farmers are engaged in a specific activity - open-air production, dependent on climatic conditions, which cannot be increased overnight, for example by introducing second shift work. agricultural products are an important part of trade, hence the conditions and rules of trade on the global market have a significant impact on european agriculture (i am thinking here of the wto negotiations). farming is not just about production, but also about maintaining the landscape, about the environment. all this dictates the complexity of the issues and the need to introduce appropriate support instruments within the framework of the common agricultural policy.
i voted for the report on the situation of women in rural areas in the european union because it is a very interesting and important subject. the approach taken to this issue shows a different face of the european union. the subject is very close to my heart because of my background, my professional interests and also my parliamentary activities. despite these positive changes, women still perform many more duties, especially at home, in the family, than men. and in rural areas, the burden on women is even greater. after poland's entry into the european union, we see an improvement in living conditions, an increase in income. this has an impact on the daily lives of rural women. it's the beginning of a change, but thankfully it is.
in writing. − i was in favour of the position that the eu milk market should be opened up more rapidly than planned in an existing draft proposal and voted for an increase of the milk quota, although an increase of 5% as demanded by poland was not presented to plenary. no majority for this proposal could be found in the ep. poland’s restrictive milk quota threatens to transform the country from a net exporter of dairy products to a net importer within five to seven years. the eu allocated poland by far the largest quota offered to any of the 10 accession countries, representative of poland’s position as the eu-25’s fourth largest milk producer when it joined the eu in may 2004. poland’s quota, nevertheless, is seen as small relative to the larger quotas of europe’s top three milk producers – germany, france and britain. the quotas are the legacy of bygone era when europe’s dairies produced infamous lakes of milk and the eu had to help to keep prices from collapsing. the raising of the milk quota can be seen as the beginning of phasing out the quotas as the eu milk quota system is due to expire in 2015.
in writing. - in view of the shortage of milk in european countries for own consumption and for export, which leads to malnutrition of children from poor families and reduces the export opportunities of our countries, i voted in favour of amendments 18-20, i.e. block 1. although these amendments were rejected, i voted in favour of the resolution as a whole, because the 2% increase in milk quotas, although not sufficient, is a step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, it is better to increase the price by even 2 percent than to make no changes at all.
in writing. − while not diminishing the importance of cities and large agglomerations, it is important to remember that most of europe's social and economic life is in rural areas. i therefore welcomed the report by christy klaß on the situation of women in rural areas. our discussion of this issue fits well into the general debate surrounding the celebration of international women's day. i support the main idea of this report, that rural development cannot be based solely on agriculture. the eu's agricultural policy aims to ensure real sustainable development of rural areas, giving people, including women, an extra chance to better exploit their potential. it is about their wider involvement in local communities, their involvement in the creation of new businesses, their participation in the growing service sector. it should be emphasised that the overriding principle which should dominate the definition of the functioning of rural areas is equality of opportunity between women and men, assessed inter alia through women's access to the labour market. unfortunately, female participation rates are lower in rural areas because women working in rural farms are not always included in the labour force and have fewer opportunities for paid work compared to urban areas. this disadvantage can only be reversed by changing the mindset of the population and by the new financial incentives that the eu is putting in place for rural areas.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on sustainable agriculture and biogas: the need to review eu legislation (2007/2107 (ini)). the rapporteur, mr sándor tabajdi, rightly pointed out that the energy potential of biogas, which is similar to and can replace natural gas, should be exploited. i agree with the formula that investment in biogas production should be encouraged through various means, including eu funds for regional and rural development.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr csaba, sándor tabajdi, on sustainable agriculture and biogas: a review of community legislation. i believe that there are important economic and environmental reasons for supporting the european parliament's motion for a resolution on sustainable agriculture and biogas, especially as this entails the need to look more closely at the european union's legislation on this issue. this would be a milestone towards the european commission's white paper target of increasing renewable energy from 6% in 1995 to 12% by 2010. the potential of biogas produced from natural materials such as animal manure is still not fully exploited. meanwhile, intensifying its production would not only reduce carbon emissions but also increase competitiveness by opening up new income opportunities for farmers. it should be borne in mind that this is one of the cheapest sources of heating energy, which would greatly help the countries of the union to become independent of natural gas supplies. i support the position of the pse group, which urges the european commission to incorporate the new biogas production strategy into the kyoto mechanism as soon as possible.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i too join in congratulating the rapporteur on the preparation of this report. ladies and gentlemen! in a few days, on march 20th, it will be exactly five years since the start of the second gulf war by the forces of the international coalition. unfortunately, not all the member states of the european union made the political decision to support the united states at that time. the lack of unanimity in 2003 still has a negative impact on the potential role that the european union could play in the reconstruction of iraq, and we have a range of financial and political instruments that, if used effectively, can contribute to supporting a secure and democratic iraq, which will immediately translate into greater stability for the whole region. of course, i agree with the rapporteur that iraq needs not only financial aid but also support in the area of rebuilding state institutions and civil society. let's remember that for decades of iraqi dictatorship, the public administration was more about controlling the citizens than serving the public. in preparing the new eu strategy for the future engagement in iraq, we must also not forget the dialogue with the united states, especially in the field of security and defence policy. i am convinced that good cooperation with the united states is one of the main conditions for building a secure and stable iraq.
madam president! if we want to have partners in iraq to build democracy as a foundation for peaceful coexistence, then we need investment. i remember when i was a student, in poland, there were young people from this world in high schools, just like that. who knows, maybe now in the european union, we can't offer young iraqis, not when they're 24, but earlier, so that they can stay with us, learn to do this, to look at it with a critical eye, of course, and what's good, from us, to transfer back there, what's not good, they can do it better at home. i would like to present a proposal for a school, not even an academic one, and we know that politics depends on people, and within your competence this element can also have a place.
the chairman of the council. − i would like to thank everyone for the views and opinions on this topic, which will certainly be useful for future activities. i would like to make one comment and one answer here. mrs. záborská asked about the kidnapping of a catholic chaldean bishop. i would point out that on this subject the presidency issued a statement on march 1 strongly condemning this abduction and calling for the unconditional and immediate release of the chaldean archbishop. secondly, mr mladenov and some others have pointed out the fact that the security, the establishment of a secure situation in iraq is primarily the responsibility of iraq or the iraqi authorities. it is true, but it is also true that we must help them to do so, and i would mention once again the eujust lex mission, which has been operating in iraq since 2005 and in which almost all the member states of the european union are participating. the mission has already trained approximately 1500 senior iraqi officials, police, judicial and prison staff. this mission, as i have already mentioned, will continue until the summer of 2009, and we consider it to be a significant step forward in the process of establishing a more secure situation in iraq. i would like to thank mrs gomes again for her report, which will serve as a very useful basis for the preparation of our future activities. among these, i should mention in particular that it is planned that the president of the general affairs and external relations council, minister rupel, will attend the april meeting of the countries neighbouring iraq, which will take place in kuwait.
member of the commission. − madam president, it was a good debate and it showed that we want to use the golden opportunity to finally reconstruct iraq and make it a stable country in the middle east, because i fully agree that this will be a very important goal for all of us. i would first like to clearly state that you may rest assured that we will pursue our course of action. thank you for the positive words concerning our head of delegation who works there with a few staff members in very difficult circumstances – housed by the british embassy, by the way. he and his people are doing a very good job. we have been working with the un trust fund because, at the time, nothing else was possible. after the visit by my directors and their assessment, we will cautiously see what we can do regarding capacity-building and institution-building. we fully understand that this is very dear to many of you, but please also understand that security costs will be very high. whatever we do there directly will be very costly, otherwise it would not be possible. outside the green zone, circumstances are very difficult, except perhaps in the few areas where there are fewer security problems, one of these being the north. i do not rule out gradually working more directly, for instance in the north, but i must stress that we always have to be sure that we do not discriminate between different groups. this is something i would also like to say to mr belder. this is how we have been working with our projects. we have always tried to have projects that include all groups, including the christian groups that are finding it very difficult in iraq at this time with this government. having said this, i would just like to bring to the attention of many of you who do not always see what we are doing that, for instance, we prepared successfully for the general elections held in 2005. we have rehabilitated hundreds of primary and secondary schools, which is not only for the benefit of the schools but also for the pupils. erasmus programmes are also open for some iraqis, so we are pursuing that. we are also producing and distributing millions of schoolbooks for six million primary and secondary students. this is very basic but necessary. at the same time we have rehabilitated almost 200 primary healthcare centres and 10 hospitals. we have given support to the completion of eight immunisation rounds, each involving 4.7 million children aged under five. we have completely rehabilitated the national drug quality control laboratory. i could go on and on. i think the commission has done a great deal, on behalf of the union, in difficult circumstances. now, we are aware that the key question will be how much we can do regarding capacity-building. you can rest assured that we will devote a good part of our resources to this, always depending, as i have said, on the security situation. according to our last assessment this is unfortunately not yet sustainable. i would like to say a few words about refugees. i have mentioned that we, the commission, have naturally been working to assist refugees. the entire package for last year was eur 50 million from various commission instruments. these funds are aimed not only at supporting the idps in iraq but also to help the governments of syria and jordan in their countries. we are of course in close contact with these countries. we have given eur 80 million to syria and eur 32 million to jordan because in this small country the large influx of refugees has created a big problem. finally, i would just like to say that i am as convinced as the council that the dialogue that the parliament will now have with the ad hoc delegation for iraq represents an excellent improvement and progress. we can only work together on that. let me assure you that we have been trying from the beginning to have a transparent flow of our money channelled through the united nations. in the future this will be channelled more and more directly.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i have the impression that ana maria gomes has given us not one, but two reports. one, written in concrete language, shows us the principles of our involvement in iraq. it contrasts very much with the heated and propagandistic language of justification. one thing that worked for sure in 2003. the authoritarian government that was the cause of the destabilization in the region was eliminated. without 2003, we would not be writing 25 pages of recommendations for a democratic iraq on institutional reform, electoral law, or ethnic minority rights. hopefully, we'll refer to the draft recommendation in the vote. that's why i'm happy to support this document. it's good that we see our responsibility for the success of a stable and democratic iraq. i am also pleased that the countries that shared the 2003 intervention will now be able to take advantage of the opportunities that the war has opened up.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the european code of conduct on arms exports.
the chairman of the council. − first of all, on behalf of the council, i would like to express my great satisfaction with the traditionally good relationship and cooperation between the council's coarm working group responsible for conventional arms export controls and the european parliament, more specifically with its sede subcommittee on security and defence. i am confident that this will go well and that excellent cooperation in this area will continue in the future. and that is why i welcome today's debate. allow me to say a few words about the eu code on the export of arms and military equipment. as is well known, the code was adopted in 1998 and at that time it gave the european union a new impetus in the field of the control of arms trade. in accordance with this code, the union has started to prepare annual reports, which are in fact reports on the transfers of arms that have been carried out. we will start this year with the preparation of the tenth annual report. it is also worth noting that these reports have become increasingly informative and transparent over the years. in recent years, the code has led most member states of the european union to publicly publish their annual national reports on arms and military equipment exports. in 2003, the european union also defined its own list of arms and military equipment covered by the code and began to coordinate export policies to individual third countries more seriously. member states shall also exchange information on refused and realised arms exports in accordance with the code. this dynamic has also been transferred to international organisations, especially those in which the member states of the european union play a major role, particularly the wassen arrangement. in 2006 and 2007, the code was further improved, in particular by further updating the user manual. as is well known, the code is not a legally binding document, but member states are politically bound to comply with its provisions. in the past, attempts have been made to build upon the code with a common position, which would be a legally binding document to be followed by member states in relation to arms exports, but there is no consensus on the adoption of such a common position. the slovenian presidency is striving to achieve this during our presidency, i.e. in the first half of this year, or at least to make a significant move in this direction. there is probably no better opportunity for such a move than the preparation of the 10th eu implementation report on the code, but at the moment we really cannot predict whether this will be our wish. this does not, of course, deter us from our determination to try, and we will therefore invite all the member states to communicate their views on this matter and try to encourage them to come together to reach a common position, and if there are no reservations, the slovenian presidency will of course be very happy to complete the adoption process and report back to all the institutions concerned, first and foremost to this parliament. let me say a few words, very briefly, on the other two priority issues: the common position on the mediation of arms and military equipment and the efforts of the member states to adopt an international binding treaty on arms trade. as regards arms brokering, the european union adopted guidelines as early as 2001, followed by a common position in 2003. by adopting this position, member states undertook to transpose its elements into their national legislation and thereby to regulate the field of brokering in the trade in arms and military equipment. at present, the vast majority of member states, 20 in particular, have already incorporated elements of this common position in their national legislation, and seven have yet to complete this process. the presidency will monitor progress in this area and encourage those countries which have not yet completed these procedures to do so as soon as possible. the last point: the international arms trade treaty. this is one of the key projects in the field of disarmament. as you know, the council of the european union recently adopted a decision in support of this international treaty. the general assembly last year also approved the indicative composition of the government expert group to work in this area. the information on the start of the work of this group is encouraging, but much work and effort will still need to be put into this process. we will follow closely the work of this group and support the process leading to an international treaty in the context of our activities.
member of the commission. − mr president, i took a little more time on iraq but i shall be a bit briefer now, so i will try to make good on my time. even if the responsibility for controlling and monitoring the sale of arms rests primarily with member states and thus with the council, the commission also has a clear interest through its contribution to the implementation of the eu small arms and light weapons strategy under the common foreign and security policy. we greatly value the effective control and monitoring of eu arms exports. we remain concerned that european controls should encourage other regions to adopt and apply – at the very least – minimum standards, in order to ensure that legitimate exports are not subsequently diverted, thereby exacerbating armed conflicts and human rights violations. in this connection, the commission continues to engage actively with member states, third countries, international organisations and others in order to deal with the financing of illicit arms trafficking, often linked with illicit trade in other commodities (particularly drugs), for example diamonds. we in the commission took advantage of our chairmanship of the kimberley process last year to push for the development of controls to prevent and deter the use of diamonds to fund arms purchases by rebel groups. further, in close collaboration with the relevant customs authorities, we intend to take forward measures under the new instrument for stability to combat illegal trafficking in arms by air, targeting particularly aircraft travelling to and within africa. we also play a role in the implementation of arms embargoes by prohibiting related technical assistance. within the european union, control of firearms trafficking is crucial in the fight against insecurity and criminality, especially against organised crime. the policy being developed to combat firearms trafficking involves the reinforcement of controls on the legal sale and holding of firearms within the union. this goes on to encompass the proper monitoring of the movement of firearms within the union and the development of cooperation between national administrations in charge. besides these efforts, we can see that a significant quantity of firearms is also in the possession of criminals and available on the black market. the unauthorised transfer of firearms across borders, and the transfer of unmarked firearms, are therefore important sources of these illegal weapons. steps are currently being taken at european level to enhance rules on record keeping and marking, to develop an export/import system for firearms for civilian use, and to improve cooperation between national law enforcement administrations. improving the traceability of firearms is a key objective, and externally – very briefly – we are also taking concrete steps outside the union to handle the problems arising from explosive remnants of war and small arms in crisis regions, again under the stability instruments. for instance, in bosnia we are currently considering supporting a project to deal with unexploded ordnance and other explosive remnants. certainly we will continue to support member states’ efforts to establish a treaty covering the arms trade, as our council president has said, although we might not be under the illusion that this will not take a certain time. but hopefully it will happen very soon.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, for nearly 10 years the european council has dragged its feet on transforming the eu code of conduct on arms transfer into a legally binding document. for the last two years there have been no technical barriers to adopting a common position on the code. why do we finally have to get our house in order? firstly, there are currently estimated to be some 400 companies in our member states producing arms. given that research and development costs in this industry are extremely high, companies naturally wish to maximise their profits by ensuring the longest possible production runs, selling licensing agreements and, in short, seeking markets wherever they can. companies from the 20 nations whose governments imposed strict guidelines on arms exports are clearly at an economic disadvantage vis-à-vis competitors whose governments show more leniency. all companies should have a level playing field. secondly, we have documented instances of companies from eu states supplying arms to china, colombia, ethiopia and eritrea. how can we on the one hand applaud all efforts to promote economic development, democracy and human rights while we make the very implementation of this impossible by contributing to violent conflicts? thirdly, we deploy military personnel from our member states on eu and nato peacekeeping missions but, by failing to apply this code of conduct, we risk that they may come under fire from weapons produced within our very states as a result of irresponsible transfer. fourthly, how can we envisage a future europe with a common foreign and security policy when we lack such a fundamental element in the form of a common position? finally, before we stand up in this chamber championing human rights and democracy, let us ensure that we also take action that gives substance to our rhetoric. the ppe-de group congratulates the authors of this motion for a resolution. we trust that the overwhelming support from parliament will help the council in finding a way out of the current political impasse and finally make adherence to the code of conduct a legal requirement for all member states.
the chairman of the council. − i note that there is a thread running through the speeches of the honourable members in this debate which is in favour of making the code legally binding as soon as possible. and let me say that the presidency shares this ambition, and i hope, mr pflüger, that this year we will have more luck and succeed in that intention or at least, as i said in my opening speech, make significant progress in that direction. i would like to thank you for the support you have given to the council reaching a common position, and you can be sure that the slovenian presidency will accordingly step up its efforts in this direction. i would also like to thank the honourable member, mrs gomes, for pointing out that the code is also being implemented with the aim of involving new actors beyond the borders of the european union. the previous presidencies, for example in 2007, already included in these activities mainly the countries of the western balkans, but activities are also under way with regard to other countries and their possible inclusion or participation in the code, countries such as turkey, ukraine and the countries of north africa and other countries in eastern europe. i hope that the next time the european parliament deals with this subject, we will no longer be talking about the code but about the common position. that's my hope.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in chad.
mr. chairman, please! the commission is also aware of the fact that the european union has been involved in a number of cases of serious human rights violations in the region. without an agreement between the governments in khartoum and n'djamena, the mission may prove futile and its effects may be quickly reversed. it is therefore important to encourage the authorities of both countries to engage in a broad mediation with the participation of international institutions to settle the burning issues. the european union mission is to improve the security of humanitarian missions in eastern chad. international policy experts warn that this could result in an increase in the number of refugees from darfur seeking safety from armed rebel groups. this may put us in a difficult position, if we recall the words of the prime minister of chad, who recently called on the international community to remove the refugees and threatened that if steps were not taken in this direction, the chadian authorities would remove the refugees from the country. these words will surely bring to mind scenes from the war in the balkans, where the parties dealt with national minorities and refugees in a similar way.
mr president, the very name darfur has become synonymous with human misery and suffering. the fall-out from the war in sudan has spilled over the border into chad, with nearly 300 000 refugees from sudan putting an enormous strain on chad’s economy and political stability. without a political solution to problems in this region, there will be no prospect of peace. at this time, however, we must also deal with the immediate situation, and with this aim in mind the eu is sending 3 700 military personnel to protect the refugees. poland is sending a 400-strong contingent, including engineers and medics. our military personnel face dangerous and harsh conditions and will witness harrowing scenes. they deserve our gratitude and respect for the task they are undertaking. they did not deserve the criticism from the extreme left and euro-sceptics in this chamber.
the chairman of the council. - let me try to answer some of the more salient questions raised in this debate. first, with regard to certain technical means, equipment or helicopters. this is not a problem specific to the european union, but the same problems are facing other countries, nato, the united nations and others. that's no excuse, of course. the european structures are working on this issue, i can assure you, mr morillon and mr van orden. the european defence agency is currently working on a long-term solution to the helicopter problem. however, as stated, there are ongoing negotiations with the russian federation for the supply of these helicopters. i have no information at this time as to the stage of these talks or whether they are concluded. but i know they're on the move. as regards the question of the deployment of this mission, a question raised by a number of honourable members, including mrs martens, i should like to repeat that there has been a one-day, 12-day suspension of the deployment of the mission, which has now ended. the deployment is continuing and as i pointed out in my introduction, we do not expect any consequences for the entire timeframe of the operation. even if this 12-day delay were to occur, the entire framework would not be affected. initial operational capacity for the operation is expected to be reached in the middle of this month. as for the first victim of the operation, a member of the french contingent, i should say that the investigation into this incident is still ongoing. the high representative, mr solana, and the operation commander, general nash, attended the funeral today on behalf of the council and expressed their condolences on behalf of the european union. let me end with these thoughts. the european union is aware of the seriousness of the crisis in chad and also of its regional dimensions, as i have said. it will therefore continue to encourage dialogue between the government and the opposition in chad itself, as well as between the chadian and sudanese governments. we see eufor as a vital contribution to these efforts and we also recognise the importance of being well equipped. but i would like to stress in particular, and i would like to comment here on what mr holm has said: the eufor mission in chad is part of the united nations mission in the central african republic and in chad, part of the minurcat mission. the impartiality and neutrality of this operation, namely the united nations mission and the eufor operation, are therefore among the fundamental principles of its functioning. these are the fundamental principles of neutrality and impartiality of the operation, the two fundamental principles that apply to eufor's operation in chad and the central african republic.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by joining the commission in paying tribute to the french soldier who lost his life during a dangerous mission in the service of peace, and we would therefore like to express our condolences to the family of this soldier who was the victim of a difficult mission. i didn't know mr. yorongar and mr. saleh's son were in the stands. i also want to greet them and tell them that i was not asked to do so and that i am of course prepared to meet them if they wish to inform me of matters that i do not have. i'm obviously prepared to receive them. many of you have spoken along the same lines as i did in my initial speech, namely that, more than ever, we strongly advocate an inclusive dialogue that would bring together all the parties, of course the government, the government majority, the representatives of the opposition, including - and i have made this clear to president déby - the representative of the armed rebels, but also - and i would like to have perhaps the support of everyone on this issue - the representatives of civil society, because - those are very absent and i do not feel in the other camps any very active willingness to involve them. i had the opportunity, at the meeting with the representatives of the monitoring committee chaired by mr lol, to tell them that it is also important to involve civil society. secondly, i am convinced that there will be no lasting solution without dialogue, but there will be no lasting solution in chad unless there is a solution or a restoration of relations between sudan and chad. it is clear that there are games of influence going on at this level and that is therefore one of the other parameters, it seems to me, of the solution. mrs aubert, i obviously share your concern and the need to put maximum pressure on president déby, and on everyone else, to ensure that human rights are respected. i have denounced very clearly, very forcefully, the arbitrary and extrajudicial arrests. the lifting of the state of emergency was also unequivocally requested. we have asked, as i have said, that the committee of inquiry be open to representatives of the international community as well, so as to guarantee objectivity and tangible results. i would like to make a small point, however, when you say that the european union should have a different policy from that of france, because otherwise i would not be intellectually honest. i have witnessed the extremely clear message that president sarkozy has conveyed to mr déby. i did not feel that there was some kind of alliance of interests between the french president, or the highest representative of france, and president déby. the tone, the content, the substance of the message were absolutely unambiguous. i must admit that i was quite favorably impressed by this speech. clearly, he denounced to mr déby, in my presence, these extrajudicial and arbitrary arrests; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of the region, and has also taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of the region. the eu is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think they're wrong to underestimate the importance of this mission or even to say that we have nothing to do there; i do not believe that this is a vital contribution by the european union to the protection, within the limits of impartiality, of the civilian population of eastern chad and to regional stability. the european commission has developed an action plan to support this stabilisation process, to support the voluntary return of displaced people to their villages of origin and to initiate a revival of development in the conflict-affected areas of eastern chad. the deployment of the eufor mission, as of 12 february 2008, currently stands at 600 men, including 380 on abéché, which should reach its initial capacity by mid-march and its full capacity of 3 700 men by june, which should guarantee the deployment of minurcat. the deployment of minurcat is crucial to ensure the safety and protection of civilians in the east of the country and to contribute to monitoring and to the promotion and defence of human rights, of course. he's a very important committed observer. the deployment of minurcat is all the more important as the commission has planned a follow-up programme in the field of the judicial and prison system in 2007 and the reform of the security system for 2008-2011. we would remind the chadian authorities that they must approve the terms of the minurcat operation as soon as possible, because any further delay could of course have consequences for the timetable for the deployment of the chadian humanitarian protection police, for which the commission is financing more than half the budget. a word about community support in eastern chad. since 2004, the commission has been supporting humanitarian needs in eastern chad and the humanitarian envelope for 2007 is €30 million. in addition, the european commission has allocated €10 million for the deployment of the police component of minurcat. it has mobilised more than eur 13 million through the 9th european development fund for the implementation of a programme of rehabilitation support in chad and the central african republic. it also committed itself to supporting, within its means, a process of reconciliation between the ethnic groups that clashed in 2006 and have no longer maintained relations since a wave of mass population displacement. however, the implementation of these programmes requires a lasting stabilisation of the subregion. so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it was important to make these clarifications. i want to make it clear that i am fully committed to following this matter day by day. i am willing to go there when i consider it necessary and useful to go there and i can do so in an emergency. i have scheduled to meet president beshir fairly soon and also to meet president deby again, particularly with regard to relations between sudan and chad, and i will, of course, continue to have all the necessary relations with the various political and civil society components to try to advance this inclusive political dialogue, without which there will be no lasting solution in this region.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased and happy to replace my fellow commissioner, ms viviane reding, in introducing such a very important and very good subject. the ageing of the population throughout europe obviously poses significant challenges to our society and economy. today, for every retired person there are still five people who pay taxes. by 2025 this will drop to three-to-one, and by 2050 to only two-to-one. the cost of care, especially care for the growing group of people over the age of 80, is rising rapidly. we are rightly concerned about ensuring a good quality of life as well as the financial sustainability of health and social care for the elderly. at the same time, i stress that an ageing population is also a great opportunity and a promising market for new products and new services for healthy ageing and independent living. we are all convinced that we can and should mobilise information and communication technologies for ageing well in europe. the ‘ambient assisted living’ joint programme will help to tackle these challenges and exploit the opportunities. it is also an innovative cooperation of member states in market-oriented research and development that merits european support. the compromise amendments that you suggested have certainly helped to strengthen the european dimension of the initiative by clarifying the scope as well as the roles and commitments of the member states. this will be helpful in ensuring the success of this important european endeavour for the benefit of us all.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - mr president! - what are you doing? the ageing of europe's population is a challenge for the whole european community. life expectancy is now 80 years and the number of people of retirement age is expected to increase by as much as 40% by 2030. the european union should take a comprehensive approach to this challenge, as demographic trends affect a number of policy areas, including employment, housing, education, social assistance and health care. the overall objective of this research and development programme is to enhance the quality of life of older people and to strengthen the industrial base in europe through the application of information and communication technologies that will help older people to improve their quality of life, maintain good health and be active in work and in the community. the experience and skills of older people are a great asset, especially in a knowledge-based society. it is also worth noting that in an ageing society, the proportion of women is higher than that of men, due to their longer life expectancy. therefore, it is necessary to target and evaluate the programme in terms of gender. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gill, on a very well-written report.
mr. chairman, please! the ageing of the population in europe is a fact and a fundamental social challenge. in our european action we should take account of demographic trends in the member states and analyse the social and economic implications. between 2010 and 2030, the number of people aged 65 to 80 will increase by 40%. the priority should be to ensure that these people live in dignity and have all the facilities possible and access to all the necessary services. the ageing population is putting pressure on the provision of affordable health and social care services and the availability of health and social care staff. in the context of this phenomenon, i would like to draw attention to the danger of marginalizing and isolating the elderly. the great danger of modern europe is the attempt to eliminate the sick and the elderly by legal euthanasia. i am appalled that the european union and its parliament, which are committed to protecting fundamental human rights, are silent on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! the proposal for the union to participate in a joint research and development programme on improving the quality of life of older people should be welcomed. new information and communication technologies can make life easier for older people, helping them to remain active at work and in their private lives. remember, the number of elderly people is increasing as a result of improved living conditions. however, when drawing up the detailed rules for the operation of this scheme, it should be borne in mind that the living and material situation of older persons differs from one member state to another. the difference in living standards is significant. hence the different demands on services and the different levels of preparedness for activity, and this is particularly true for people in rural areas. new technologies, new opportunities for working online, the use of new technologies can help to keep older people in the labour market, contribute to a comfortable ageing. with europe's ageing population, this problem is becoming more acute.
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much appreciate the support of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to the commission proposal and in particular the efforts of the rapporteur, mr schmidt, to find a compromise. as you know, the commission proposal was presented in march 2007. our objective was to raise and approximate the minimum levels of excise duty on diesel and unleaded petrol in order to maintain the real value of the minima, and to approximate the national rates in order to significantly reduce what is known as ‘fuel tourism’. the reduction of fuel tourism would not only ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for the hauliers, but would reduce the extra kilometres and consequently the extra greenhouse gas emissions, which are detrimental to the environment. i should stress that, during the council discussions, a large number of member states have underlined the positive effect of the commission proposal on the environment, particularly on climate change and global warming and the proper functioning of the internal market. as regards mr schmidt’s report, i appreciate very much the positive attitude to the commission proposal taken in the report and the efforts made by the rapporteur to find a compromise position acceptable to all. however, the commission cannot accept most of the amendments suggested in the report. let me elaborate on it. the commission is opposed to any suggestion that would undermine finding a long-term solution to the problem of fuel tourism – which is detrimental to the environment – and to the distortions of competition in the internal market. as regards the transitional periods suggested in our proposal, this approach is based on the principle of equal treatment of the old and new member states and is, therefore, well-balanced in our view. the commission, however, recognises that this is a political issue which will have to be discussed further in council. i would also like to explain that the proposal takes into account the competitiveness aspect of the eu through the suggested modest rate increases. they simply maintain the real value of the minimum levels of taxation by keeping up with expected inflation until 2017. the commission considers that its own proposal takes all relevant factors into account. it does not consider it appropriate to endorse a less ambitious plan or a more far-reaching one to increase minimum levels of taxation as suggested in amendments 18 and 25. as regards amendments 4 and 10 introducing a new definition of commercial diesel for motor vehicles not less than 3.5 t, i would like to clarify that the suggestion was not included in the original proposal. however, it is one of the main points of discussions in the council where the commission will follow the debate, bearing in mind the opinion expressed by the parliament. the commission can accept in principle amendments 7 and 27 supporting the objective of reducing co2 emissions. however, it should be remembered that according to the principle of subsidiarity, it is a matter for each member state to decide the way in which they wish to distribute their tax revenue. in conclusion, i sincerely hope that parliament can deliver a supportive opinion on the commission proposal sending a positive signal to the council to give a response to the concerns of member states having problems with fuel tourism and, at the same time, achieving environmental objectives.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's proposal to raise the minimum rates of excise duty on motor fuels aims to reduce excessive fuel consumption in transport and thus reduce environmental pollution. the commission also hopes that its proposal will reduce the differences in excise duty rates between member states, thus contributing to a level playing field in the single market. these goals are generally sound and deserve support. however, the commission proposal also contains solutions which may have negative consequences for the economies of the member states. these include: additional fuel price increases and rising inflation, rising costs and weakening competitiveness of european businesses, and declining household purchasing power. these effects can be particularly severe in the context of the very high oil prices on world markets that we are facing today. the commission proposal also suggests that the main burden of adjusting to the new rates will fall on the less developed member states of the union, which raises serious doubts. the amendments proposed in mr schmidt's report are therefore designed to reduce these negative effects, without undermining the main objectives of the commission's proposal. as part of the compromise reached between the main political groups, we propose three main changes to the commission's original draft. first, we propose to reduce the target minimum rate of excise duty on fuel from eur 380 per 1000 litres to eur 359 per 1000 litres. secondly, we propose to extend the period of application of the new rates for the new member states by two years, that is, until 2016. and thirdly, we propose to oblige member states currently applying the highest rates of excise duty on fuel not to raise them until 2015, in order to facilitate the process of convergence of rates. mr president, commissioner, i would like to stress that reaching a compromise was not an easy task. it required concessions and goodwill on the part of all the participants in the debate in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would like to thank mr schmid for having worked out this compromise and congratulate him on the good result. of course, this compromise cannot please everyone, but it does try to reconcile different goals and different viewpoints. it also represents a step forward in reducing the disparities in excise duty rates within the union. i call on the members to support this compromise and to accept mr schmidt's report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the president of the european union and the commissioners begin their speeches by declaring their support for economic freedom, free competition and small and medium-sized enterprises. but when we move from declarations to deeds, they take the form of reports similar to those we are debating. the report proposes to impose uniform fuel tax rates on all member states, to standardize prices, all under the pretext that it would be simpler, easier, fairer. in the background we have the thesis, accepted a priori, that the best solution for the countries of the european union is a single tax system, a single monetary system, a system of certification and marketing authorizations, a system of regulations and production limits, etc. the proposal assumes that there are no differences in the cost of obtaining fuels in the union, for example due to distance from sources of supply or labour costs. and none of this is true. so i ask, what is economic freedom, free competition in the european union? shouldn't we be talking about economic violence and coercion instead of economic freedom? is not a single fuel price eliminating all competition the ideal solution for multinational fuel companies to the detriment of consumers, small businesses? does the uniform price of fuel not favour the highly developed countries over the backward ones? finally, by adopting the report, and by standardizing fuel prices under the pretext of freeing the companies and the state, is the union not actually imposing new taxation chains on them, or worse still, is it at the same time taking their shoes off and driving them into poverty? we'll vote against it.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three things. first, the price of crude oil seems to have been consistently above $100 a barrel, causing fuel prices to rise steadily. it is only because of the weakness of the us dollar that fuel prices in europe are not rising sharply. and it's not always going to be that the united states wants its currency to be weak. in this situation, the proposal to increase the amount of excise duty in the coming years in the european union seems to be a complete disregard for economic realities. secondly, the new member states, because of their lower gdp per capita and consequently lower personal income than in the old member states, can only equalize the tax burden once personal income levels have been equalised. finally, thirdly, member states should have more freedom to reduce the tax burden on non-european fuels in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. such solutions would encourage the use of renewable fuels. this would reduce co2 emissions and meet environmental commitments.
mr. chairman, please! it seems that the single market, the free movement of goods and services, is full competition. but this is not entirely the case, because the cost of production, the competitiveness of goods, is significantly affected by the prices of the means of production, including fuel prices. it is true that even in neighbouring member states we now have different taxes on fuel, which gives rise to so-called fuel tourism in border areas. but the scale of this phenomenon is not very large. it seems right that the excise duty should be approximated, but the process of maturation should be slow, spread over many stages. the alignment of the minimum excise duty rates for diesel and unleaded petrol should also be spread over time. the general principle here is that we should try to keep taxes and excise duties on fuel at a lower level, so as not to increase production costs and inflation and increase household expenditure, especially in the new member states where wages are much lower.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to congratulate the commissioner and our rapporteur on a brilliant project, which i fully support. this is a very good sign from the european union in the first place, i am talking about the willingness to support developing countries and also to fight climate change. but i have a question for the commissioner: how does the commission intend to prevent deforestation, which in developing countries is often linked to the production of biomass and biofuels, and will the commission keep a proper distance from the production of biomass and first generation biofuels, because it is known that this is not the safest thing to do? i wanted to give my very strong support to mr. chatzimarkakis' speech. we must, as the european union, give that kind of signal. we are responsible for the upcoming climate change conferences in poznan and copenhagen, and it is up to us to negotiate the kyoto protocol and it is up to us to send signals to the world. this program is a perfect sign.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points. it is good that the author of the report recognises that the most serious consequences of climate change will be felt by the poorest countries, since they have limited capacity, particularly financial, to respond to them. secondly, the commission's proposal to launch a fund, albeit with a modest amount of eur 80 million, should be supported in this context, but as it is a lever for private sector financing of local projects, it can be a very effective fund. thirdly, and lastly, i would like to point out that the burden of climate change prevention is very unfairly distributed within the european union itself, e.g. the co2 emission limits have been allocated to individual member states without adequate consideration of their developmental backwardness. as a result, countries such as poland received lower limits, which almost immediately translated into an increase in electricity prices of several percent.
mr. chairman, please! the main objective of the fund is to stimulate private investment and support regional funds for the poorest, least developed countries in the world. the fund is intended to support energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of renewable energy, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the improvement of access to basic energy services. union action in this area should help poor regions to combat climate change and help diversify energy sources. let us remember that the effects of climate change will affect the world's poorest people first. it would be a mistake to limit our efforts to tackling climate change and reducing energy consumption to our own area. the assistance provided to poorer countries in this respect will help to initiate these activities in their territory and will have a significant impact and raise awareness of the seriousness of these problems. the right initiative at the right time.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to point out that, among renewable energy sources, we pay little attention to geothermal energy, or clean energy. the costs can be reduced by using existing geological surveying wells.
in writing. renewable energy and energy efficiency are measures to limit the rise in global average temperatures. studies and reports show that it is the poorest communities and their poorest citizens who will be most affected by the adverse effects of climate change. so we have a duty to protect this particular segment of society because of their diminished economic resilience. renewable energy sources make a significant contribution to, inter alia, raising environmental standards by reducing emissions of co2 and other greenhouse gases, increasing employment and reducing costs. the reduction of energy dependency is also a relevant argument, while the number of people without basic energy services will increase, which is particularly relevant in the process of shaping the economy of developing countries. these countries are largely experiencing a period of economic growth and, consequently, the energy demand in these areas is high. the development of renewable energy in developing countries is of great importance for efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and for security of supply in countries that meet only part of their own energy needs. the union should therefore promote renewable energy and energy efficiency, particularly in developing countries, as they are crucial elements of energy and climate change strategy and development policy.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw attention to two points in the report. the first is the conditions of solitary confinement. access to adequate personal hygiene and women-specific health services is particularly important here. as a political prisoner in communist poland, i was given a quarter of a cube of gray soap for six months. the regulation on bathing rights has been unenforceable for weeks. that's not good enough. access to running water, warm water for washing, access to a gynaecologist, and mammography should be provided, regardless of the amount and type of the penalty. the second issue is the impact of imprisonment of women mothers and pregnant women on the lives and health of their children. in particular, women are often denied the right to participate in parental rights proceedings. detainees shall not be allowed to attend trials. children's access to their imprisoned mothers is restricted. in some cases, mothers are taken from their babies shortly after birth, preventing them from being fed natural food. it should be remembered that in any solitary confinement for women, the child is also indirectly punished, the whole family is punished. so this type of punishment should only be used in exceptional circumstances. i congratulate the rapporteur.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs budreikaitė, on this excellent report, which presents a precise analysis of the challenge of development policy for the new member states. your report reminded me of the debates and concerns that have been stirring public opinion and the european political world on the eve of enlargement, with doubts and fears expressed on both sides that enlargement would dilute solidarity with the developing world and would make africa fall out of the european union's priority list. actually, it's not that. what was foretold and the predicted troubles have not proved to be justified. never has european development policy been more ambitious in its objectives, never has it been more unifying in its approach and never has africa been more high on the union's foreign policy agenda. your report confirms that this was possible, not despite, but thanks to the commitment and political will of the new member states to assume their responsibilities fully. let us first consider the question of funding. of course, the new member states still have a long way to go before they reach the targets set for 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since joining the european union, these countries have doubled or even tripled their aid. in 2007, the aid from these countries reached almost 800 million euros. in addition, these countries have committed to allocating 0.33% of their gdp to official development assistance by 2015. the second is the effectiveness of aid. last year, the european union adopted a code of conduct setting out a number of principles for a better division of labour within the european union. i am very pleased to see that the new member states are doing very well in implementing these principles. the twelve member states all apply the principle of concentrating aid on a limited number of countries, which is obviously a principle that has long been defended in terms of efficiency by best practice. many of these new member states share the implementation of their assistance with other member states through co-financing, thus reducing the burden on the partner country administrations. i am thinking of the support - but of course not limited to it - that slovakia is giving jointly with austria to infrastructure in kenya or to the water aid that the czech republic is giving jointly with luxembourg. these are very moving examples. another example is that the majority of the new member states support developing countries on the basis of their sectoral added value, which is derived from their experience of political and economic transition. i am thinking in particular of assistance in the areas of governance, capacity building of public administrations and economic reforms. these steps, as agreed in the code of conduct on the division of labour, are fundamental to me. in april i will present a first assessment of the implementation of the code, one year after its adoption, with analyses and proposals for increased support and coherence. on this basis, i want to have a serious debate with all the member states on how to proceed. with the accra conference on aid effectiveness only a few months away, the developing world is looking to europe to lead the way and rightly so, because europe - i think it should be said again - is by far the world's leading donor and has the potential and the duty to lead by example. your report highlights another fundamental point, that of raising public awareness in the new member states. it is true that in most of these countries there is not much tradition in development aid, particularly aid to africa. it is therefore also our responsibility to continue to convince public opinion and to show them that this is not just about charity, but also about mutual interest. i think about peace and security, migration, climate change, food security. with this in mind, the european commission launched the third capacity building programme for the new member states in mid-february. through this programme, the commission will provide the expertise needed to develop communication strategies to enable administrations to better report on their activities to the general public, to raise public awareness, especially among the media and students, of development policy issues. ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer the old europe or the new europe. there's no first class, no second class. there are no longer any old or new member states. there is only one europe, a europe of solidarity, openness and political union, which also carries universal values. the development policy evolution since the last enlargement is proof that the european union can expand and deepen at the same time. this is, in fact, an extraordinary lesson in history for the future of development policy and european integration.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in january last year, at a public hearing on new donors in the european union held in the european parliament, participants expressed the hope that the debate on the development policy of the new member states in the european union would find its continuation in the work of national parliaments and in the further activities of the european parliament. i therefore welcome with great satisfaction the first report in the history of this parliament, that of mrs budreikaite, which is an attempt to analyse the extent to which the new member states are currently involved in the european union's development policy and the challenges they face. it is difficult to summarise all the challenges facing europe's new donors in shaping national development policy and modernising development policy at community level. let me just point out a few of the things that i think are key. first, it is necessary to strengthen the role of national parliaments in shaping development aid in the new member states. without a solid legal basis developed by national parliaments, effective development policy and, therefore, effective coordination in the planning and management of aid to developing countries will not be possible. in some countries, legislation has been in the works since 2004 and has not yet been finalised. this results in, for example, no implementation agendas in these countries. there is a need for further awareness-raising and i agree with commissioner michel on the sensitivity of public opinion in the new member states to the importance of development policy. development education, broad public consultation, mass media and awareness-raising campaigns can play an important role in this transformation. without this, it will be difficult to obtain taxpayers' consent to increase financial expenditure from member states' budgets for development policy. the more awareness, the more acceptance of the financial effort. i also agree with the commissioner on european solidarity in development policy. we should coordinate the plane of cooperation and learn from each other. on the one hand, the commitment and knowledge of the history and the transition of the new member states can help the union as a whole to develop and strengthen the democracy of those countries undergoing transition. in turn, the lessons learned from the experience of the old member states, and in particular from aid to the world's poorest countries, can increase and target development aid to those who need it most, such as sub-saharan africa, which is not the main target of aid among the new member states. this mutual education and mutual assistance can increase the effectiveness of development policy throughout the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i too join in congratulating mrs budreikaitė on the preparation of this very good report. this document deals with the eastern dimension of the european union's relations and the need for a new assembly, such as eurolat or euromed, based on the historical experience of the new member states, especially those of my country, poland. and here i agree with the author of this report. europe needs a new vision of expanding its sphere of influence, through the balkans, the black sea region and the southern caucasus. the european union's policy towards these regions is outdated. the very name of the european neighbourhood policy is inappropriate and offensive to some countries, such as ukraine, which is undoubtedly a european country. this should be renamed the european union neighbourhood policy, as former ukrainian foreign minister borys tarasiuk rightly pointed out during the last meeting of the eu-ukraine cooperation delegation. the european union should give more support to ukraine and georgia, and bring them into its sphere of influence. these countries need our involvement even more than the countries of central europe before the enlargement in 2004. they need an individual approach from the european union, not a general neighbourhood policy that de facto treats ukraine on an equal footing with countries that are historically not part of europe. ukraine, georgia and belarus are poorer, economically weaker and politically more difficult than the countries that joined the union after 2004. in recent years, russia's position in the region has been significantly strengthened. russia's willingness to use energy resources for political blackmail discourages the union from opposing the kremlin's shameful and undemocratic practices. in georgia and ukraine, moscow is trying to reverse democratic transitions. the european union's neighbourhood policy, as we should in principle call it, should offer direct political and economic assistance to our closest neighbours. poland has some projects that are still waiting to be implemented, such as the project for the independent television station bielsat in belarus.
mr president, my country has been a recipient of aid for many years because of the poverty in poland. today, after four years in the union, it is increasingly involved in aid to developing countries. for example, we recently paid off a very large debt to angola. but we also support the elites in these countries by funding scholarships to study in poland. because we're starting from the assumption that investing in knowledge, creating elites, is just as important as charitable publishing. and i may be arguing with some of you that we should not see aid to developing countries as just supporting african countries. i would remind you that the so-called european consensus of three years ago does not oblige us to focus development cooperation on africa. support for the former soviet republics in asia is also important. as a pole, i am proud that my country, as a new member state, is spending the same percentage of its gdp on aid to developing countries as greece, which has been in the european union for 27 years, or portugal, which has been in the eu for 22 years, or italy, which is a founding member of the community.
mr. chairman, please! helping others when you need help yourself is a special kind of solidarity. it is also reflected in the actions of the 12 countries that have recently joined the union. you should appreciate that. and in the case of poland, i showed it through the exhibition polish aid to the world last november. so thank you very much, mrs budreikaitė, for the comprehensive presentation of this issue. the mdgs, which we have been talking about for years, are about helping people who live at the bottom of the poverty line, including millions of malnourished children. but this aid must be more fishing and learning to fish than giving them on a plate. we must also work towards a fairer trading system with third world countries. what is needed is the generosity of a donor who pays off the debt, and the wider sharing of the benefits of science, especially medicine. let's support schools and universities in these countries so that their graduates can work for their fellow citizens. let's help solve the problem of the lack of drinking water. as citizens of the union, we make up only 7.5% of the world's population. and we have 23% of the world's gdp. of course, we have our problems in europe, including economic ones. but let's see the scale. let us not be indifferent to those who suffer because they are hungry, sick, uneducated, poor, destitute, or in danger of death.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the document on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation addresses women's issues in african and asian countries. the strategy proposed action in several categories: gender equality, political order, employment, education, health and violence against women. it is well known that equality between women and men is an important element in the development of societies, which is enshrined in the basic regulations of respect for the dignity and rights of man and of all people in our european civilization, but equality and non-discrimination against women are not the only conditions for development. a number of other important actions for progress could be mentioned, starting with the observance of ethical and moral principles, which guarantee a significant reduction in the use, violence, fraud and other manipulations, including discrimination and harassment of women. the dramatic conditions of women in african countries are the result of a policy of plundering natural resources and the speculative activities of international corporations that enrich themselves at the expense of the lives and health of the inhabitants. budget support and other programs implemented by the european union will not compensate for the losses of the looting economy. ethical relativism also underlies sexual abuse and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. the promotion of sexual freedom leads to the deprivation of women's dignity as sexual objects and provokes violence. in order to improve the situation of women, we should not subsidize contraception and abortion, but support families, especially those with many children, by providing them with education and development, or by improving health care and social protection, especially for women who are expecting a child. of course, educated women with leadership skills and a willingness to engage in politics should be able to run for office and use their psychophysical differences to broaden the spectrum of views on issues that matter to more than just women and children. however, gender mainstreaming as a basic and guiding idea that has resulted in paternity leave for men among others is already having its expected effects, because it is not only swedish fathers who prefer to hunt elk and read newspapers instead of taking care of their children. the tyranny of mass media , the sexualization of aggression , is affecting ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! the report by ms uca addresses the important issue of gender equality in the context of development cooperation. unfortunately, the author's positive intentions have been undermined by the over-exposure of controversial issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights. actually, we shouldn't treat this as a controversial issue. it's more like a paradoxical language, which is quite common in the european union. it is precisely through the use of strange language that the union is alienated from its citizens and becomes a bureaucratic machine, incomprehensible and alienated. that's how we create and feed our enemies. i therefore hope that the ppe-de amendments will be adopted by the house. why would you do that? well, the intent of the authors and promoters of the term "reproductive health and rights" is the exact opposite of what is contained in those words. so reproductive rights are not about reproduction, they're about restricting reproduction. so we're looking for a positive name for something that actually has a negative effect, which is reproductive restriction. i think it's cheating people. let's not let those who advocate population control in poor countries, or the promotion of contraception or abortion, hide behind terms like reproductive health and rights. they should call things by their real names. i think they don't want to do that because they suspect that the european union really shouldn't be involved. because isn't it ambiguous for europeans to be involved in promoting and funding contraception and abortion outside europe? as in the eu, it is up to the individual countries in africa and asia to decide what policy they will pursue. this is about women making decisions. but we are the ones telling these women in africa what they should want. i think there's been a misunderstanding. another point: there is no causal relationship between polyandry and equality. there's no connection here, i don't see how it's connected.
mr. chairman, please! statistics show that gender equality policies are accelerating the achievement of the millennium development goals on poverty eradication and improving demographic, social and economic indicators. however, gender issues are still considered to be of secondary importance. women in many countries are still denied access to basic health services, education and participation in decision-making processes. two-thirds of the world's illiterate people are women. in developing countries, girls are 11 percent less likely to attend secondary school than boys. the statistics also show the tragic health situation in sub-saharan africa, for example: 60% of hiv-infected people are women, and 75% of all new aids infections among young people are girls. the commission's communication is an important step towards the european union's inclusion of gender issues in its cooperation programme with partner countries as a key instrument for poverty eradication, the promotion of human rights, including the fight against violence against women. i congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-written report and in conclusion ... (the president withdrew the speaker's speech).
in writing. equal opportunities and equal access for women and men to resources and to participation in public life are crucial not only outside the eu but also in the context of sustainable development. this is also a very important issue for many women in the european union. i will give an example: in poland, in my region of silesia, women who work every day to combat all forms of discrimination, including for the equal status of women and men, express concern that gender mainstreaming, or gender policy, is not properly integrated into regional activities in the fields of economics, politics, culture. women gathered in katowice on 8 march 2007 stated that 'gender politics is not represented by either local authorities or the media, whether public or private, despite the fact that poland joined the eu almost four years ago'. they added that the slogan 'democracy without women is half democracy' does not seem to convince the silesian authorities. after the last elections, there are one third fewer women in silesian politics. how can they be said to be equal? and that is why silesian women have called on local authorities to ensure their equal participation in power and decision-making, access to promotions and business activities, equal opportunities in employment, working conditions and pay, and freedom from violence.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of community participation in a research and development programme to improve the quality of life of older people through the use of new information and communication technologies. the project offers opportunities not only for older people, but also for people with disabilities, women raising children at home and people living in rural areas. i believe that this initiative will prevent the emergence of a digital divide in europe and will prevent the marginalisation of social groups that are at risk of having less access to modern technologies. but there is one aspect of this that i think is very important: the cost of these technologies should be kept as low as possible.
i voted for the report 'improving the quality of life of older people' because the issues it deals with are important to many europeans, and especially to the older generation. older people are dependent on pension benefits, the level of which is largely very low. this is a growing problem as more and more elderly people are benefiting from these funds, which are limited because the number of contributors is decreasing. so we're going to have a situation where a large group of elderly people are going to be applying for different benefits. but also a significant proportion of these people retain some work capacity and can remain active in the labour market. aging, the increase in the number of older people, means that there is an increase in demand for a range of services and other products, so there is an increase in demand in this area.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report. i do not support the idea of a directive which would bring about the unification of excise duty rates for diesel and petrol within the european union. the differentiation of excise duty rates creates opportunities for competition between transport companies from different eu countries, which undoubtedly benefits the consumer. the provisions relating to the increase of the excise duty rate throughout the european union for fuels are contested. high oil prices on domestic markets and the drive to unify excise rates across the eu27 will hamper economic growth in countries with low gdps. an increase in the price of fuel means an increase in the price of goods and services. the introduction of amendments to allow differentiated excise rates to be maintained for newly joined countries, including poland, led me to vote in favour of their adoption.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against because a substantial increase in excise duty on motor oil will increase the duty on products and services in those countries which are to be taxed below the proposed community minimum, but it is still high for the conditions of those countries. given that the average wage level in the member states which joined the union in 2004 and 2007 is relatively low, the proposed increase in excise duty should be considered too high. the increase will be felt especially by the poorest families, for whom the current increase in fuel prices is already a significant burden on their household budgets. for this reason, the least developed, low-income countries should be given much longer transition periods than the ones proposed by the european commission to give them time to adapt. we believe that the proposed increase is unreasonable and too high.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against it. the european union has no interest in funding iraq. there are other countries in europe that will benefit much more from this aid. the caritas "europe" report shows that in 14 european countries, including poland, austria, germany, and the united kingdom, the poverty of single parents, especially women, is particularly high. a report by the european union states that the highest percentage of children living in poverty in the european union is in poland - 26%. one in five poles (19%) live below the poverty line. 22% of polish children with at least one working parent are at risk of poverty. that's the highest rate in europe. 13% of poles at risk of poverty are working. in austria, 47 percent of unemployed single parents live in chronic poverty. let's focus on europe.
mr. chairman, please! i support some of the assumptions in mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou's report on the special situation of women in prison. the prison administration should ensure decent conditions for the punishment of deprivation of liberty and a precautionary measure in the form of temporary detention. i'm drawing attention to the situation of women employed in prisons. in poland, out of 30,000 prison officers, 5,000 are women. the staff member of this formation shall not be paid more than eur 500 per month. it is worth highlighting the role of prison officers in ensuring the proper execution of sentences and that, in the case of female prisoners, it is important that prison staff in such cases be predominantly of the same sex. this will reduce the discomfort of women convicts and ensure better protection of their rights. without significant wage increases and improved conditions in prison, we will not achieve the goals of the report.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mrs danutė budreikaitė on the challenges of community development cooperation policy for the new member states. i wanted to emphasize that the report was prepared at a very high level. it shall analyse in detail the current state of development cooperation in the new member states, including the relevant institutions, the thematic programmes and the countries concerned, and the financial contribution. the issues it addresses focus on relations between eu member states and their new eastern neighbours. the new member states are important links between the eu and its new neighbours. i personally call for an effective form of cooperation between old and new donors for the least developed countries and for the potential advantage of new member states in particular regions/countries to be exploited.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the neena gill report (a6-0027/2008) 'improving the quality of life of older people' as it aims to contribute to the use of modern information and communication technologies as a means of supporting older people. we know that our societies are now characterized by increasing human life spans. this is a very positive trend. the average age in the european union is now 80, and the proportion of people over 65 will soon rise to 40%. these technologies can significantly help these people in a variety of life situations, including extending their professional and social activities and improving their quality of life. of course, the different needs of disabled people also need to be recognised. it is also important to ensure the availability of these services and technologies, which are mainly based on broadband internet access in urban and rural areas, so that there is no territorial discrimination.
in writing. - the ucl report on gender equality in development policy is an expression of europe's moral imperialism towards developing countries. it's exporting the sick social model of rich european societies to countries in africa and asia. repeatedly invoked reproductive rights mean support for the widespread use of abortion. that's why i couldn't support the report.
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on armenia.
author. − mr president, recent events in armenia show how difficult it is for fledgling democracies in the former soviet union to trust the electoral process. those who hold power are tempted to stack the cards in their favour, especially in the run-up to elections, whilst those who lose find the results difficult to accept. the problems we have seen in post-election armenia have been compounded by violent clashes, resulting in eight fatalities, and by the imposition of an extraordinary measure in the form of a state of emergency. bans on all political activities and strict censorship of the media were imposed on 1 march 2008 for a 20-day period. the ban on political activities has subsequently been lifted. media freedom, including unrestricted internet access, is to follow. indeed, all normal constitutional freedoms should be restored next week. unfortunately, it cannot be ruled out that the state of emergency will be extended. for now, a lid has been put on the pressure-cooker. i am concerned about what is being done to release the source of the pressure. building democracy is a complex process. it must be safeguarded by institutions in which all parties place their trust. it is, therefore, regrettable that the outgoing president has attacked his country’s human rights ombudsman, who criticised government actions. it is only by strengthening the role of the ombudsman and also by ensuring impartiality of the constitutional court, which investigates allegations of electoral fraud, that democracy can be protected. until there is faith in armenia’s own guardians of democracy, i strongly urge all parties in the dispute to make use of the mediation offered by the eu and the osce envoys and to do so immediately.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is quite obvious that we would like to see peace in armenia, to have secure borders and to manage its internal affairs. i would remind you that the elections in armenia were not very controversial, and what is happening there today also requires a certain perspective of this inflamed region, the caucasus. but i would like, mr. chairman, if you will allow me, to express on this occasion, if i may, my deepest indignation at the news that has just reached me, that monsignor faradj rako, the chaldean archbishop of mosul, has been murdered. we recall that on february 29 of this year, he was kidnapped and three members of his security were shot. we are witnessing another attack, another crime, committed by those who do not have the courage to stand with their heads uncovered before the world, they kidnap innocent victims, usually people involved in religious affairs - mostly christians, mostly catholic christians - and here today we are witnessing such a crime again and i think that this should be the subject of a relevant item on our agenda at the next meeting in brussels. may god grant eternal rest to this brave, heroic martyr who died today in mosul.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the current political crisis in armenia is not the first in the country's history. in the past, when levon ter-petrosyan was president, the country started to move away from liberal and democratic standards. the main opposition parties were outlawed, the free press was restricted, and parliamentary elections were widely considered to be not up to all democratic standards. under the pressure of the demonstrations, mr. ter-petrosyan resigned as president, bringing a measure of stability to the country, only to be interrupted by such dramatic events as the murder of nine leading armenian politicians, including the prime minister, in parliament by unknown perpetrators. today we have a repeat of what happened about 10 years ago. however, the current crisis may be caused by a certain tiredness of the armenian society with the rule of the so-called karabakh clan, to which both the former and the current president belong. allegations of a return to authoritarian rule while maintaining a semblance of democracy, mafia methods of controlling business activity, and a worsening economic situation are common. there is also growing concern about armenia's increasing isolation and gradual weakening of its position in the unresolved nagorno-karabakh dispute. the announcement of mr. ter-petrosyan's decision to return to politics and run for office, and the announcement of more flexibility in foreign policy, was one of the factors that gained quite a lot of support. but the crisis is very deep. hopefully, it will be solved by political means, but it's not that certain. if this does not happen, it could cause the situation in nagorno-karabakh to escalate in order to focus society around the ruling team. the recent incident in karabakh, which killed dozens of people, confirms these fears. it may also result in further and increased dependence of armenia on russia, and the recent opening of the pipeline linking armenia to iran will not weaken this dependence, as the gas pipeline will be controlled by gazprom, of course. we must look closely at the situation in armenia, look sympathetically, but at times not shying away from criticism if necessary and from expressing concern. i think that this resolution expresses that kind of parliament's position.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the results of the presidential elections held on 19 february 2008 have become a cause of political destabilisation in armenia. it should be noted that the way in which they were carried out was recognised by the osce as meeting democratic standards. the demonstrations against the house arrest of levon ter-petrosyan and the brutal methods of suppression of the demonstrations on march 1 ended with the death of 8 people, many injured and the introduction of a state of emergency. restrictions on media freedom, and the increasing arrests of opposition figures are a cause for serious concern. we call on the armenian authorities to restore citizens' rights as a matter of urgency, to lift the state of emergency, to respect human rights and to identify those responsible for the tragedy of 1 march 2008. the investigation of this case should not be used as a pretext to persecute the opposition. the situation in armenia is indeed very difficult and our delegation should pay close attention to it.
mr. chairman, please! armenia is among a group of countries that receive support from the union to implement political and economic reforms, build institutions of the rule of law, and fight corruption and all types of crime. it is therefore right that we should be watching the political life of this country and its democratic principles. this is especially important when we consider the changes that armenia has undergone since the collapse of the soviet union. the authorities very often use their influence on the media, but when the authorities resort to violence, to the use of force, it must be extremely resisted, and when there are casualties, it becomes extremely difficult. we therefore strongly demand the restoration of freedom, respect for other views, respect for democracy and civil liberties. we oppose the use of force, violence, the disruption of democratic meetings, protests, demonstrations.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is paying particular attention to the situation of democracy and human rights in armenia, which, as you know, is one of our partners in the european neighbourhood policy. we are following very closely the course of events through our delegation in yerevan with the member states and in close cooperation with the european union's special representative, mr semneby. to this end, we also maintain regular contacts with local and international ngos active in the field of human rights and democracy. the commission is also concerned about the tragic events in yerevan following the elections on 1 march, and the violent clashes between police and opposition protesters which have left several people dead in the capital. in this context, the commission has urged that these events be thoroughly investigated and that those responsible for illegal acts be brought to justice. we have also called on the armenian government to lift the state of emergency immediately. the commission considers it important that all parties refrain from the use of force. we expect all parties in armenia to engage in political dialogue in order to overcome their differences. in this context, the commission also strongly deplores the shadow cast by current events on the otherwise increasingly positive record of armenia in implementing its enp action plan, particularly in the field of human rights and democracy. the call for further political reforms and respect for human rights is an integral part of the partnership between the european union and armenia, which is why the commission is using all the means at its disposal to encourage the armenian authorities to continue to make progress in these areas. by adopting the joint eu-armenia action plan in the framework of the enp in 2006, we have acquired a policy tool to promote respect for the principles based on our shared values in these areas. we are firmly convinced that a permanent dialogue with armenia, conducted in accordance with the political provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement and the enp action plan, is truly the most effective way of conveying the european union's messages on respect for human rights and international law. the annual meetings of the committee and the cooperation council, and of the parliamentary cooperation committee, are of particular importance in this respect. the commission also remains committed to contributing to the reform process by providing financial and technical assistance to armenia. support for political reforms in the field of human rights and democracy remains one of the priorities of the 2007-2010 national indicative programme. around one third of our bilateral aid, which for the period 2007-2010 will amount to €98.4 million, will be used to support projects in this sector. more specifically, the 2007 bilateral assistance programme with armenia focuses its financial support on judicial reform with budget support of €18 million. i am sure that the european parliament will support us in this endeavour and will be our strongest ally.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on five draft resolutions on the arrest of protesters after the presidential elections in russia.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. once again, elections were held in russia, and once again, the main contenders were eliminated before the elections. once again, the opposition, which had protested against the election results, was dispersed after the elections. and once again, the west is surprised, and it's surprised for three reasons. first, there is no respect for civil rights in russia. second, why persecute the opposition, why persecute the opponents, if they are weak. and third, why do it if the public basically supports every decision the government makes? and here we have to realize that no one will understand russia who treats russia and russians as a normal society and a normal state of western civilization. the russian mentality is completely different, as can be witnessed by those who have been russia's neighbours and are russia's neighbours for ever, as well as many nations of central and eastern europe and we know well that in russia you always support the government, the public always supports the government and always the power, whether there are elections or no elections, that's how russia was, is and will be. and of course i agree completely with mr posselt that the true friends of russia must do everything possible to change this situation. but i don't think that's surprising.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the agreements signed between the union and russia concern not only enhanced cooperation in the fields of economy, security and energy, but also respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental human rights. however, in the run-up to the elections, there was a marked tightening of the rules on the right to freedom of assembly and peaceful democracy for opposition groups and ngos. moreover, the major newspapers, radio and television stations were placed under strict government control. the march 3 march of opposition parties initially failed to gain approval from moscow authorities and ended with the arrest of participants, including opposition leaders. it is regrettable that the last elections did not show the strength of democracy and respect for the rule of law in russia. this applies not only to the disproportionate use of force by the police during the demonstration, but also to the hostile approach to the osce observer mission. the international community would expect the new russian president to not only announce that he will continue to build democracy in the world's largest country, but to take concrete action, such as reviewing the situation of political activists who have been imprisoned for years.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. both the election campaign and the presidential elections in russia were not conducted in accordance with the principles of democracy. when they applied, they didn't even try to keep up appearances. the media was under constant pressure not to publish critical information about the candidate supported by the incumbent president. the opposition's access to the media was blocked. it also made it difficult to monitor the elections. this is difficult to accept, especially given russia's participation in the council of europe and the authorities' previous declarations on respect for human rights. i admit that the only reason to believe in this declaration is to ignore russia. the violation of democratic principles during the elections triggered subsequent protests and violent demonstrations, which were followed by arrests. russia is definitely moving away from democratic standards. we call for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate is about human rights violations in russia against protesters against the lack of democracy, especially during the recent presidential elections. not only was force used against demonstrators, with arrests, but the organization for security and cooperation in europe had to cancel its mission because of the harsh restrictions imposed by the russian government. the russian authorities have put pressure on opposition groups, tolerated electoral fraud, and have subjugated the media. the activities of ngos were prevented and restrictions were applied to the organization of assemblies. of course, we do not agree with the lack of respect for human rights, democracy, lack of freedom of expression or discrimination against national minorities and limiting the independence of organizations. however, it should be noted that russia has no democratic traditions, and the short period of democratization of life in this power, which began in 1864, ended in 1917 with the establishment of soviet russia - a typical totalitarian state, which is the opposite of democracy, led first by lenin, stalin, and then by his faithful followers. the situation in russia is also a warning to other empires and totalitarian states that fear democratic procedures, even when the opposition is in the minority, it does not threaten to reveal the truth, which it wants to hide at all costs.
mr president, russia is a great country, a global player, a member of the un security council and a strategic partner of the european union. firstly, i would like to appeal for a serious, calm and objective debate in the european parliament on the plight of russian democracy and on human rights in that country. the reality is that russia made it difficult for international actors to monitor the last parliamentary election. the european court of human rights has ruled against russia in 15 cases related to chechnya to date. torture and illegal detention by government forces under the leadership of the chechen president ramzan kadyrov remain widespread and systematic. in the period leading up to the elections the russian authorities tightened their grip on freedom of assembly and used excessive force to break up peaceful demonstrations. the russian laws relating to non-governmental organisations are particularly restrictive. it is not possible to hold a proper debate on all these issues this afternoon. once again, i would like to appeal for a serious plenary debate on the plight of democracy and human rights in russia.
mr. chairman, please! it turns out that democratic changes in russia are unfortunately not accompanied by an improvement in the basic rights of citizens, especially the opposition. it's just that people have learned to think proudly, but live poorly and as slaves. the government, no matter what we say, doesn't listen to us very much. but i think we need to get our european position across to the people. maybe it's a slow process and our contribution is a slow and long realization that in russia too, things can be just different, more normal, and at the same time happier for people, because there is such a potential. we have to encourage that kind of awareness.
mr. chairman, please! besides the various abuses in this election, which made it not really an election, because there was no one to choose from, i would like to add one more element here. namely, several other candidates did not stand in the election, partly because of the financial difficulties their parties are facing. what's the matter, man? the point is that in previous elections to the duma, political statements that were given as free airtime are paid if the party does not exceed a certain threshold of electoral support. this makes some parties at the moment in debt and therefore unable to afford any political activity, and even more, they are in danger of being fully delegated on the basis of bankruptcy. this is a very curious thing, and i think it's worth mentioning.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to begin with a brief personal note. i heard mr dillen, a representative of a belgian far-right party, make a totally indecent comparison between the situation in belgium and russia. i can only denounce him. i recognize the classic methods which he and his party are accustomed to and which, in the end, are only intended to deal with insults. i want to make it very clear that these methods dishonor those who practice them. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is following very closely the developments surrounding the demonstrations in moscow and st petersburg on 3 march, through our delegation in moscow and also through direct contacts with the member states. we are also in regular contact with russian and international ngos active in the field of human rights. the commission shares your concern about the apparent deterioration of the human rights situation in russia and the number of reported cases of human rights violations, in particular with regard to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. we deeply regretted that the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights had to conclude that it was not feasible to send an election observation mission. the european union regularly stresses the importance of respect for human rights in its bilateral contacts, particularly at the highest level with russia. in a month's time, one of two annual consultations on human rights with russia will take place. these consultations are an opportunity for us to discuss in greater depth general trends in the field of human rights and to take russia's view on individual cases. we will express our concern, in particular, about the right to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, the problems associated with the increase in racism and xenophobia, cooperation with russia in international organisations such as the osce and the council of europe. these consultations also give us the opportunity to discuss individual cases. before and after these consultations, we will meet with a representative group of russian and international non-governmental organisations active in the field of human rights. these meetings enable the european union delegation to listen as closely as possible to the concerns of human rights defenders and to exchange views openly. in the longer term, we should soon be able to start negotiations on a new agreement between the european union and the russian federation. it will be a comprehensive agreement covering the growing number of policy areas in which we are working together. as stated in the european union's statement following the russian presidential elections, there is a mutual interest in advancing these relations and we hope that this partnership will be strengthened and developed constructively during the presidency of dmitri medvedev. during the negotiations, we will ensure that the values to which we have both subscribed are reflected in the new agreement: a thriving civil society and independent media are the natural and indispensable allies of growth and stability in russia. this is the experience we have had in the european union, and it is a message we will continue to pass on as neighbours and partners to our russian friends in their daily work and in discussions on the shape of our future relationship. i already know that the european parliament will strongly support us in this endeavour.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it always amazes me that people who have very high expectations of american democracy often have very low expectations of russia. it's humiliating for russia and russians. the strong and the big can and should be expected to do more, not less. those who condemn the practices of guantanamo bay, the fight against terrorism, those who seek to trace the cia and its european plots, should perhaps look a little closer at russia. and those people and politicians who share this philosophy usually don't want to hear about human and civil rights in russia. they are even looking for all sorts of excuses and excuses not to discuss the problems of russian democracy. we cannot rest on the imaginary merits of the russians. such as that president putin did not violate the russian constitution and voluntarily surrendered power. it's not a credit, it's a minimum standard. it reminds me of the anecdotes about stalin's supposed goodness. here comes out of stalin's office a bloodied but smiling child. someone asks them why they are smiling, and the child says that it is because they are touched by stalin's kindness. how is that kindness, after all stalin hit you? and the kid says, "well, he did, and he could have killed somebody".
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the case of the journalist pervez kambakhsh and the debate on the four motions for resolutions on the cases of the iranian national seyed mehdi kazemi.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. afghan journalist kambakhsk has been sentenced to death. as usual, authoritarian governments attack those who stand up for human rights, journalists and religious activists. i'm also leaning towards the votes that have fallen here. we can't be any more tolerant of those who are strong, like russia or china. mr mladenov rightly pointed out that these standards should be the same. i would also like to point out that those who say that we must be tolerant of china or russia because they are powerful countries are doubly wrong. first, that's why they're wrong about the standards having to be the same, and second, i wanted to point out that while governments sometimes have to make different compromises, that's a different situation. parliaments have always been the conscience of the people, in the history of europe, if you look at them. and parliamentarians cannot make the kind of compromises that we sometimes regret in government. i therefore call on this parliament not to set up double standards, one for the powerful and one for the weak.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 22 january 2008, a district court in the northern province of balkh, afghanistan sentenced to death a 23-year-old journalism student who wrote for a local newspaper, mr. pervez kambakhsh, for downloading and distributing an article on women's rights. the trial was conducted without a right of defense. the defendant was beaten, forced to testify by brutal treatment. we call on the afghan authorities to release pervez kambakhsh. we expect the afghan government to restore respect for human rights, in particular the right to life. i would like to express my hope that afghanistan will urgently introduce a moratorium on the death penalty.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's value is to coordinate actions, to express positions that serve the respect of human rights. this is also the case of an afghan journalist who was sentenced to death by a court in a northern afghan region. he was convicted for distributing an article on women's rights in islam. he was denied legal aid during the trial, and various forms of coercion were used. and the interesting thing is that the afghan constitution has a right to freedom of speech. we see that the law is mixed with reality. governments in many countries, on the one hand, enforce the universal declaration of human rights, but turn a blind eye to how they apply it in their own countries. this should motivate us to take even more decisive action in defence of human rights, freedom and democracy.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for giving us this opportunity to discuss with you the case of mr kambakhsh in afghanistan and the case of mr kazemi, an iranian national. we share all your concerns about mr kambakhsh and are following the matter closely on the ground through our delegation, in cooperation with the head of mission and the special representative of the european union. we have regularly raised this matter with the afghan authorities, most recently with the minister for foreign affairs, mr spanta, at the troika meeting in ljubljana on 21 february. i know that the afghan delegation in the european parliament has also raised this issue directly with the afghan parliament. on that occasion, the afghan parliamentarians wanted to give you the assurance that a satisfactory solution to this matter would be found. i think it is desirable to continue the course of action followed by using, at least for the time being, discreet diplomatic action. judging by the current political climate in afghanistan, it will be more difficult to secure the safe release of mr kambakhsh if the afghan authorities are given the impression that they are caving in to international pressure. i would like to assure you, however, that we will continue to follow this case very closely and that we stand ready to take further action in the event that the death sentence is upheld on appeal. the afghan judicial system has been completely destroyed by almost thirty years of armed conflict. we have therefore made the reform of afghan judicial institutions a priority in our programme of assistance to afghanistan. our experts are already on the ground and working with the supreme court, the attorney general's office and the ministry of justice to professionalise these institutions at the central and provincial levels. the ec programme will also help the authorities to set up a new legal aid system, which is badly needed in afghanistan, as this case shows. at present, there is no strong and independent bar association, nor is there access to public legal aid. i am hopeful that the ec's judicial reform programme, implemented in close synergy with the eupol police mission deployed in afghanistan under the esdp, will contribute to improving the human rights situation in the medium and long term. the commission also shares your deep concern about mr kazemi and other similar cases. mr kazemi's case is being carefully examined by the dutch and british authorities. as regards the protection of refugees, we would point out that, under international law, in particular the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees, no contracting state shall expel or in any way return a refugee to the borders of territories where his life or freedom would be threatened on account of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinions. under iran's penal code, the act known as lavat is punishable by death. the term lavat, however, does not distinguish between consensual and forced sexual relations. in the latter case, it appears that when sentencing lavat for acts in conjunction with other charges, the term usually refers to rape. the commission is of course categorically opposed to the death penalty in all cases, and even more so if there is no crime. the situation of homosexuals in iran is a cause for concern. violations of the right to privacy and discrimination based on sexual orientation are in direct contravention of iran's obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights, which it has ratified. the european union is conveying these human rights messages to iran in a comprehensive manner and by acting on several fronts. unfortunately, iran has not yet accepted our offer to resume bilateral human rights dialogue. in any event, we stress to our iranian partners that we expect progress on all the subjects of interest to the european union in the political, nuclear, commercial and human rights fields. unless there is a general improvement in the human rights situation in iran, our relations with that country will not be able to develop satisfactorily. i would like to personally thank and congratulate mr bowis on his speech, and i fully share his sentiments.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
the author, on behalf of the uen group. - i wanted to ask for a stylistic correction. namely, after the words 'european court' to add 'european court of human rights', that is, the european court of human rights, otherwise this amendment would not be understandable.
i now consider the vote closed.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have, of course, limited influence on the situation in lebanon. but it seems we haven't done everything we can to make it harder for hezbollah to destabilize lebanon. this organisation is responsible for terrorist attacks in lebanon, including attacks in january 2008 targeting areas under unifil jurisdiction. hezbollah is a private army, backed by iran and syria, that is destroying this once-thriving country. that is why hezbollah should be urgently added to the european list of terrorist organisations. only then can we effectively block his activities in the muslim community in europe. it is the only way to block the european part of the money that flows to this organization. it is also worth mentioning the scandalous energy deal between switzerland and iran. swiss politicians should have no doubt that this money will also benefit terrorists operating in lebanon.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to echo the views that say that europe should take the initiative now, and what president patrie proposed, that we should offer the opportunity for the main lebanese forces to say in our parliament what is really blocking the possibility of convening parliament and starting the process of electing a president. we also need - i think - a strong policy on syria. damascus is the key to all lebanese politics. we cannot separate our policy on syria from our position on lebanon. so if we are talking about negotiations between israel and syria to leave the golan heights for israel, i think there is one condition that must be met, that lebanon has the right to be a democratic country and syria must accept it.
on behalf of the uen group. i naturally join in congratulating the rapporteur. it's a very good report. it is very fortunate that croatia and macedonia can gain eu membership before the 2009 european elections. on this last line, we should of course avoid adding political conditions to accession, especially in those areas which like property or compensation claims belong to the sphere of bilateral relations. the enlargement process cannot be held hostage to such tensions. there's also a broader context to this process. the enlargement of the union to the western balkans is europe's contribution to the stabilisation of the region - a region which we failed to achieve in the 1990s. for this process to be completed, we must send a positive signal to belgrade as well. by recognising kosovo, we have put the pro-european part of serbian public opinion in a very difficult position. we have little time today to even partially compensate for that impression. a road map for a visa agreement with serbia is urgently needed. we should sign the stabilisation and association agreement as a matter of urgency. it is now a hostage to the internal politics of two member states, but the whole union may have to pay the price for its suspension.
mr. chairman, please! in constructively assessing croatia's progress, the european union should not only set conditions but also provide all possible assistance, taking into account the experience of other european countries, the specific nature of the region and the fresh image of the war in the minds of the croatian public. the integration of the balkan peninsula without croatia is not possible. it should also be noted that the last two years of cooperation have produced unexpectedly good results, which undoubtedly bode well for the process of integration with the european union. of course, there are areas where more drastic action is needed. however, i believe that the efforts of this country should be appreciated and that the whole union should support these efforts. in the last two years, croatia has made commendable progress in most areas covered by community law. i therefore express my belief and hope that, with mutual commitment and adequate support from the other member states, the negotiations will be concluded in time for the finalisation of the accession treaty to take place before the european parliament elections in june 2009.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate hannes swoboda and erik meijer on their 2007 progress reports on croatia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia respectively. both reports are excellent. as a socialist group shadow for the report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i would like to thank mr meijer for his serious and honest cooperation during the making of this report. the report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia hails the achievements in the implementation of the ohrid framework agreement, which deals with the political aspect of inter-ethnic relations. the report comments on economic performance, the adoption of several crucial laws on prosecutors, and progress in the fight against corruption. on the negative side, we regret the signing of the bilateral immunity agreement by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia with the united states, which grants exemption from the jurisdiction of the international criminal court in contradiction of eu standards and policies. the report calls on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and greece to increase efforts to overcome the dispute on the name of the country. that should in no circumstances become an obstacle to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia’s membership of international organisations. on the name issue, the report does not criticise either of the two sides. it only encourages both sides to carry on negotiations, despite what happened at the nato summit in bucharest last week. fortunately javier solana said yesterday in the european parliament foreign affairs committee that negotiations on the name will continue. if the two sides agree, nato can take a decision to invite the former yugoslav republic of macedonia immediately, even at ambassador level, so a new summit will be needed. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia could get a date for the start of accession negotiations this year. the european parliament should give a clear lead for the country towards european integration.
mr president, croatia, this old european nation with a long history and an interesting culture, should join the european family of nations called the european union as soon as possible. croatia, a candidate country for eu membership, has a paradoxically longer history than some of the founding members of the european communities, such as belgium and luxembourg. zagreb and split are very european cities, and dubrovnik is the jewel in europe's cultural crown. during this debate, most of the speakers, including myself, are wearing ties. it is worth recalling that the tie is the invention of croats, and it is worth emphasizing here in the european parliament, which values freedom and liberty, that the croatian port of dubrovnik was the first in europe to ban the slave trade at the beginning of the 15th century. in this situation we do not even have the moral right to delay croatia's accession to the union.
madam president! i asked for a vote on croatia and macedonia to underline the complexity of the situation in the balkans and the need for a calm and balanced policy. the tragedy of serbia and kosovo is a warning against hasty decisions and solutions. a similar tragedy may have occurred in macedonia, where there is a large albanian population. this danger has been averted by the wisdom of the leaders of the parties concerned. such positive experiences should be used and supported, and it should be avoided to force others to do things without their will, without their consent, without giving them a reason for doing so.
in writing. croatia has successfully undertaken efforts to overcome existing divisions and achieve reconciliation between nations, which is one of the objectives of membership of the european union. croatia's accession to the european union would have huge regional implications and help to test the scope of the eu's commitments to the western balkans. the high level of involvement of croatia in the accession negotiations is positive, as evidenced by the large number of negotiating chapters opened. it is also worth noting that croatia has made good progress in most areas covered by community law. however, there is a continuing need for a strong commitment to address sectoral challenges and reforms. in order to facilitate integration, a list of measures necessary to facilitate integration should be drawn up. it is particularly important to speed up the process of empowering the administration to introduce new legislation. the process of public sector reform at local and regional government level also needs to be accelerated. the judicial dimension is also one of the sectors requiring deep reforms. the continuous efforts of the croatian authorities to bring war crimes to justice in their national courts in an objective manner are a great achievement. the economic growth in croatia and the reforms in the environmental sector are further achievements of the croatian government in support of the accession process. the 2007 progress report gives confidence that croatia is moving towards the accession process with commitment, while achieving its objectives.
in writing. according to eurostat data, croatian gdp per capita stands at 53 per cent of the eu average. croatia's gdp growth is at 6 percent. clearly its gdp per capita is higher than romania and bulgaria and in all honesty, it is a shame that croatia was not given the opportunity to join the european union with romania and bulgaria. over the centuries, croatia has contributed many things to the cultural landscape of our continent. let's make sure that we don't hinder its development and ensure that it doesn't have to wait longer than 2009 to become a member state.
madam president! the germans in bucharest opposed the official invitation of ukraine and georgia to nato. they cited concerns and fears about deteriorating relations with russia as justification. but germany knows that russia's fears are completely unfounded, because nato is a defense pact and has done a good job of keeping peace in europe and many other regions of the world. the question arises: what, whom and against whom does germany want to defend and represent in the unified europe of the 21st century, if not against the countries of central and eastern europe, including ukraine and georgia, which experienced soviet occupation? in a united europe, does germany want to resurrect the ghosts and demons of 20th century politics, i.e. the alliances and pacts that led to wars, crimes, the holocaust, the division of europe? is germany's attitude in bucharest not a warning sign that a common european foreign policy can be pursued under the dictates of germany, which is looking after its own interests and has forgotten the bitter truth of history?
madam president, the council of europe was set up to protect human rights, including the right to life of every human being, to promote common fundamental values and to strengthen the security of european citizens, which is a denial of the right to kill. meanwhile, at the plenary session on 16 april 2008, the parliamentary assembly is to deal with a report entitled 'access to safe, legal abortion in europe', which recommends guaranteeing women's access to abortion, removing obstacles to its performance, making available low-cost contraceptives, including those for premature birth, which are not only medically harmful but highly unethical. i would like to object to the report which, in contradiction to the objectives for which the council of europe was set up, promotes the murder of the most vulnerable and contraception.
the erasmus mundus programme, which aims to promote intercultural understanding and promote the european union because of its high educational achievements, is not available to belarusian youth. belarus is a country that does not respect human rights, repression for political beliefs, discrimination against national minorities, discrimination against trade unionists, persecution for civil attitudes. in particular, young people are punished for their beliefs by being denied the opportunity to study. we should find a way to make the benefits of erasmus mundus available to young people in belarus who are discriminated against in their own country for access to knowledge because of their beliefs. the university of warsaw and other polish universities accepted those who had been expelled from belarusian universities for participating in the demonstrations. i hope that the european union will find the right formula to solve this problem.
mr. chairman, please! the recent enlargement of the schengen area has had the positive effect of abolishing checks at the internal borders of the union. poland has, of course, abolished all checkpoints and as a result, we have closed 55 border crossings in my province alone. however, their closure places the local authorities in the position of having to develop the infrastructure left behind. it is made up of various buildings, skyscrapers, hangars, warehouses, car parks and associated land, ideally located, often along important international transport routes. the municipalities on which the land is located are interested in developing it, but do not have the means to do so. it is therefore highly likely that all these facilities will be used for commercial purposes. i therefore call on the european commission to launch a special fund to help border municipalities develop this infrastructure for public purposes, including cross-border cultural cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to pay tribute to the brave mountain men of tibet who fought for national independence. what i'm saying is not an anti-chinese demonstration. no, it's the opposite. i respect the chinese people who also fought for national freedom against the japanese occupiers or for freedom, civil liberties in china itself the example of the boxer rebellion in the 19th century. all the more reason, then, to remember this tradition, the chinese should not deny the right of self-determination to the tibetan people. we must show our solidarity with tibet, not just in words but in deeds. european politicians should not lend credibility to their presence at the beijing games. we should avoid beijing by then. i say this as a passionate fan and observer of the athens olympics. it's the least we can do.
mr. chairman, please! the process of ratification of the treaty reforming the european union is under way. after the parliaments of france, romania, slovenia, hungary, etc., the polish parliament also adopted ratification resolutions. perhaps there would be nothing special about this if it were not for the fact that parliamentarians adopted the treaty in great haste and often did not have time to read it. in this situation, the many initiatives to ratify the treaty by means of a national referendum are fully justified. after all, in a democracy, the sovereign is the people, not the mp, and the most important form of expression is a referendum, not a vote that compromises mps and parliaments. ratification without reading the treaty is a right of nations not to recognize. these facts are already laying the foundations for future political and national conflicts, all of which were to be conducted in accordance with human rights and the will of free nations and peoples for the common good.
mr. chairman, please! i should like to raise the issue of respect for property rights, the rights of peoples and the rights of religious minorities in ukraine, which has declared its intention to join the european community. in 1962, the soviet authorities closed the st. magdalene catholic church in lviv and turned it into an organ hall, destroying many valuable monuments along the way. since 1991, the lviv residents have been fighting for the return of the church under the invocation of st. magdalene, which has so far been unsuccessful. with the aim of reconciling the polish and ukrainian peoples, i would like to appeal to the authorities of lviv from the european parliament to return the church to the church authorities in order to deepen the friendship between our peoples, the polish and the ukrainian, and to make this church a symbol of reconciliation, which is so important for the forthcoming euro 2012 championships.
the fourth anniversary of the biggest enlargement of the union - the enlargement of the union with 10 new member states - is approaching. most of them are countries that need a lot of investment, a lot of support to modernize and transform their economies. bulgaria and romania have since acceded. these enlargements were very cheap for the eu budget. the benefits of enlargement have reached both the old and the new member states. we are in the midst of ratifying the lisbon treaty. this is a great success, but at the same time, when discussing the future of the union, the budget for 2014-2020 is being reduced. how do we want to meet these new challenges, the new challenges of an enlarged europe, if we want to spend less on things that are so important for europe, for the world, for the european union?
madam president! it is good that the slovenian presidency has made cancer a priority. but this can't be a one-time thing. the fight against cancer should be a priority for any future presidency, not least because the number of cases of this terrible disease in europe is increasing and will continue to increase as our population ages. i would like to draw attention to the disparities in cancer detection and treatment that the commissioner has highlighted, which are so evident between the old and the new union. statistics show a higher survival rate and lower mortality in the old union and i therefore call on the european commission to monitor the implementation of the eu's europe against cancer programme in central and eastern europe in particular. the citizens of the new member states should have the same conditions as the citizens of the old union in terms of preventing and, if they are already affected, fighting the disease.
madam president! the slovenian presidency should be thanked for making the fight against cancer one of its priorities for 2008. unfortunately, cancer kills millions of people in the european union each year. the numbers are frightening. in our lifetime, about 33% of europeans will be diagnosed with cancer and 25% will die from it. the highest death rates from lung, prostate and breast cancer are in the new member states, the poorer countries. action at union level is necessary to address disparities in oncology services, in particular in the area of control and screening. and remember, early detection of cancer is a better chance of cure. it is estimated that one third of cases could be prevented by, among other things, a healthy lifestyle, avoiding tobacco or alcohol abuse, and exercising and dieting.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in its mid-term review, the commission concluded that the european union is on track overall in adopting the measures for the 6th environment action programme. if this trend continues - and now are the crucial years - then it will be possible to implement the proposals contained in the programme by 2012. the preparation of proposals, and even their adoption and approval, is only half the effort required. without effective implementation - as was stressed tonight - of environmental policy, we will certainly not achieve the environmental objectives set out in the sixth environment action programme, however well the legislation has been prepared by the european institutions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this will enable the commission to help the national authorities to develop the capacities needed to achieve the results we are aiming for. the commission also shares the view of parliament that it is vital to integrate environmental issues into other policies. as the report stressed, this integration is essential for trade policies, as the european union has very important economic links with the rest of the world, and trade has a clear environmental impact. but it is also vital to integrate this into agricultural policy, regional policy and transport policy, where, with substantial funding, community policies will have a major impact on europe's regions. the impact assessment procedure, which the commission has also introduced, is designed to improve the coherence of community policies and includes taking account of the environmental aspects of our proposals. the commission would welcome the support of the european parliament to ensure that environmental aspects are fully taken into account in the consideration of proposals by the other institutions. finally, the report highlights the vital role of national, regional and local authorities, as well as citizens, consumers and businesses, in achieving the environmental objectives set out in the european union's 6th environment action programme. i can assure you that the commission will do everything possible to increase awareness and to secure the support of the parties concerned. i am sure that parliament will help in these efforts and i hope that the protection of the european environment will be one of the main issues of concern to voters in next year's elections.
in writing. as a member of the envi committee, i believe that it is a good thing that the sixth environmental action programme is being adopted in accordance with article 251 of the ec treaty, i.e. under the co-decision procedure. the protection of the environment is of paramount importance to the ep, which represents almost 500 million europeans. the involvement of the ep in the codecision procedure clearly demonstrates this role. the 10 years of operation of the sixth community programme require periodic evaluations, in particular with regard to the implementation of the priorities set out therein. the thematic strategies provided for in the programme have increased stakeholder involvement and developed the environmental policy dimension, but have also delayed or lengthened the legislative process in this area. the unfinished air quality directive is a particularly bad example. the parliament rightly noted that the greatest progress was made in those parts of the programme where no separate thematic strategy projects were presented (e.g. climate change). but on the other hand, it is important to remember that the sixth action programme encourages the promotion of sustainable production methods and consumption patterns through taxation. and while the mid-term review is hardly highly satisfactory, it is only through such a mechanism that the union can effectively pursue its objectives. failure to do so would damage the eu's credibility and those of its members who are genuinely concerned about the deteriorating state of the environment.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr rübig has, as usual, presented an excellent report. i'm glad you did. this is a very important issue, as smes can improve the implementation of research results into industrial and business practice relatively quickly. this is a fundamental aspect of the lisbon strategy. it is therefore good that the eurostars programme complements the 7th framework programme with regard to transnational projects and finances science and technology projects carried out by smes in cooperation with universities, research units and other large companies. the direction of research is also important, and it should be pro-market and have practical applications as soon as possible. this good idea, which promotes economic initiative, should be unbureaucratic and legible, also in financial terms. this is important for all partners, especially entrepreneurs. the success of this program will set a good example for the future. i hope our 100 million euros are not wasted.
mr. chairman, please! investing in small businesses is simply paying off. and the research shows that there's a place for good innovation in small businesses with simple technologies, and i want to emphasize that very strongly. and then there are family businesses, where you invest in one child per line, so there's a continuity, and i think that's very reasonable. moreover, these companies are very flexible, they can move not only from one place to another but also from one product to another at low cost, and i believe, mr president and colleagues, that if more than 60% of the income in the union comes from small and mediumsized enterprises, it would be a big mistake for us to save money on investing in their innovation and development.
member of the commission. − mr president, first and foremost, i wish to express my gratitude to the european parliament, and particularly to the rapporteur, mr gierek, for the interest and support shown regarding the research fund for coal and steel. let me also thank the chairwoman of the committee on industry, research and energy, ms niebler, and the shadow rapporteurs, ms laperrouze and mr březina, for their constructive help. i understand that the request for a debate was made by a number of members of the itre committee. i am therefore more than happy to summarise what is at stake. in 2002, a protocol annexed to the treaty of nice created the research fund for coal and steel, a smart financial design using the interest accrued from the assets made available at the expiry of the european coal and steel treaty. activities under that treaty were funded through a levy paid by the coal and steel industries, 27.2% and 72.8% of the budget being respectively allocated to coal and steel. through a bottom-up approach, this research fund is intended exclusively to fund research projects in the sectors related to the coal and steel industries, two major traditional sectors where research is still needed: firstly, to comply with current eu policies on environmental standards to combat global climate change and, secondly, to maintain energy security of supply by having a fuel mix that meets european demand. the essential principles and proper decision-making procedures related to the management of this fund are defined in the multiannual technical guidelines for the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. these technical guidelines are to be reviewed or supplemented every five years, the first period ending on 31 december 2007. on 10 july 2007, the commission adopted a proposal for a council decision on the revision of these technical guidelines. this proposed revision looked to further the positive results achieved during the first five years of the research fund for coal and steel research programme, notably in terms of environmental protection. in the commission’s view, no major overhaul was needed, but rather a fine tuning of the existing rules in order to adapt the guidelines to eu enlargement, to the seventh framework programme and to current european regulations, notably in terms of gender balance and financial management policies. this proposal for a council decision was sent to the european parliament for consultation, and this is the reason why we are here today. i would like to express my appreciation of the fact that mr gierek’s report by and large supports the commission’s proposal.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? the commission's decision on the continued operation of the research fund for coal and steel is welcomed. this fund was set up as a bank contribution of 72,8% for the steel industry and of 27,2% for the coal industry after the expiry of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community. the interest on this fund amounts to some eur 60 million per year, which allows for additional funding for research not covered by the 7th framework programme. this is the research necessary to rationalise both the operation of the iron and coal industry and the research leading to further improvement in the quality of the final products in this sector, namely steel and coal. the need for such research activities is very much relevant to these industries in the new countries of the european union. steel. steel is still the most important structural material today. the technological possibilities for improving the quality of various steel grades and increasing the efficiency of steel production are still far from exhausted, especially in the area of new technologies for the production of intermediate products for further processing. the increase in the reliability of steel structures and the operational efficiency of various machines and equipment requires numerous empirical studies in this field. this is both to further improve the chemical composition and the performance of the various steel grades. efficient and environmentally friendly recovery of scrap, such as steel from the troublesome galvanised automotive scrap, is also of great importance. coal, coal is energy security. the competitiveness of this solid fuel, the definition of which is proposed in this regulation to be extended to include, for practical reasons, bituminous shale also known as oil shale, extracted in estonia, depends on the efficient use of its regional resources. specific mining problems are highly dependent on local geological conditions and require routine exploration. they should precede the construction and operation of e.g. deep-sea methane-coal mines. coal mining also includes unconventional underground gasification technologies. the continued proper functioning of the research fund for coal and steel requires that each advisory group be composed of experts who guarantee an optimal representation of the european union coal and steel industry in terms of location, with particular regard to experts from the new countries of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i appreciate the comments which support the proposal as much as i appreciate also the comments which called for a view of how we will approach energy and climate change solutions in the future. i must make it clear that today we are talking about additional funding for r&d based on an existing fund, based on a protocol – to be more precise, we talk about the technical guidelines. i believe that it is better that this money is used for research and development rather than for anything else, because it is true that in energy and climate change there is no room for complacency. ccs is one of the activities which will also be addressed, but it is far from being the real answer. so the real questions, and the real debate about the issues which you opened today, will come when we discuss the strategy for the energy technology plan – how to approach this, how to act in the future, and how to find the right answers. in this respect, it will be extremely important that we are aware that ‘business as usual’ is not an option. we lack human resources and we lack funding. the framework programme is only partially a solution for that. we will have to address that issue seriously because we need to look at it both from a short-term point of view, looking for possible solutions to fill the gap where the need is urgent, and at the same time for long-term solutions. such solutions are very much needed and we must concentrate on renewables from today onwards. so i think that will be when we have to discuss that. do not forget that the financing of energy in 1980 was approximately four times higher in europe than it is today. so approaching these problems as though business as usual could continue would be another illusion. do not make that mistake.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i can only take one view of the matter raised here, namely that the mines should be closed as soon as possible for ecological reasons. i think that energy security in my country, for example, in the czech republic and in many other countries of the union contradicts this view and this view is not generally accepted. on the contrary, given the emerging new technologies, such as clean coal and ccs, we will probably build new mines in the future. coal will remain an important and competitive source of energy in europe for a long time to come. we must also not forget - and here i am addressing those who would like to close all the mines - that coal is not only an important energy resource but also a chemical resource. so, first of all, the research fund for coal and steel is needed. secondly, the fund does not overlap with the seventh framework programme, i.e. it is a completely different area of action. thirdly, an increase in eligible costs from 40% to 50% is appropriate. fourthly, the exclusion of bituminous shale from the programme of the research fund for coal and steel, as proposed by the greens in this amendment, would be detrimental to estonia, whose energy sector is based mainly on this fuel.
in writing. in poland, 95% of electricity comes from coal-fired power plants. poland is therefore particularly interested in new coal technologies that will increase the efficiency of power plants, reduce co2 emissions and enable the conversion of coal into hydrocarbon fuels with reduced co2 emissions. new technologies open up the possibility of using nuclear reactors as emission-free heat sources to achieve the above-mentioned objectives of the coal industry. however, high-temperature reactors (htrs) are needed to achieve a coal-nuclear synergy. in europe, research into high-temperature reactors has been going on for several years. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. such a centre will strengthen europe's technological capacity, including its coal industry. it can also make a significant contribution to the acceptance of nuclear energy in europe by working directly with the coal industry, seeking to modernise it rather than competing with it. given the importance of coal in the polish energy sector, it seems reasonable that such a european hub should be established in poland. without decisive action, we will lose the technological race in this area with the us, south africa, china and south korea. i urge the commission to take into account the need for such a centre in the multiannual technical guidelines for the research fund for coal and steel research programme.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. we often see a disregard for the role and importance of culture. you see the economy, but you see culture as something that's on the side, as an accessory. its cultural, economic and social significance is not only underestimated. this report gives us a different picture of culture. please, let's just focus on the numbers. the european union has 1% of the gdp of all the member countries, and the cultural industry, the cultural industry alone, accounts for 2.6% of gdp and provides over 3% of employment, so this is a very important problem. but that data is not complete. it is well known that the role and significance of crafts, folk handicrafts and artistic products, as well as many areas that are influenced by culture, are not covered here. that is why i think this report is very important and we should continue this work and get involved and support commissioner figel, because he has taken a very good direction - a direction that gives everyone a chance.
madam president! congratulations on this important cultural report. jean monet is credited with saying that if he had to start all over again, he would start with culture. europe's written history spans two and a half millennia, and its content is rich and varied. culture is an essential component of the development of our civilization. activities in favour of cultural industries should be supported. it would be good if there were funds to develop a network of modern libraries in poland for people who cannot afford to buy books. there are still districts in warsaw where there are no scientific readings of the real event. there is no efficient interlibrary exchange system. young people have to go downtown to access their research. the library system in the united states could be a model for this. we need funding to develop local libraries that will provide access to the materials needed to enable learning. i don't agree with the whole point of the t-report. national identity and language are the justification of creativity. modern european culture didn't begin until dante and petrarch started writing in italian. the reason for the development of european civilization has always been the development of the human individuality, its spiritual progress and the fact that societies have used this fact to enrich the content of their collective life.
madam president! the draft resolution stresses the link between the flourishing of the cultural industries and the cross-border mobility of artists and encourages the commission to present a green paper on the internal market for creators of products and services, which will provide an opportunity to compare developments in this field. the report highlights the role of culture in community policies and the role of cultural education in the development of personality and sense of identity. creativity, participation in the creation of added value, are an important economic role of the cultural industry. its actual contribution to economic development, especially in the music and publishing sectors, is many times greater than its expenditure on cultural development. i congratulate the rapporteur.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank mr graça moura for his commitment, the committee itself and all relevant contributors to this report. i believe that it confirms that culture deserves a more central place in our discussions, and in our days and years of cooperation. i think it is confirmation that we have moved from an original agenda dominated by hard material – coal and steel – to intangibles like culture, education, creativity and citizenship. we cannot measure it in kilos or tonnes but it is about the future of our unity, of our communities at local, regional and national, as well as european, level. i think that is why we put forward the proposal. since last year it has received a great deal of concrete attention and support in the public domain in the member states as well as in the council. i am happy to see it because this was the most important answer: we want to work more through culture, for culture and also for the world of cultures or culture in the world. i am happy to see your support for this agenda, which is also very important. it has always been very clear to me as commissioner, and also to the commission, that the parliament seeks to do more in these areas. of course we need to adopt a common approach. this is the way to implement this agenda. the three basic areas are important, and were also mentioned in the previous report: creative industries; cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue; and, equally important, the external dimension – external cooperation in culture and culture in the union’s external policy. i agree with you that we should not give too much weight to the economic importance of culture, but we really need to get the right balance in our cultural policies. your report rightly recognises the importance of giving culture a larger role in international relations. we consider that this is an opportunity to build a proactive and constructive agenda on cultural diversity in community policies. i know i can count on your collaboration in this matter. on the issue of mobility, we support the need for transnational mobility of cultural players as a major tool for building a european cultural area. look, for example, at erasmus in education. after a decade – now two decades – we have a european higher education area, the most popular programme and a lot of modernisation and openness at our universities. i think this quest for mobility, knowledge, respect and acceptance should also be developed in the area of arts and culture. i believe we can achieve a great deal now by starting the pilot project on mobility that you in the parliament proposed last year. last, but not least, it is important, as i said, to adopt a common approach. i am happy that member states endorsed open methods of coordination. in november last year two expert working groups with representatives of member states were set up with the aim of enhancing mobility of artists and culture professionals, as well as maximising the potential of the cultural and creative industries. you will be duly informed of the results of the work within these groups. as you know, we set up the cultural forum and the first was organised under the portuguese presidency, for which i am grateful. we also suggest that the cultural and creative sector at large should set up a platform on the cultural and creative industries and one on the access to culture, along the lines of the existing platform on intercultural dialogue. i think that there is a growing volume of potential contribution and i am happy to work with my colleagues in the commission, as well as here with you in parliament, to reinforce the mainstreaming of culture in many other eu policies. i am, of course, looking forward, not only to the debate, but especially to the implementation of this agenda.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - what are you doing? i would like to congratulate mr grasamur on a good report which sets out the priorities in the cultural field in a coherent and concrete way and sets out long-term objectives. the report shows how important culture is for the development of the european union and for boosting its innovation potential and competitiveness. culture is a sector that creates jobs and that really drives economic growth. on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to draw attention to the importance of the regions of the european union as an important forum for cultural cooperation. culture and language are the driving forces behind regional development and attract investment, especially in regions with low development, poor natural resources or tourist and recreational attractions. this is why the role of local and regional authorities is so important in the comprehensive promotion and nurturing of culture in their areas. there is only one thing in the report that i object to, and i am speaking on behalf of the alde group, so as not to repeat myself in a moment, and that is the wording of paragraph k, which suggests that immigrants and tourists should submit to european traditions and heritage. that's not the right word. during the committee's work, the alde members voted against. in the year of intercultural dialogue, it is also worth stressing that the european union, while realising the practical value of intercultural dialogue, should be open to other cultures. promote and create areas of cooperation by proposing interesting programmes. it is therefore unfortunate that the possibility of european third countries participating in the highly mobilizing and prestigious european capital of culture programme after 2010 has been eliminated. madam president, i was about to speak again, so i'm going to ask for another 10 seconds at this point and i won't speak again, if i may. i believe that it is above all those countries covered by the european neighbourhood policy that should be able to participate in such a programme. i warmly support the report's call for 2010 to be declared the european year of frédéric chopin, on the occasion of the bicentenary of the birth of this brilliant composer whose contribution to european and world culture is undeniable.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. it's a very valuable, well-written document. i would like to congratulate mr. graça moura. the draft resolution draws attention to the need for a special approach to cultural issues in the era of globalisation. despite our openness to the heritage of other cultures, it is of the utmost importance to preserve, disseminate and promote european culture. it is important to recall the sources of our culture, and in particular the role of the greek and latin classics, but also to draw attention to those areas of culture that cross borders without obstacles, without the need for translation. i'm thinking about music and painting. in 2010 it will be 200 years since the birth of frédéric chopin, the genius composer known throughout the world. highlighting the importance of this event will help to recognise the role played by all the great european musicians: mozart, liszt, haendel, haydn, schumann, verdi, grieg, berlioz, paganini and many others in the creation of european civilisation and its contribution to world culture. the report also highlights the current problems of artists, including cross-border mobility, and the impact of their mobility on artistic development, and highlights the role of art in economic development.
member of the commission. − madam president, i think that we all share a common objective: that of achieving a balance between the economic efficiency of such systems but, at the same time, protecting small fisheries. i agree with what the rapporteur said, namely that fisheries cannot be looked at purely in economic terms. i need to stress here that the subject is far from simple. i certainly agree that such systems are a complex matter. as i said before, we have to take into account in our reflections possible limitations on the concentration of rights, the resolution of allocation issues and measures for the protection of artisanal fisheries, and we have to approach this matter gradually. in the short term, we need to learn more, we need to identify best practices and we need to study where rights-based managements systems have operated successfully in certain member states and look at experiences in third countries. all this will clearly be an important issue for discussion in the context of the next reform. i certainly look forward to the input from the committee on fisheries on this issue. i have noted all the comments made by all the parliamentarians who have spoken on this subject.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? with the adoption, the discussion today and the vote tomorrow on the 2009 guidelines, we are taking the first step in a budgetary procedure which, for at least two reasons, is different from the routine of previous years. the first reason is that we are testing a new form of cooperation between parliament's administration and the budget committee we are treating this as a pilot project, but it should be in line with the rules generally applicable to the budgetary procedure after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. secondly, 2009 brings new challenges that no one is disputing. the likely entry into force of the lisbon treaty, thus the substantial strengthening of the european parliament's codecision powers, paving the way for parliament's activity as a genuine legislative body, is certainly such a challenge. secondly, it is an election year, so it has the costs of the election campaign and some costs - apart from the savings, of course - of the end of the current term of the european parliament. thirdly, the statute for members of the european parliament comes into force, which increases the burden of personnel costs, the burden of our costs on the budget of the european parliament. in many of these cases we already have some quantification, some calculation, because in parallel with the rules we are getting the first forecasts, the first preliminary budget for 2009. however, the most important aspect, the increase in the european parliament's powers following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, is the work of the working group which will determine the additional costs that may be involved. while recognising the particular challenges ahead in 2009, we cannot at the same time exempt ourselves from the burden of managing european taxpayers' money sparingly, i.e. from certain self-restraints that we will also expect from other european institutions. the increase in the administrative budget in an election year is certainly not the message that the european electorate is waiting for, when we ask them to renew the mandate of the european parliament. the core of the guidelines is also an internal commitment to look for opportunities in the so-called redeployment of existing human resources, not in the augmentation of the staff pool, and to focus on those functions that will shape the future of the european parliament, which we call correctivity, and which are related to legislation. we must also talk today, and we should talk about an issue which has some media significance and which of course also has extra-budgetary dimensions. well, we need three new regulations in parallel. the first is the statute for members of the european parliament, which should be implemented and which has a clear budgetary dimension, the second is the new rules for the pension fund and the third is the rules for the recruitment of assistants, which should be sufficiently transparent to avoid any temptation or suspicion in the european parliament's circles. as rapporteur, i propose that reference be made to the resolution of our parliament of 25 october 2007 and the unanimous decisions of the bureau and the conference of presidents of the political groups. i know that we are more interested in calculations than in the guidelines, and i hope that we can vote on this document tomorrow.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the guidelines for the 2009 budgetary procedure, which you have presented to the rapporteur, mr janusz lewandowski, concern the european parliament in the main and can be applied to the other sections. the 2009 budgetary constraints and the many new tasks ahead, linked to the lisbon treaty, the elections to the european parliament, the change in the member's statute and the proposed introduction of the assistant's statute, will make 2009 a very difficult year. there are a lot of unknowns, which is why the implementation of the guidelines will be the most important. detailed needs and related cost analyses will allow for a financial framework, while ensuring the smooth functioning of parliament and enabling it to meet new challenges. our political group will vote in favour of the report.
madam president! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, the inflation rate in the individual countries of the european union is clearly increasing and, consequently, the average inflation rate in the union will be around 4% in 2008, so that a 2% annual revaluation of expenditure means a real reduction in expenditure. secondly, the adoption of the lisbon treaty will have the consequence of a marked increase in the powers of the european parliament, the co-decision procedure in all areas, and the powers of the parliaments of the member states, which will result in a marked increase in the cost of running the european parliament. and thirdly, 2009 is the year of the european parliament elections. the voter turnout in these elections has been exceptionally low, especially in the new member states. therefore, additional expenditure is needed for information campaigns, mainly targeted at regional and local media, which can be used to reach voters in the most effective way.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? thank you to everyone who participated in the debate. the issue that most often came up in this debate, apart from the specific challenges of 2009 and the need to manage european taxpayers' money sparingly, was certainly the issue of meps' assistants. i would like to see this problem not become a field of competition between political groups, because all the groups in our parliament share the awareness of the need for such a regulation, which will put aside the temptations of corruption and suspicion surrounding this matter, but at the same time take into account the diversity of the 27 countries participating in the european union. i reassure my colleague kuzmiuk that spending is expected to rise by 4.8%, which is probably above the european average inflation rate. and i want ingeborg gräßle to finish her reports by midnight.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on the amendments to the financial regulations of the executive agencies and their bodies, i would like to draw attention to two points. firstly, the rapporteur's proposal to require the director of the agency to notify the european parliament if he has transferred funds from operational to administrative appropriations in excess of 10% of the ceiling should be supported. secondly, since the operating costs of the executive agencies are covered by the budgets of the programmes, it considers that the level of these costs is close to 10%. the lack of detail on the amount of these costs for the ten-t agency raises further questions in the light of the information that more than eur 40 billion is missing for the projects that the agency is working on. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs gräßle on two very good reports.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to refer to the commission's work in progress on the development of the framework we need for adaptation to climate change in europe - but also in the rest of the world - particularly in the very poor countries, which, while not having contributed to the greenhouse effect, will nevertheless be the ones to suffer the most adverse consequences. following the green paper on adaptation to climate change, adopted in june 2007, the commission is preparing, as mr sacconi said, the white paper to be published in autumn 2008. the main objective of the white paper is to provide the european union with an ambitious and effective strategy to limit the effects of unavoidable climate change. a change that has already happened and will happen in the coming years, regardless of the measures to limit carbon dioxide emissions that i hope we will take and for which i hope we will have an agreement in copenhagen in 2009. the european union also has a leading role and will continue to play it in international initiatives on adaptation - initiatives developed under the united nations international treaty. the commission has meanwhile continued its cooperation with the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other scientific bodies active in research in relevant fields in order to find the most appropriate ways for the international community to address the challenges identified in recent reports. the commission welcomes the european parliament's resolution on the green paper and i can tell you that it supports most of it. i will mention in particular the need to derive maximum benefits from the synergy between efforts to reduce emissions and adaptation, the need to strengthen research and further scientific information collection, the protection of ecosystems, the analysis and evaluation of current and future funding mechanisms. the need to strengthen the link between research and policies and to integrate, where necessary, the adaptation parameters into the internal and external policies of the european union, while ensuring the full involvement of all national administrations and civil society in tackling the problem. in drawing up the white paper on adaptation, the commission will of course make full use of the input of the stakeholders in the dialogue, as well as the views of the european parliament, and i thank you for your support to date of the european commission's efforts.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sacconi, on a very good resolution. i fully support this resolution. i wanted to tell you, my friend, that we've managed to avoid discussing anything in this resolution other than adaptation. we have been dealing with adaptation, and i congratulate you on limiting this resolution to adaptation and mitigation. but i would like to highlight four things that are very important. we must remember that the effects of climate change outside europe, in asia, africa and oceania, are enormous and cannot be compared to what we are experiencing here on the european continent. second, we need to develop technologies, ways of adaptation that are related to mitigation and adaptation, to adapt to what's happening to the climate today. we also need to develop it so that we can share our experience with poorer countries, with developing countries. why do we need this? because the key political challenge that the european union faces is negotiating post-kyoto, because it is much cheaper to prevent climate change, to counteract climate change, than to adapt to it. we've already seen this if we go to countries in asia, countries in africa, islands in oceania, and so that's what we're aiming for: for the whole world to decide to take action on climate change. this must happen in poznan and copenhagen and we - the european union - are responsible for it. and lastly, we have no items in our eu budget that correspond to our priorities. our priority today is to fight climate change, and to also address climate change. the union's energy policy is linked to this. we don't have those priorities. we must review this item in the mid-term review of the budget, because our budget must reflect what is most important in the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. climate change is indeed one of the most important problems facing humanity today. but climate change, contrary to what we're told, is a change that man cannot significantly alter. these are natural cycles linked to solar activity, phenomena that occur in the earth's crust, and there is no scientific evidence, commissioner, no substantial scientific evidence, other than the quasi-religion you are trying to create, that a radical reduction in carbon emissions, which is only possible in europe, will have a significant impact on the reduction of climate change. and if it's true, as i say, if we spend a huge, unimaginable amount of money on reducing carbon emissions, and india, china, the united states don't get behind us, that money will be wasted, and could be used for a lot of other things, like providing europeans everywhere with clean water, reducing pollution, eliminating poisonous gases, oxides, nitrogen, sulphur, fluoride and so on. we could have clean air and clean water and still have some left over for other purposes. i'm not saying that climate change isn't happening and that we shouldn't be doing austerity. what i'm saying is that it's a mythology, a philosophy that's being adopted here, that the main problem is the emission of carbon dioxide as a key greenhouse gas on a scale that human intervention can change, by altering or limiting the potential for global warming. commissioner, there are very serious studies at the moment, there are documents signed by several hundred climate scientists who question this type of solution. i urge you, commissioner, and the scientists with whom you work, to analyse this problem before making strategic decisions, since these decisions will be very dangerous for the future of humanity.
mr. chairman, please! the debate that mr sacconni's question has triggered is of great importance to the citizens of europe. we must link climate action to reducing the adverse effects on our global markets, especially the sharp rise in the price of gas and oil, of which we are the largest importer. we also have to consider the effect of increasing co2. the fact is that the great growth of trees, plants, took place when the co2 content in the air was much higher. in poland, during the last millennium, there was a period when the ice was used to cross the baltic to sweden and a period when the grain and apples were harvested in april. the apple trees are now in bloom. therefore, the accepted thesis of a dangerous greenhouse effect as a result of increased co2 emissions should be confronted with the opposite opinion of a large number of scientists. there may be other causes of weather anomalies and droughts. in the case of action programmes, a lack of understanding of the subject can lead to unnecessary expenditure from our own pockets. it is a fact that co2 emissions are accompanied by nitrogen compounds, sulphur, and micropollutants harmful to the environment and the health of citizens, especially in growing urban areas. economic and environmental considerations require that industry policies focus on priorities such as: reducing the demand for hydrocarbon fuels, the use of renewable energy, biofuels and the promotion of nuclear energy, the use of coal resources in chemical processing, not only in power plants, the use of electric vehicles in transport and communications. these priorities significantly reduce co2 and other harmful substances and add value for union citizens. in each of these themes, resources should be secured in the form of preferential priorities and grants.
mr. chairman, please! the year ahead will be a time of many changes and challenges for the european parliament. the year 2009 is not only a year of new elections, another parliamentary term, but above all the challenges of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. life, not just political life, is not static, it requires change, new plans and concepts of action. changes usually require increased financial expenditure to be effective, but budgetary resources must be managed more efficiently by avoiding unnecessary red tape.
mr. chairman, please! any initiative to promote and stimulate coal and steel production deserves the support of the european parliament. they are particularly important because no dynamic economy can do without these industries. it is also worth noting that the largest producers of these raw materials are located outside the european union, while the position of the member states in this respect is exceptionally weak. there is no doubt that the demand for coal and steel will continue to grow, driven by the dynamic growth of the asian economies. despite the need to gradually replace coal with renewable and more environmentally friendly fuels, it will remain the main source of energy and wealth for many regions of the european union for many years to come.
mr. chairman, please! the european union must speak with one voice on such important issues as freedom, democracy and human rights. that is why it was so important to take a clear stand on the situation in tibet and take decisive steps to make china respect these values. we have a moral duty to remind china of the promises it made to the world public when it applied to host the olympics, and that was about human rights, because none of those promises have been kept. china is now an economic powerhouse that cannot be ignored. but it is very bad when politicians put the pursuit of certain economic objectives, the conclusion of favourable trade agreements, above the protection of fundamental values. we must end the policy of separating economic and human rights in our policy towards china. however, this should not mean economic marginalisation. the opposite is true. we need to engage china in international norms, get them to respect them.
mr. chairman, please! on behalf of the european parliament, i work very closely with my colleagues in the croatian parliament. hence my resignation. croatia has already decided that its future is linked to the european union when it declared its independence. all the actions of the croatian authorities that lead to the solution of key problems such as the reform of the public sector, the judiciary or the fight against corruption should be appreciated. croatia shall cooperate closely with the court in the hague. the constitutional law on the integration of national minorities into socio-political life in croatia is to be congratulated. croatia needs the union and the european union needs croatia, not least because of its geostrategic location. its membership will contribute to the stability and full development of democracy in the western balkans region.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the resolution on the fight against cancer in the enlarged european union because it is a very important problem affecting millions of europeans, especially in the newly enlarged countries. there is a need for co-financing, perhaps even financing, of control and screening studies at union level. these actions should become a priority for the european union and should be binding on our citizens. the european commission should prepare a pan-european awareness and information campaign on the prevention, early detection, diagnosis and treatment of cancer. only together, by joining our efforts, can we win the fight against cancer. this fight is a difficult but necessary challenge for europe and the world.
mr. chairman, please! literature, theatre, architecture, visual arts, crafts, cinema, radio and television are all ways of showing europe's cultural diversity. although they belong to individual countries or regions in europe, they form part of the common european cultural heritage. the european union aims to preserve, promote and share this diversity. this was defined, amongst others, in the maastricht treaty, which for the first time formally expressed the cultural dimension of european integration. the european social fund supports the arturo toscanini foundation in italy, which has been running training courses for unemployed musicians since the mid-1990s. one of the european union's flagship programmes, known as culture, will run from 2007 to 2013 and will have a budget of around €400 million for that period. the programme shall cover cultural activities which are not of an audiovisual nature. i hope that we will continue to support artists and all cultural activities, which are just as important as economic and industrial activities. that is why i voted for this report.
mr president, i have voted in support of the graça moura report, as we spend too little time and money on supporting culture. we focus on the economy, markets, labour and trade, but where would europe be without painters, musicians and literary artists? last night, commissioner figeľ told us that culture is more important than business. i can only add that culture generates business or, in the words of one historian, ‘there would be no mailmen without writers’. on the 200th anniversary of the birth of fryderyk chopin, the polish composer, let us show the world that great music and culture was born on this continent.
mr. chairman, please! climate change is a challenge for many sectors of the economy, but it also threatens europe's biodiversity and disrupts social development. the effects of climate change can only be prevented by reducing greenhouse gas emissions at regional, local, and all sectors of the economy and all walks of life. the european union should build a global alliance, especially with developing countries they are also increasingly responsible for the accumulation of greenhouse gas emissions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and its implementation in the context of the union's climate and energy policy. action in this area should be taken at global, regional and local levels, above all political and other divisions.
in writing. − the european migration network can no longer operate without a clear legal basis. as a member of the libe committee, i fully support the report by luciana sbarbati, which seeks to accept the commission proposal and the general agreement reached in the council on this matter. i believe that the council decision will be the appropriate legal basis, provided that the opinion of the european parliament is fully taken into account. the rapporteur's proposal not to create a new institution to monitor migration flows but to strengthen and consolidate the one that already exists, based on a network of national contact points, seems particularly worthy of support. i also support the suggestion to extend the network's remit to include asylum in addition to migration and to extend its information and research powers, including research, analysis and evaluation related to the application and implementation of the directives. i believe that all the activities of the network should be more useful, allowing the practical use of its work by the bodies involved in the decision-making process. it is good that the network will also be responsible for collecting and sharing data on immigration and asylum. this will allow them to be exchanged and compared, and in the future to develop common criteria and indicators at european level.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the multiannual technical guidelines for the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i agree with the position presented by mr adam gierka that, given the importance of the fund for the proper development of the eu economy, especially in the new member states, the esi funds should continue to operate. steel is still one of the most important raw materials for the machinery and construction industries, and the technological possibilities for improving its quality and the efficiency of its production processes are far from exhausted. as has been rightly emphasised, increased competitiveness of coal in the energy market depends on the efficient use of regional resources, which will have a disproportionate impact on the increase of energy security in the eu.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by professor gierk on the research fund for coal and steel. in line with the council's guidelines, the research fund for coal and steel was reviewed this year after five years of operation in terms of energy efficiency and environmental protection. it should be stressed that its great advantage is that it can be used to complement research not covered by the 7th framework programme. the commission also takes the view that the fbwis should continue to operate, as steel is still one of the most important raw materials for the machinery and construction industries, which are sectors that require continuous research. the fund will also allow for a better use of coal in the energy market, which will make a significant contribution to the eu's energy security, bearing in mind that the extraction of this raw material requires a succession of exploratory studies. another important issue is the introduction of gender balance in research teams, which will help to increase the participation of women in this field.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on authorisations for fishing activities by community vessels outside community territorial waters and the access of third country vessels to community territorial waters (com (2007) 0330 c6-0236/2007 2007/0114 (cns)). mr morillon rightly stressed that it was essential for the eu to have a clear authorisation system for both activities, in order to achieve maximum compliance with the provisions of fisheries agreements and to provide greater transparency for eu vessels operating in third country waters. in addition, there is no doubt that the priority given by the commission and the eu to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and the significant losses to fish stocks caused by iuu fishing vessels in developing countries is of the utmost importance.
in writing. - at the beginning of this year i was a member of the delegation of the committee on foreign affairs to zagreb and i agree with the rapporteur on the points set out in the report discussed yesterday, which is why i voted today in favour of mr swoboda's report. i would like to congratulate the croatian authorities on the positive results achieved so far in their path towards eu membership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the fight against cancer, because cancer is a disease that is taking its toll all over the world, including in the eu countries, including poland. widespread and regular screening can help to detect the disease earlier in its early stages, and this greatly increases the chances of cure. there is also a need for a more open exchange of experience between cancer centres, so that the latest advances in knowledge in this field can be used to the fullest extent possible. recently, there has been a very worrying increase in breast cancer. it is therefore necessary to raise awareness of the risks and to increase access to professional mammography examinations. it is also of the utmost importance to minimise human exposure to carcinogens. in particular, attention should be paid to preservatives used in the food industry, improperly used fertilisers and plant protection products, and asbestos, which until recently was used in construction or in water pipes. these measures must include anti-nicotine prevention.
in writing. − the impact of culture on economic growth and employment was confirmed in a study published at the end of 2006 by the european commission, which showed that in 2003, the cultural sector accounted for around 2.6% of eu gdp, generated by more than 5 million people employed in the sector in the eu. there is a gradual awareness of the economic dimension of culture and its role in job creation and the development of rural and urban areas. in addition to its direct contribution to the economy, the cultural and creative sectors have an indirect impact on the european socio-economic environment and contribute to the development of information and communication technologies. the cultural industry, playing a vital role at local, regional and urban level, is a significant contributor to competitiveness in the european union. it is therefore gratifying that both the council and the commission intend to recognise the role of culture and creativity as important factors for regional development, the promotion of european citizenship and the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
in writing. - i supported the report on the european agenda for culture in the age of globalisation, as it stresses that the union's cultural policy contributes to european integration, while respecting the national and regional diversity of the member states. the community can only act in the field of cultural policy if its measures complement and support, and do not replace, the action of individual countries. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has adopted the amendment tabled by the polish members of the committee on culture (ewa tomaszewska and zdzisław podkański) concerning the declaration of 2010 as the year of the memory of fryderyk chopin. it is worth mentioning that this year marks the 200th anniversary of the birth of this brilliant composer.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm asking you to change the vote on iran or chad to georgia. the issue in georgia is so pressing that a russian duma resolution calls on the president to consider recognizing the independence of transnistria, abkhazia and south ossetia and to increase russian forces in the region. the territorial integrity of georgia is guaranteed by 36 un resolutions adopted in 1993. there is also a peace plan for abkhazia by president saakashvili. i think this is a priority, which is why i'm asking you to change the subject. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i want to speak on the same issue. well, the olympic flame was extinguished with the blood of the tibetan people, the blood that is shed every day in tibet. the closer the olympics get to the opening, the more the chinese are increasing their repression of their own citizens and the tibetan people. at the last session in brussels, we adopted a resolution criticizing the chinese authorities' human rights violations. we also made a decision that the chinese would resume negotiations with the dalai lama. unfortunately, this voice was not heard at all by the slovenian presidency. i think that our parliament should respond decisively to the fact that the dalai lama has not been invited by the slovenian foreign minister, dimitrij rupela, to an official meeting in the european union. our parliament is the conscience of europe and that conscience cannot be silenced by the words of any minister in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i rise again to speak on the issue of freedom of speech in russia. the moscow correspondent newspaper disappeared from newsstands after it became interested in news of vladimir putin's alleged divorce. what happens in france in the light of the flash, in russia is shrouded in mystery, and it is obvious that information about the civil status of the head of state simply belongs to the public. moreover, no one has the right to even ask these questions, as shown by vladimir putin's recent attack on a journalist from the independent gazette, in which he made a woman cry. in russia, the standards of the relationship between the government and the media that are accepted in the civilized world still do not apply the media is a tool controlled by the government. if they don't act according to her intention, they are closed down, and journalists are intimidated or, in extreme cases, physically eliminated, as anna politkovskaya was. freedom of speech is the foundation of democracy. once again, we see that russian democracy is built on very weak foundations.
mr. chairman, please! the polish parliament was one of the first to consider the ratification of the lisbon treaty and adopted a law expressing its consent to the signing of the ratification document by the president of the republic of poland. many eu countries have not yet taken any decisions on this matter. the blocking of the constitutional treaty was the result of the will of the citizens of france and the netherlands. i am not referring to the content of either of those documents. each of us may have a different opinion on this matter. i would like to point out, however, that in this chamber, and not only in this chamber, critical remarks have been made about poland in connection with the course of the ratification process, and they have been made by representatives of countries which have so far done nothing in this matter. i consider such conduct to be unreasonable and to be in bad faith.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. in the debate on the 2009 budgetary priorities, i would like to draw the attention of the uen group to the following points. firstly, if the lisbon treaty is ratified in all the member states, then in 2009 there will be both a transfer of competence from the member states to the community and the conferral of new competence on the european union, and this will, in my view, have a significant impact on the expenditure of the european union budget. secondly, 2009 is likely to be the fifth consecutive year of continuous food price increases, according to experts' forecasts, causing increasing social problems both in poorer member states and in countries receiving food aid from the european union. the union budget for 2009 should take greater account than before of both support for the growth of agricultural production in europe and support for the export of agricultural products from the union. finally, thirdly, the prevention of climate change, which is one of the priorities of the 2009 budget, imposes additional burdens on the economies of the member states, unfortunately without taking into account the delay in their development. this puts the new member states in a particularly difficult situation and can have serious negative economic and social consequences for them.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the two most brutal totalitarian regimes of the 20th century - nazi germany and communism of the soviet and chinese types - committed horrendous crimes. the total number of victims may exceed 100 million, killed and tortured in the holocaust, mass executions and deportations, man-made famines, death camps, and concentration camps. the nazi system killed for racial reasons, the communist system for class reasons. the ideologies that underpinned these systems excluded entire groups of citizens, condemning them to death or physical and social degradation in order to build a new, supposedly better society. there was a special hatred of religion. in these systems, not only was power monopolized, but language was also turned into a tool of propaganda and terror. today, more than 60 years after the end of the second world war and a dozen years after the collapse of soviet communism, it is astonishing that there are still people in the european union who resist the recognition of the crimes of communism. how many ways are there to rationalize the past of communism? what moral reason is there to consider the victims of nazism more important than the victims of communism? why can't we work out a joint resolution on this? i'm not going to let you do this. this is not just a matter for individual member states. if the union feels responsible and competent to condemn racism and xenophobia, it should find the courage to condemn the crimes of communism as well. i say this not only as a politician, but also as a historian. the similarities between the two systems do not necessarily give rise to any dispute as to their comparability. emphasizing the uniqueness of communist crimes does not diminish nazi crimes, and vice versa. it is simply that simple honesty and the memory of the countless victims of both these regimes demands that both of them be condemned, and that is what the working group we have set up in parliament, called united europe united history, to which some 50 members have already applied for membership, will be seeking.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. war is one thing, but genocide and crimes against humanity are another. not every war is about destroying the vanquished side, but a foreign nation can be destroyed without war. the powerful hatred of the conquerors and oppressors was often felt in the souls of the injured - that's how the romans looked at hannibal and mithridates. but that is nothing compared to the feelings of hostility that were born in the souls of criminals in the 20th century. the history of that century became more than a record of the wrongs done to certain nations. it has become the cause of the history of mankind and of inhumanity. the philosopher kant formulated the following imperative: act in such a way that humanity in any form is always the end for you, not the means. the origins of genocide are often discussed with emphasis. the question is, why was no one there to stop them in time? in the politics of totalitarianism, everything was planned and calculated. her first rule was to not expose herself prematurely, to pretend to be a friend until the last moment. i say this because today in many countries there are openly para-fascist and para-communist environments. hence the importance of the first two european hearing sessions on the history of totalitarian crimes. let's be frank and make it clear what can in no case be subject to so-called historical revisionism. genocide is not something that one nation can oppose, it must be opposed by the community of the entire civilized world. this is why it is a common task for the european union, among others.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to begin today's debate by recalling the figure of the leader of the polish socialist party, kazimierz pużak, a figure who may be the symbol of today's debate. pużak, first arrested at the beginning of the 20th century, in 1911, leader of the polish socialist party, leader of the underground socialist party during world war ii in the fight against nazism, arrested by the nkvd in 1945, tragically dies in a polish stalinist prison on april 30, 1950. for us socialists, democracy, the struggle for human rights, the rule of law, the principles of liberal democracy have always been the basis of politics. this is our legacy in europe today. at the same time, commissioner, i am addressing myself to you in particular at this moment, because history is unfortunately often manipulated, a kind of crusade, a colonization by the populist right, by nationalist movements. it is a paradox that we have a nationalist right wing that wants historical research, new tribunals, and at the same time is against the charter of fundamental rights as a european law. it's an incredible paradox. democracy, the rule of law, liberal democracy are the foundations of europe today. the unity of europe, the charter of fundamental rights, the rule of law worldwide, the rejection of torture - this is our response, which comes from the legacy of the 20th century: the fight for democracy, the fight against all dictatorships and totalitarian regimes. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! genocide has its own definition in international law, based on the un convention. as a pole citizen of a country that has experienced genocide i think that this definition should be expanded by two elements. it should be noted that genocide was usually aimed at eliminating the sense of national identity through the extermination of intellectual and cultural elites. an example is poland, where the germans and the russians during the second world war murdered mainly the intelligentsia, professors, priests. secondly, we need to think about how, in international law, to punish for falsifying history, false propaganda, not admitting to genocide. an example is russia's attitude to stalinist crimes, as well as katyn crimes. poland is an advocate of ukraine's accession to the european union, but in order for history to unite us rather than divide us, we believe that ukraine should recognize the crimes committed against poles and jews during the second world war, when more than 150,000 people were killed. the european union should be an organisation that sets an example to the world of uncompromising commitment to the fight against genocide. therefore, as politicians elected by the people, we must condemn communism as an ideology and a criminal system.
i would like to express my appreciation for the decision to allow today's debate, which deals with the issue of bloody totalitarian systems. it is a pity that it is so short and voluminous and, surprisingly, that the usual resolution has been dropped. it is also surprising that at various levels of the union, german national socialism, popularly called nazism, is the main subject of discussion and discussion, while international socialism, or communism, is silent. these systems were not only linked by ideological roots, but also by practical interaction. communism was born of rosa luxemburg, liebknecht, marx, lenin and stalin, leading to the planned death of tens of millions of people in central and eastern europe. many bloody crimes, like the katyn massacre, are forbidden to speak of today by refusing to call them genocide. the construction of a democratic europe is only possible on the basis of the truth, including the truth about the inhuman communist totalitarianism. we owe a debt of memory and justice not only to the victims of inhuman systems, but above all to the present and future generations, to ensure that this situation never happens again.
in writing. europe has experienced numerous acts of genocide in the 20th century. some are talked about a lot and often, while others are kept quiet. the nazi and communist genocides are the most common news stories. one genocide that is still being kept quiet is the murder of hundreds of thousands of jews, poles and ukrainians in german-occupied poland during world war ii by ukrainian nationalists in the so-called ukrainian insurgent army, a group whose members had previously served in the nazi ss. the genocide was atrox genocide, or savage genocide, carried out with particular cruelty. the entire population of the area was murdered, with the victims being cut or dismembered. currently, those involved in these killings are seeking combatant status in ukraine. i want to emphasize that nothing can justify genocide. even the pursuit of freedom and sovereignty for your own people.
mr president, when talking about incitement to terrorism in the age of the internet and the age of new technologies we are talking about completely new challenges and completely new threats and, as my colleague has said, we must strike a very fine balance between infringing the civil liberties of various political organisations and combating threats to our security and the security of our citizens. in recent weeks, speakers from the council of europe, for example, have raised various concerns and asked us to adopt in full various recommendations presented by the council of europe. we must be selective as to what aspects of the council of europe’s very valuable work we transfer to the european parliament, because parliament has its own, unique role to play in this matter. in dealing with the new threats posed by terrorism, the most difficult problem we face will be to actually define what incitement is, and whether justified criticism of governments could ever be considered to be incitement to terrorism. that was one of the arguments presented recently, at a meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, by mr dick marty from the council of europe. he seemed to have little faith in our democratic structures, suggesting that various articles could be misused by governments. i have more faith than him in our democratic procedures, and believe we will be able to handle this issue sensitively, but also with the prudence it demands of this institution.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 april 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on the issue of visas for citizens of belarus and ukraine.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for asking me these questions in connection with the european visa regime with regard to ukraine and belarus. firstly, ukraine, the agreement on readmission and the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, which have entered into force since the beginning of this year, represent an important milestone in the relations between the european union and ukraine. on the one hand, they will promote contacts between peoples, which will improve mutual understanding and strengthen relations in all areas, and on the other hand, they will engage both parties, the european union and ukraine, in close cooperation against illegal immigration. the first priority is to ensure a rapid, operational and harmonised implementation of the agreement, aimed at facilitating the issuance of visas for ukrainian citizens. in order to ensure the correct and harmonised application of this agreement, draft guidelines have been drawn up and approved by the member states and the ukrainian authorities. these guidelines should be finalised and adopted in the short term by the joint committee established by the agreement. as stated in the preamble to the agreement between the european commission and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, the introduction of visa-free travel for the citizens of ukraine is recognised only as a long-term perspective. the process leading to such a regime is based in particular on the satisfactory implementation of the agreement on readmission and the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. i would like to stress that the enlargement of the schengen area has had no impact on the control arrangements applied at the borders between ukraine and the member states which joined the schengen area on 21 december 2007. these member states have applied the schengen rules on external border checks at their borders since the date of their accession and since september 2007 they have also been carrying out checks on persons in the framework of the schengen information system 'sis'. but to facilitate the movement of ukrainian citizens living in the border area, agreements on small border traffic have been signed between hungary and ukraine, and between ukraine and poland. the commission has also requested changes to the agreement between ukraine and hungary in relation to the delimitation of the border area so that the agreement is fully in line with community rules; the same was true of the agreement between ukraine and poland. so, here's to those movements of ukrainian citizens who live in the border area. however, the situation is different when it comes to visas. before 21 december 2007, member states which did not fully apply the schengen acquis were not bound by the schengen provisions on visa rights. these member states could therefore exempt all ukrainian citizens from this right. but today, that's not possible. the general visa fee of eur 60 does not apply to ukrainian applicants. as confirmed by the agreement between the european community and ukraine of 1 january 2008, the fee for processing visa applications of ukrainian citizens is still eur 35. in addition, the agreement exempts broad categories of ukrainian visa applicants, which suggests that more than 50%, i repeat, more than 50% of ukrainian nationals travelling to schengen countries today benefit from visa-free travel. i now turn to belarus. in its communication on the strengthening of the european neighbourhood policy of 4 december 2006, the commission underlined the importance of visa facilitation for relations with the countries concerned by the european neighbourhood policy. the commission reaffirmed the eu's willingness to commit to developing action plans with neighbouring countries and to enter into negotiations with them to facilitate the issuance of visas and readmission authorisations. belarus is one of the countries covered by the neighbourhood policy but it must be said that no action plan has yet been developed with this country because of the general political situation. this is why the opening of discussions with belarus on possible visa facilitation and readmission is not envisaged at this stage. however, i would point out that the acquis in force on the issue of short-term visas provides for exemption from visa duties for certain categories: children under the age of 6, students, researchers. in addition, member states may still, within the framework of existing rules, exempt from or reduce visa fees in individual justified cases, for example on humanitarian grounds, to protect cultural interests or in foreign policy matters. in addition, neighbouring member states, notably poland, latvia and lithuania, can still negotiate agreements on small crossborder traffic with belarus. this would be a means of facilitating border crossing and movement of border residents between belarus and neighbouring countries, by promoting contacts between local communities. border residents holding a special permit for small border traffic would be exempted from the visa requirement. negotiations between poland and belarus in this regard have already begun. that is what i wanted to indicate by pointing out the timeliness of the questions you have asked and by giving you the latest information on this problem.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for coming and presenting the latest position of the commission on visa issues for the ukraine and belarus. a month ago, a delegation which comprised members of most of the mainstream opposition in belarus visited strasbourg at the invitation of the ppe-de group to discuss how the political situation is developing in that country, but also during that visit colleagues may have seen their appeals to this parliament to support their efforts to reduce the visa fees they are currently paying, which are indeed prohibitive for the majority of belarus citizens. if we really want to encourage belarus to pick a pro-european route in future – which we sincerely hope will be the case – the strongest arguments we have are those which the belarus citizens can see with their own eyes. it is very difficult for them, in the regime in which they live, to have a real insight into what freedom and democracy, human rights and rule of law really mean. it is difficult to promote a civil society. it is difficult to show them that europe is open and friendly and supports their move towards a full democracy. the best way we can do that is to allow those citizens access into europe not at rates which will frighten or prohibit entry by most citizens. commissioner, you very rightly said that specific groups are excluded, and that is indeed children, and people with family contacts; it is people who are visiting the european union for cultural or scientific or educational reasons, and i would encourage individual member countries to make use of that legal provision to let those people actually make use of those facilities. but it is very sad that serbia and russia are treated on better terms than belarus’s citizens.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ignoring the interests of the ukrainians and the belarusians, the european union cannot ensure its security on its eastern border. we should encourage the widest possible range of people to come to the union from ukraine and belarus, while isolating the lukashenka regime. the democratic processes and the change in the mentality of our eastern neighbours, for example, in the perception of nato in ukraine, are most rapidly effected by personal experiences of visits to the countries of the european union. currently, belarusians have to pay 60 euros for a visa, which is as much as 1/3 of the average salary and prevents most of the population from coming. this is very much in the interests of the lukashenka regime, because the more limited the contacts with western european countries, the easier it will be to control the belarusian society. with visas, we isolate belarusian youth and people sympathetic to the opposition, and it is the west that should be concerned about maintaining contact with these social groups. the high visa fees only increase the activity of the visa mafia and other border pathologies. such barriers also cause considerable losses for polish tourism. in recent years, skiers from ukraine and belarus have been visiting poland's mountains in droves. most of them came in early january, when orthodox christmas begins. now the ski resorts in poland are glowing with emptiness. ladies and gentlemen, especially now that vladimir putin, at the nato summit in bucharest, has threatened to break up ukraine and declared that (i quote) ukraine is not even a state, and that part of its territory is eastern europe and part of it - and a significant part of it - was given to it by russia (end of quote). a clear signal is needed that the european union will not tolerate such threats in international politics against its closest neighbour. i call for a dialogue to be launched as soon as possible on concrete actions to abolish eu visas for ukrainians. i would like to make it clear that without ukraine, there is no real vision of a modern, secure europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. as a co-author of the question on visa pricing for belarus, i would like to thank you for your clarification today and draw your attention to a few additional points. the point is that belarus is not only a close neighbour of the european union, but it is the closest neighbour of my country - poland - and hence this concern and intervention for the welfare of the citizens of this country. after the schengen zone was expanded, you said that the visa prices for belarusians increased, but they increased by 12 times, from 5 to 60 euros. 60 euros is the monthly salary of a medical trainee in belarus. 60 euros is a real barrier for many belarusians, preventing them from getting visas and visiting their eu neighbours. we can already see that after the price increase for belarusians there has been a visible, sharp decline in the number of belarusian citizens travelling to the european union, and this is happening in a situation where the european union is seeking direct contact with the citizen, when it has a good neighbour policy in the lisbon treaty. in this situation, raising prices for the citizens of a country that is undemocratically governed, but for its citizens is a painful paradox. believe me, this decision to raise visa fees is a perfect gift for lukashenka, who uses this politically and tells the belarusians: you see, they have high, prohibitive prices. nobody's waiting for you in europe, nobody wants you there. this must be changed and i appreciate that the commissioner has mentioned poland as a country which intends to take care individually of lowering prices for belarusians, but this is not a task for poland, lithuania and individual countries. this is a task for the whole union. if we cannot solve this problem, how can we build a common foreign policy within the european union? i therefore call on the commission to take all the steps necessary to bring prices down for belarusians.
ukraine lifted the visa requirement for citizens of the european union in may 2005. the european union, on the other hand, took three years to make any statement on the matter. it must be said that the community's final reaction is very ambiguous. on the one hand, visa facilitation was introduced at the beginning of this year, simplifying certain procedures and abolishing the visa fee, but only for selected groups of citizens. for most ukrainians, the european union is an impregnable fortress, which opens its doors only to those who patiently endure a long and very costly battle in the consulates of the schengen countries. for many ukrainians, visas are too expensive. visa intermediaries generally charge fees that are double or even triple the maximum amount. secondly, the waiting time for visas in many consulates is prolonged and very long. third, some consulates require additional documents not mentioned in the contract. even holders of diplomatic passports face problems at border crossings. finally, a clear roadmap is needed for ukraine to pursue bilateral visa-free travel even under difficult conditions such as those imposed on serbia.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the schengen area cannot be a new wall between the european union and eastern europe. the european dream of a europe without borders has been fulfilled within the european union, while what is happening at the moment on the border between the european union and ukraine and belarus is a kind of political scandal for my generation the generation of solidarity in poland, which fought for the unity of europe. today, the difficulties of ukrainians and belarusians in getting into the european union are a problem that we must solve as soon as possible. i'm not going to let you do this. i appeal to you! we have a responsibility today - as europeans in rich countries, in democratic countries - to do everything we can to make the european union more open to civil society in belarus and ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! belarusian youth are often punished by losing their right to education for not complying with the wishes of the ruling party. poland is providing many of these young people with a place in our higher education institutions. this action must not be wasted by applying an economic blockade to the entry of young people into our country who want to be educated. this economic blockade should be lifted, visa fees should be reduced.
before i give the floor to the commissioner - and we have a short moment - i want to add something. as someone who travels to ukraine a lot, i want to say that the key issue in the visa issue, the whole visa system, is to convince the public of ukraine and belarus, whether this is a transitional state, what they have to live through at the moment. it's about pricing and procedures. the prices are prohibitive, the procedures are humiliating. these people stand for long hours, tens of hours in queues. so is this a transition state or is this a destination state? it is often said in ukraine that the schengen wall has been created, that by what has been introduced and what we all enjoy: we poles, the french, since long germany, it has actually made a natural isolation and this queue in front of the consulate, this refusal, this price is a signal to the public that is received very negatively in all these aspirations that we talk about so much in this room and many others. and that concludes our discussion. i'm sorry i broke the sacred rule that the chairman doesn't get involved in such matters, but i just couldn't help but have a say in the matter.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i listened carefully to what you have just said and this was supported by a very large number of speeches, which in fact stressed the need to facilitate access to the european union for the citizens of our neighbours. i think that a lot of what has been said has the stamp of common sense! the more citizens can exchange, the more they can influence the development of their own country towards democracy and european values. however, i am obliged to answer first for belarus. i explained why the negotiation of an agreement on visa facilitation had not been considered until now. the political situation may well change, and i would add that the european union is taking steps to be present in belarus, since a few days ago a commission office was set up in belarus. in any case, as i have already said, there is already the possibility for belarusian citizens to move within the european union within the framework of the acquis already in force. but i have listened to the appeals of both sides and i cannot say more than what i have said to you today about belarus. i would like to remind you that the situation in ukraine is more favourable. the agreement in question on visa rights for ukrainian citizens provides that schengen member states charge 35 euros for processing visa applications from ukrainian citizens, not 60 euros, which is considered the average cost of a visa. so there's been this effort already. and then i said that there were still categories of ukrainians who could get free. i am therefore very sensitive to what you have said. there is the price, but sometimes there is also the way in which the formalities have to be fulfilled, very long procedures, which give these citizens the feeling that the european union is indeed very far away from them. i must say that at the moment my attention is drawn to the problems facing in particular the citizens of the western balkan states. i'm trying to figure out how we can also make the procedures easier. i think that if we succeed, we can probably do the same for countries like ukraine. that is what i wanted to say to parliament, mr president, although i am well aware that the remarks of some are quite justified, but that, as things stand, progress has already been made. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's what i'm gonna do.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the report by mr adamou, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on organ donation and transplantation: policy action at eu level (2007/2210 (ini)) (a6-0090/2008).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the lofty aims of the commission communication on organ donation and transplantation and of policy action at union level, as well as the report by mr adamou stressing that organ donation is a gift and that it is important to respect and protect the free choice to donate or not to donate organs for transplantation, are not sufficient actions. nor will it be enough to introduce legislation for a european donor card without any amendments to the european parliament's documents on ethical and moral principles. failure to respect and follow moral principles in conduct and in law leads to the loss of the moral health of societies and to various kinds of abuses in all areas of social life, including science and medicine. beyond the spread of liberalism and commercialism, the reason for organ trafficking and other misuse is the enormous social stratification. and there's a group of very rich people who can afford everything, including organs for transplantation, and there are people who, when they're living in extreme poverty, especially when they're forced to, can donate their organs, reducing their chances of health and survival. this situation will not be changed by ensuring equal opportunities, equal access to health care, but by the need for real social security and legally supported actions to protect human health and life.
mr. chairman, please! transplantation suffers from a shortage of available organs. the demand is high, and therefore the money involved is high. and where there's a lot of money, there's abuse. as a result, we have a whole new class of crimes. we know of examples of poor donors buying organs and giving kidneys for transplantation for a few pennies. we hear about organ harvesting from death row inmates without asking their consent. we hear about potential donors being kidnapped and killed to get their organs. there have been cases of death being hastened to harvest organs. that's the phenomenon i want to look at. since the advent of transplantation, the definition of death has changed. there's a brain-dead criterion that was originally defined in 1968 in boston, known as the harvard criterion. since then, many other criteria for brain death have been developed, each one less restrictive. the irreversibility of brain function is not an observation, but a prediction. to test it, you disconnect the life support, and that disconnect could be the cause of death. in some cases, anesthesiologists are used to harvest organs from supposedly dead bodies so that the donor's body will not be harmed. what we need is to tighten, not liberalize, the death penalty. taking one life to save another is unacceptable.
mr. chairman, please! i see that we all agree that organ transplants cannot be a commercial activity. any commercial use of organs is simply unethical and contrary to basic human values. the huge demand for organs for transplantation can lead to pathology or even crime. all of europe was recently shocked by excerpts from a book by carla del ponte, which spoke of albanian terrorists who were performing commercial transplants on serbian citizens of kosovo. this is the issue that parliament and the countries of the european union should be addressing. i believe that the basis for organ donation and transplantation should be the informed consent of the donor. we must secure this solution, it must be the norm in europe.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 april 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr harkin, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the role of volunteering in economic and social cohesion (2007/2149 (ini)) (a6-0070/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to express my deep appreciation to mrs harkin for taking up this subject. volunteering is voluntary, unpaid and conscious work for the benefit of others. volunteering goes beyond family or friendships. although this is unpaid work, volunteers receive a different kind of satisfaction: they fulfill their motivations, they achieve a sense of purpose, they show solidarity with others. volunteering is very educational for young people and very invigorating for older people. in this context, the very positive impact of voluntary organisations on strengthening the bonds between local and regional communities should therefore be appreciated. it is, i believe, the building of a civil state in which one shows selfless help and kindness to another without being a threat to him. the example of ireland, which i was able to get to know, is very good here. but this understanding of volunteering also means that volunteers, who are often philanthropists, cannot suffer obvious material losses by helping others and making meaningful donations. i refer to the well-known example in poland of bankrupting a volunteer baker who was taxed for bread given to the poor. i would also like to highlight the beautiful idea of declaring 2011 the european year of volunteering.
mr. chairman, please! the promotion of an active and conscious role for citizens in society is one of the main objectives of the european socialist family. we support engagement in volunteering when it is a concrete expression of participatory democracy. at european level, volunteering is the implementation of european values such as solidarity, cohesion and social integration. for many, participation in such organisations is the only experience of the democratic process, apart from participation in elections to various levels of government. it is therefore gratifying that more than 20% of the union's population is involved in various types of voluntary activity. it should be emphasised that volunteering contributes to reducing economic inequalities and acts as a catalyst in the activities of associations and thus builds social capital. the concept of social capital is increasingly being used by organisations such as the oecd and the world bank in the field of local socio-economic development. the european union should strengthen its support for the different forms of participation, in particular in relation to regional and local development planning, by using community policies and european funds.
mr president, voluntary work, apart from its economic aspect, is of great educational value, particularly for young volunteers, be it at home or abroad, in various areas of social, economic and educational life. voluntary may mean ‘no payment’, but we as european institutions can help intensify it by various means. regarding the report, which i consider important in raising our level of consciousness, there is something missing. one group not mentioned here are male and female convents, missionaries who either do voluntary work around the world or organise and promote such work. i would welcome a monetary estimation of their contribution to people’s well-being. voluntary work is the product of intrinsic motivation and pure altruism, which are values that cannot be overestimated. this is a report crucial to our way of thinking.
mr. chairman, please! not everyone appreciates volunteer work as much as it deserves. not all countries pay attention to the formation of civic attitudes through volunteering. local government authorities are responsible for the organisation and delivery of social assistance, including feeding the poor. however, it is not uncommon for a ngo that works through volunteering to pay a high rent to the local government for the kitchen and canteen for the poor and homeless, without receiving any funds for food or insurance for the volunteers. without receiving a salary for their work, these people are unable to bear the costs of the organization's activities. i would like to draw your attention to the valuable article 15 of the report. the demographic situation in europe indicates the growing role of volunteering, especially in the care of the elderly. that's why this document is so important. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs harkin.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw your attention to two specific forms of volunteering. the first form is the transfer of know-how in a very specialized area. experienced and educated people are passing on their knowledge, skills, or even the achievements of their professional group to other people, to those who are often at the beginning of their learning, acquiring knowledge or skills for new tasks, for new challenges, to those who are often beginning their process of transformation. the second area of volunteering is for young people, where volunteering teaches life, contributes to their greater participation in civic life, and where volunteering trips to other countries contribute to intercultural dialogue and teach tolerance and respect. therefore, action by local, national and international organisations to support and facilitate volunteering and related activities is urgently needed.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating today the report by mrs harkin on the position of volunteering in the european union. it is up to us, and to those of us here, to decide how important it will be in the future of europe. i would simply like to point out that every year millions of citizens in the eu countries benefit from volunteering, both directly and indirectly. it operates at local, regional and international levels. wherever it appears, the benefits are many times greater than the costs incurred, and i believe that there is a need for closer and stronger cooperation between member states and non-profit organisations and for the creation of effective systems to facilitate cooperation between all volunteer organisations at home and abroad. the main problem that continues to hold back and limit volunteering activities is the taxes imposed on donors and the lack of vat exemptions on purchases that are intended to achieve the organization's objectives. i think these problems should be resolved as soon as possible.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 april 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs anneli jäätteenmäki, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the draft decision of the european parliament amending decision 94/262/ecsc, ec, euratom of 9 march 1994 on the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the ombudsman's duties (2006/2223 (ini)) (a6-0076/2008).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for this discussion and their remarks. many members have mentioned that this is an issue of competencies and also of confidentiality. those two issues are linked, and i am sure that these reforms will remove the ambiguities that institutions might, on occasion, have used to hide behind. the reforms will modernise and open up procedures and ensure greater clarity and transparency, which is necessary in these times and in order to meet citizens’ expectations. i would like to take this opportunity to thank ms jäätteenmäki once again for working in an open and constructive way with us, and for informing us on her work. i would also like to thank the ombudsman himself, because i have had the opportunity to follow his work, and am aware of the level of correctness, seriousness and commitment with which he carries out his tasks. it has really impressed me, and i have great confidence in him. by this initiative we are also helping the ombudsman align his statute with what we would expect from the ombudsman in his examination of cases of maladministration within our institutions.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 april 2008.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the sinking of the new flame freighter and the pollution of the gulf of algeciras.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i did not want to take a position. i simply geographically located the shipwreck of algeciras, gibraltar. don't get me wrong, i didn't want to settle a dispute that i'm incapable of settling.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 24 april 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - mr president! - what are you doing? in view of this year's discharge procedure, the commission's progress towards a more efficient use of union funds, in particular in the area of the common agricultural policy, should be welcomed. the initiative taken by some member states to draw up and publish national declarations as a new element in the management of community funds should also be supported, and the other member states should complete this formality as soon as possible. it is also important to require the commission to clarify all cases of infringements of public procurement procedures identified in the court of auditors' annual report and to implement a policy of suspension of payments following the detection of serious deficiencies in the system. as an opinion-giver on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i would like to highlight the continuing lack of gender budgeting and once again call for the inclusion of this aspect in the budgeting and financing of community programmes. information on gender equality actions supported by the social fund should be included in the reports on budget implementation in the coming years. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! mr jørgensen's report rightly highlights - following the court of auditors' opinion - the problems of financing the common agricultural policy, namely that some of its beneficiaries have nothing to do with agriculture. golf clubs, cricket clubs, equestrian clubs, amusement parks can be developed, but not with the money for the common agricultural policy. this afternoon we are debating in this house the food crisis and the rise in food prices, and this is one of the causes of the crisis, that the eu funds which should be used to support agriculture are supporting entirely different businesses which can do just fine without it. i therefore fully support the conclusions in paragraphs 99 and 100 of mr jørgensen's report that such changes in the financing of the cap are needed so that aid is directed only to genuine farmers - those who use the land for agricultural purposes - and that such changes should be introduced as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. although the court of auditors found that, overall, the financial statements of the european communities presented a fair view of the financial situation at the end of december 2006 and that it found no flagrant irregularities with regard to own resources and expenditure, it did find many errors both in the amounts recorded in the accounting systems and in the reports submitted by the member states. the fact that certain types of irregularities are repeated every year despite the critical remarks of the court of auditors and the european parliament is of particular concern. the continuing increase in outstanding budgetary commitments, particularly for the old member states, is also a cause for concern. thirdly, against this background, i am pleased to note the overall improvement in cap spending, achieved mainly through the use of the ajax system, which significantly reduces the risk of irregular expenditure.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to join those who are voting in favour of the discharge procedure for 2006. well, both the commission and the commissioners have shown a high and growing degree of cooperation. the court of auditors has a lot to be thanked for. the court has simply done its job well. we assessed the achievement of the objective in the union together with the overall management of the resources. it's also a very positive sign. i would like to emphasize very clearly that the whole parliament is de facto involved in the discharge procedure by giving its opinion on the proposals, through the various committees with substantive powers. i would like to thank president bösch for his hard work and patience and the rapporteurs jørgensen, ruiz and stubb. it is extremely difficult to avoid irregularities, but it is even more important to detect and prevent them. we have fulfilled that function.
mr president, i have a small proposal for you and for all the presidents who are chairing the votes. we have a lot of rollcall votes and it seems to me that the rules do not require the president to read the figures. everyone can read on the screen. just say "approved" or "rejected". if you can accept it, we'll buy time.
mr. chairman, please! new forms of crime and specialised transnational criminal groups pose a major challenge to the law enforcement authorities of the member states. effective prosecution of perpetrators and the fight against the most serious forms of lawbreaking are impossible without the creation of appropriate tools for the police to enforce the law. in a complex issue such as cross-border crime, rapid exchange of information between national services is essential to identify perpetrators and coordinate action. dna databases and digital fingerprint records are very important tools in the fight against crime. they allow the perpetrator to be identified regardless of the place of the crime. the dührkop report, which aims to strengthen law enforcement cooperation in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, is a valid initiative that reinforces the efforts to make us citizens safer that were initiated in 2005 by the prüm treaty.
mr. chairman, please! the role of the ombudsman is growing, particularly in the context of the solutions and challenges of the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. we want to build a europe for citizens, a europe closer to its citizens, a europe that is a model of respect for rights and respect for people, and therefore the procedures for contact and cooperation between citizens and the ombudsman should be facilitated. the time taken for the ombudsman to deal with cases should be kept to the minimum necessary. i would also like to draw attention to the rules on the cooperation of the national ombudsmen with the european ombudsman on the basis of subsidiarity. the division of roles and tasks will improve the efficiency of the two institutions.
mr. chairman, please! human life and health are of the highest value to those responsible for health in the member states. any steps to protect them should be subject to the specific approval of the european parliament. transplantation is one of the fastest growing fields of medicine. thousands of people are given a chance to recover, a second life. the number of transplants performed in the european union relative to the number of people waiting for a transplant is still insufficient, and many patients waiting for a transplant die before the procedure because of the lack of organs. action to increase the number of transplants performed is particularly important. one key method is to promote transplantation in the community and encourage potential donors to consent to the removal of their organs after death. it is also important to establish and monitor a comprehensive system of transplant controls to effectively combat the dangerous practice of organ trafficking, which is not limited to poor regions of the world. i believe that the adamou report is an important signal to member states to highlight the seriousness of the problem.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the report because it is an extremely important, albeit difficult, issue. the declaration of a will to donate your organs for transplantation after death is a gift of life, it's saving the lives of others, it's a unique value for humanity. it should be stressed that there is a link between organ shortages and illicit trafficking. the shortage of organs sometimes leads people to break the law and acquire them illegally to save lives. it's not just a legal problem, it's an ethical one. the high standards of quality and safety in the donation, collection, testing, preservation and transport of organs are not up for debate, because they are the foundation of successful transplantation. finally, we must remember that an effective information policy at union level is needed to raise the awareness of our citizens on this subject. this should be a key challenge for member states. finally, the problem we are discussing today requires appropriate discussion, further research, but also moral and ethical considerations.
mr. chairman, please! organ donation and transplantation is one of the fundamental issues that requires consideration and agreement within the european union and beyond. on the one hand, we have tens of thousands of people waiting for transplants. on the other hand, there is a serious medical, legal, and ethical problem. we all agree that we need to develop an effective transplant system. the transplant system must not become an economic category and lead to the treatment of organs as a commodity in the internal market. otherwise, criminal groups will develop which will exploit poverty and thus deepen the exploitation of human beings, especially in regions affected by mass unemployment, misery and hunger.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the report on crossborder cooperation, the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, because it is a very important issue that has existed since the founding of the state. criminals operating in border areas have so far exploited the reluctance of states to share confidential information, including personal information, and the right to privacy. in addition to organized and individual crime, another major problem has recently emerged, namely, international terrorism. now, within the european union, with the principle of subsidiarity and advanced and secure telecommunications technology, we can finally begin to effectively fight crime and prevent acts of terrorism. by sharing information such as dna profiles, fingerprint data, national vehicle registration data and through wider police and judicial cooperation, we can make criminals and terrorists feel unsafe in any of the member states of the european union, and beyond. i believe that this is one of the priorities which the union should address without delay.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr adamou adams on organ donation and transplantation, as i believe that organ transplantation is a major step forward in the service of science to man. many people have had their lives saved by organ transplants and have enjoyed a better quality of life. we need to raise awareness in the community and therefore increase the number of selfless donors. i believe that an essential element in the fight against organ shortages is the establishment of an effective system for identifying persons who could be organ donors after death, subject to compliance with all the consent requirements in force in the member states. public awareness and opinion play a huge role, and continuing education should be an important factor.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? volunteering makes an invaluable contribution to building a civil society and full democracy by engaging citizens in action at local and regional level. the possibility of developing such activities is particularly important in countries where active civil society faces persecution from the ruling elites. i supported the marian harkin report because i agree that the european commission should promote crossborder volunteering projects, especially towards our closest neighbour belarus. for belarusians in particular, it will be a concrete expression of support for their efforts to fight the lukashenka regime.
in writing. - a democratic system cannot function effectively without civil society. any initiative that promotes social cohesion and participatory democracy is welcomed with great enthusiasm, and i have no doubt that volunteering is one such example. i also realize that being involved and working for others helps to build positive attitudes. volunteering also makes an invaluable contribution to promoting intercultural dialogue, social integration, rebuilding social trust and reintegrating people who have been excluded from society. i would also like to draw your attention to the economic aspect of volunteering, which i think is very important. volunteering is an excellent opportunity to acquire new skills and qualifications, thereby increasing the chances on the labour market and facilitating a smooth transition from learning to working life, which is invaluable for young people in particular. in addition, as the author of the report notes, volunteering has a clear contribution to the generation of gross domestic product, which should not be overlooked. i hope that the proposals in the report will encourage the european commission and the member states to develop further ways of promoting and institutionally strengthening volunteering.
in writing. − on 22 april 2008, a serious discussion took place in connection with the vote on discharge for 2006. despite a number of critical suggestions concerning the evaluation of the implementation of the 2006 budget, a positive request for discharge was submitted to parliament. i would like to draw attention to a few important issues. first, the eu bureaucracy is too extensive, so there is a need for a proper review in the agencies and similar institutions around the directorates-general within the commission. secondly, the procedures and the whole system of public procurement should be simplified to facilitate the use of union funds. third, beneficiaries expect more smaller projects and easier access for the average citizen. fourthly, progress in the use of union funds in the area of the common agricultural policy is noteworthy. at the same time, the reasons for the lower level of expenditure of the erdf and esf cohesion funds in the new member states should be examined. fifth, some member states have introduced national audit declarations on the management of eu funds. this form of financial management in the union should be extended to other community countries. finally, it is worth noting that 2006 is the last year of the berlin agenda (financial perspectives 2000-06), and should therefore be a budget year characterised by a good use of european union funds.
in writing. - the rapporteur, josé javier pomés ruiz, has written a good report. i am pleased that the president of parliament has accepted the principle of political dialogue in the context of the discharge procedure. i also welcome the offer made by the secretary-general to hold regular meetings with the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of parliament's budget, outside the annual discharge procedure.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the sharp rise in food prices since the beginning of the year has raised global awareness of the global food challenge. in a few hours a meeting of the main actors in the field of food aid is to begin in london. an international conference on the green revolution in africa will be held in early may. all political actors, operators and specialists in the sector are now involved. for several years now, the world has been facing a steady increase in food prices. since 2000, the dollar price of wheat has tripled, that of rice and maize has doubled, and the beginning of 2008 corresponds to a further increase of 20%, which is reflected in our industrialized countries by concerns about purchasing power and is obviously reflected in developing countries by the risk of famine for entire populations. when you live on less than a dollar a day and spend most of your income on food, such increases are obviously simply unbearable. this is the root cause of the hunger riots that have occurred in recent weeks around the world in haiti, mexico, egypt, morocco, cameroon, senegal, côte d'ivoire, guinea, mauritania, ethiopia, uzbekistan, yemen, the philippines, thailand, indonesia, and more. all analyses indicate that the era of cheap food on the international market is over. food prices will not return to their previous levels and their volatility may increase if action is not taken quickly. the current context of soaring food prices poses a serious threat of political, financial, economic and social destabilisation for many states around the world, and therefore a swift response is necessary. and this goes far beyond the mere capabilities of the european commission, or even the european union. the whole international community must be mobilized. our analysis of the possible solutions leads us to identify two main ways. firstly, the first way, to save lives and respond to the social crises created by the soaring prices and sometimes amplified by tense national political contexts, and then the other way, which is obviously in the medium and long term. i would stress the need for action on both fronts. the biggest mistake, of course, would be to give a structural problem, food security, a humanitarian response in the form of food aid. this would undoubtedly alleviate the guilty conscience of some in the short term, but it is clear that urgent food aid is not enough to solve a short-term problem. in the short term, therefore, it is obviously necessary, in addition to national responses to better control food prices, to meet the food needs of the most vulnerable populations in genuine humanitarian distress. that is why we must mobilise additional emergency humanitarian aid to increase echo's response capacity to provide urgent food aid. but we are not dealing with a classic food crisis. it is a crisis of purchasing power which affects above all the poorest who can no longer afford to buy food. our response must therefore also be based on other forms of food assistance, for example to counter the negative effects of child malnutrition and to support the purchasing power of the most vulnerable households. the rapid growth of local agricultural supply should also be encouraged, allowing farmers access to agricultural inputs, seeds and fertilisers. given the scale of the crisis and its likely persistence, it is absolutely crucial that the european union also commits to a medium-term approach to supporting social protection policies that are being implemented or to be implemented in the most exposed countries, in particular on the african continent. in the medium and long term, the only answer is to do everything possible to ensure that agricultural supplies are adequate. production must increase globally to keep pace with world demand, but this must not be the case only in the major exporting countries. the european union has already taken concrete steps in this direction. the milk quota was increased and customs duties on cereals were abolished. the african continent must play its part with our support and bring about a genuine green revolution that would enable it to reduce its overall dependence on the international market. african agriculture is currently the least productive in the world, but it has enormous potential for development, provided that policies in favour of small family farmers are implemented over time and that priority is given to investment, productivity growth and facilitation of access for farmers to national and regional markets. the commission, for its part, is already giving this approach a high priority. we were the first to emphasize the importance of agriculture in development policies, well ahead of other international actors. we have revised our own programmes in line with those of the african union, proposing to align european assistance in the field of agriculture and rural development with the african union's detailed programme for agricultural development in africa in a communication of june 2007. when the 10th european development fund was being programmed, we made sure that the rural development sector as a whole could benefit from a doubling of the amounts - 650 million euros from the 9th edf, 1,250 billion euros from the 10th edf - but it was not that simple, because you must know, and you know it, that it is up to the developing partners themselves to choose the areas of concentration. that's a big increase, a doubling in absolute numbers, but if you translate that into a percentage, it's not a percentage increase in the share of agriculture and rural development. there is a doubling of the money supply but the percentage in relation to the european development fund remains more or less the same. in this context, we are therefore pleased to note today the renewed general interest of the donor community in the agricultural sector, which has been largely neglected for the last 25 years. the commission as a whole, and i in particular, as the commissioner responsible for development and humanitarian aid, are well aware of the major political significance of the present crisis. i had the opportunity to talk to the un secretary-general about this at the last meeting of the africa mdg steering group in new york last month. i also spoke to the chairman of the african union commission, mr ping. it was in the wake of this meeting that i used the term 'humanitarian tsunami' because i felt it was necessary to create a shock of conscience so that political leaders would finally go beyond speeches and professions of faith. the causes of the crisis are many and complex, although care must be taken not to get lost in too many subtleties. there's a rise in demand, particularly in asia, because of the improvement in the living standards of many people who can afford to eat more and better. there is also the increase in oil prices which directly affects the cost of transport and fertilisers. add to this the supply-side problems caused by the consequences of climate change and we have, in part, the recipe for the current crisis. what is the commission doing? she's working on the long-term, i told you, it's crucial. but the results won't translate into the field for 24 months. increasing agricultural production is not just about opening the tap more, so we're also focusing on the short term and the urgency. last march, it was already decided to mobilise eur 160 million in food aid; it has just been decided to release an additional €57 million, which was budgeted for 2008 but will be made available much earlier in the year. 60 million will be raised in fresh money, either from a redeployment within heading 4 or from a request to you to mobilise the emergency reserve. finally, i would like to point out that the commission will continue to monitor this situation very closely and is prepared, on the basis of changing needs, to consider additional emissions if necessary.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, i want to apologize to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for being late. i was in a meeting with the conference of committee chairs and i thank you for arranging the debate so that i can now take the floor. the european union is following with great concern the rise in agricultural prices that we are facing not only in the european union but also elsewhere in the world. we are aware of the seriousness and scale of the potential consequences, particularly for the poorest countries in the world. where are the reasons? on the supply side, price increases are mainly due to crop failures, including the effects of climate change, and to reductions in stocks, especially cereals, and to increases in production costs. on the other hand, demand is being strengthened by the growth of the world population and also by the rapid development of some large countries such as china, india and brazil. in these countries, increased purchasing power and higher standards are changing dietary habits. increased demand for meat and dairy products has an indirect impact on the increase in feed grain prices. some, or many, also cite the growing market for biofuels and the associated demand for agricultural products for non-food purposes. this is why, in the council of the european union, we are working within the framework of the working groups set up specifically for this purpose to develop clear sustainability criteria that will allow the sustainable production of biofuels with the least possible impact on factors such as food prices. as the reasons for higher food prices, on both the demand and supply sides, are structural, we can expect that prices and their growth, including in the long term, will remain at higher levels than we have been accustomed to over the past decade. at the global level, the rise in food prices has a particularly negative impact on countries where agricultural products or food represent a significant share of imports. this issue is particularly acute in countries with lower and medium gross domestic product and less competitive structures in food production and trade. to ensure a basic food supply, agricultural production in poorer countries should be encouraged, among other things. wealthy countries should also be encouraged to devote financial resources to development aid to the poorest countries and to become more active in humanitarian organisations. the european union is trying to control food prices in a number of ways. recent reforms of the cap have been aimed at making european agriculture more sustainable and market-oriented. the european union has already adopted the abolition of the compulsory dust requirements for 2008, thus increasing the processing area for food production in the european union. the review of the common agricultural policy also proposed the permanent repeal of this obligation and the abolition of the premiums for energy crops. efforts to promote research to enable the production of second-generation biofuels are also important. these would use as raw materials by-products such as straw, shavings, waste in general. in addition, the european union is prepared to eliminate export incentives by 2013 in the context of the wto negotiations. the question of the instability of agricultural markets is certainly becoming one of the central challenges for agriculture and agricultural policy in the european union. the council of agriculture and fisheries of the european union had already discussed the issue of high prices at its april meeting, given the scale of the potential consequences. it is very likely that it will be discussed at future meetings of the council, and that the issue will be taken up by ministers in other council configurations. international organizations such as the food and agriculture organization (fao), the international fund for agricultural development, the world food programme, and other agencies are also actively working to keep food prices down. the slovenian presidency will participate in the international conference on food security and the challenges of climate change and bioenergy, which will take place in rome in early june under the auspices of the fao. in conclusion, the increase in food prices is a global problem and must be tackled with great deliberation and with intensive action in all the areas affected. our objective is to restore price stability to the markets. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr. chairman, please! until recently, the european union's main concern was overproduction of food, and our debates were mainly about how to produce less. the decoupling of subsidies from production, the elimination of export premiums, the maintenance of production quotas, all served to limit the potential of european agriculture. reality has verified that policy. the first signs of a food crisis have appeared sooner than expected. food is getting more expensive, we have less and less of our own, and imports are getting more and more expensive and less and less secure. this is largely the result of a policy that has been designed to encourage farmers to produce less. we need to radically change our policy approach to agriculture. we must recognise it as one of the pillars of european security. food security, alongside physical security and energy security, is a fundamental pillar of security, important both for nations and states and for each individual. let's stop playing with agriculture. let us see them as a pillar of our security and, in turn, support them to ensure that europe has food security and that food is available to all.
mr. chairman, please! by the middle of this century, the world's population will exceed 9 billion. as the population grows, so will the demand for food, which is already in short supply - not only in third countries but also in european countries. europe and the world are facing a major food crisis. the so-called common agricultural policy of the european union, based on orders, prohibitions, quotas and quotas, has made the food crisis a win-win situation for some countries and a loss-win situation for others. only a few countries in the european union will do well. unfortunately, the vast majority will suffer losses, including poland - until recently the third food power of the union, which in the past was able to feed twice as many people as it has. the lack of food goes hand in hand with her high cost of living. according to the world bank, over the past three years, the price of oil has risen 83 percent, and it's rising and it's going to continue to rise. the international monetary fund, the world bank, and many governments know that food shortages threaten the biological security of nations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. but that did not solve the problem. the short-sighted agricultural policy of the union continues to weed. processing plants are being closed, cropland is being reduced, agricultural land is being reforested, and many other activities are limiting food production. so who will provide us with healthy, cheap food in the future? american manufacturers, certainly, but not healthy, but genetically modified. so why are we waiting? we already know that the union's agricultural policy, if it is implemented in accordance with the expectations of certain interest groups, is a road to nowhere, or rather to the loss of biosecurity in the union and to a worsening of the situation worldwide. the cap must therefore not only be revised, but the existing treaties must also be renegotiated and a new approach must be taken for the future.
mr. chairman, please! the increase in the world's population and the increase in the quality of consumption in developed countries have led to a large jump in food prices. it was predictable. we shouldn't be surprised by that. this problem will only get worse as the population continues to grow and the people in developed countries look for good, genetically uncontaminated food, which will, of course, cost much more. instead of thinking about how to lower food prices in the union, expensive agriculture in the old countries is subsidized and only limited support is given to the much cheaper production of healthy food in the newly joined community countries, which of course limits the growth of production in these countries. europe has a great opportunity to offset the negative trade with countries like china and india, where the standard of living is rising and the population is growing by leaps and bounds. they'll need a lot more food.
mr. chairman, please! this is one of the most important debates here in parliament - political, economic debates - and you can see it from the composition of the people who spoke today. this is a debate not only about food growth, but also about starvation. the voices in the room today and the alarming analysis speak for themselves. the price of wheat has gone up 130% in the last year alone, soybeans 87%, rice 74%... these are the facts. we've been cutting prices for the last 30 years, but what's happened in the last year is beyond any alarming symptoms. the facts are these: there is a shortage of food in the world, there is hunger, there are 850 million people starving. there have been riots in a dozen countries, and the riots are going to get worse. there's massive deforestation in the rainforests and the amazon, which means there's a greater preference for biofuels than for reducing world hunger. in the next few years, there will be a shortage of 200 million tons of grain in the world. global inflation is rising, there is a persistent water shortage, and consumers in europe are spending 30-40% more on their wallets than they did a year ago. what is to be done? we must urgently reform the common agricultural policy, because there are millions of farmers in europe who are suffering from poverty, and we must convene an international conference as soon as possible to take decisions and draw conclusions from this debate and this problem.
mr. chairman, please! for a number of years now, in the european union and at the wto, we have been talking about trade liberalisation, which should be understood as trade facilitation, when in fact we are actually implementing a reduction in agricultural production. in europe and elsewhere, we have been systematically cutting back for a long time. the rise in world food prices is the result of rising production costs, rising energy costs, rising fuel costs, rising fertilizer costs, rising labor costs. but let's remember that a couple of months ago, the price of oil was 70 dollars a barrel, and it's a different thing to be able to make money on agricultural production, and it's a different thing to be able to make money on biofuels, when today the price of oil is 115 dollars a barrel. but it's not biofuels that are causing the crisis. only 2% of agricultural production goes to biofuels, so biofuels are only partly the cause. i see a lot of fear today, not to mention fear, even in this room, but rash, reckless action is not going to do any good. we need a stable agricultural policy, but we need to look for stability not only in agriculture but also in financial markets. the lack of monitoring of financial markets leads to speculation and dangerous situations, sometimes in the mortgage market, sometimes in the food market. stabilization of the financial markets.
the chairman of the council. - mr dillen said that in a case such as this one in the food market, we must not only alleviate the symptoms, but we must treat the disease. in order to do that, we need to make the right diagnosis. and i think that this discussion has been extremely useful and will also help the council in making the right diagnosis and finding answers and cures. so what are these causes that have led to the state of the world food market and to the increases, the dramatic increases in food prices? it's mostly about the increased demand. it was mentioned that the world population had increased. it was also mentioned that a considerable part of this population is better off because of a better standard. and i don't think anyone has the right to ask them to go back to their previous poorer dietary patterns. so what is the answer to the increased demand? increased bid. i should mention here that the council has already taken certain measures. i mentioned in my opening speech, the temporary suspension of the powder obligation. it has enabled european farmers to use an additional 10% of their agricultural land for production. the importance of this is also shown by the comparison with what mr daul said, namely the percentage of europe currently devoted to biofuels. i'll talk about that later. we also increased the milk quota by 2%. these are just some of the measures already taken by the council to increase supply. of course, in addition to increasing supply in the european union itself, action is also needed to increase food production in other parts of the world, especially in developing countries. the second reason, the second of the reasons, is also the higher cost of production, partly due to higher energy prices. the answer lies in more intensive research, rationalisation, new technologies and innovation in agricultural production. climate change is certainly one of the reasons. a prolonged drought in one of the world's largest producers of grain and rice has curtailed that country's crops and its contribution to world supply. the european union is looking for answers here, and it is looking for them in the direction indicated by the climate and energy package that is being negotiated and for which the presidency has set itself the firm objective of moving towards an agreement by the end of this year. a word about biofuels. there is certainly a link, but it is not such that it can be argued that this is one of the main reasons for the situation on the food market. nevertheless, the council is also taking this aspect very seriously. the ad hoc working group, which was recently set up on the initiative of the slovenian presidency, has therefore been given the main task of developing sustainability criteria for biofuel production. these are criteria to ensure that biofuel production does not supplant food production, that it takes into account the social aspects and impacts of biofuel production and that it ensures the conservation of biodiversity. so that's just a few words about the council's attitude, the council's approach to this serious problem. let me add something else. the worst combination is high food prices and poverty. it's a combination that's deadly, it's a combination that's leading to unrest in many developing countries, it's a combination that's leading to hunger. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's food aid policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's food aid policy. we see the millennium development goals as one of the important topics for the next european council. europe's progress towards these objectives has stalled somewhat, we want to give the european union a new impetus in achieving these objectives and, as i said, we see this as one of the important topics for the june european council. thank you again for this discussion. i repeat, i am confident that it will enable the council to make the right diagnosis and find the right cure.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given the short time i have, i should like to give a very brief answer. but i'm gonna pin some things down. i can of course share many of the thoughts and considerations that have been put forward, not all, however, and so i will try to focus on a number of elements which i think are important to clarify. first of all, i naturally agree, it is very enlightening and obvious, that the answers cannot be implemented effectively by the european union alone. it is clear that the answers must be provided by all the major players in the world and i believe that this mobilization is underway. i would like to say this: i have heard that this is very good for democracy and for the strength of the contradictory debate, but i have also heard ideological positions, sometimes extremely radical in a specific case, which are rather sketchy. but i respect that, i have absolutely no prior knowledge of the subject, but if there is one element that, in my view, will not bring a solution to the food crisis, it is actually the narrow or blocked ideological rhetoric; i don't think it will provide an answer, because the answer is multifaceted, the answer is "multifaceted". there are a whole series of responses to a whole series of causes, as the minister said, there is not a single cause. if you talk about biofuels, for example, i would say that it is still important to remember that the european commission has always stressed the importance of ensuring that the investments associated with the development of biofuels translate into tangible effects on poverty reduction, particularly in rural areas. we never advocated or said to make biofuel everywhere. we can make biofuel where there is obviously a potential overproduction. in countries where there is no self-sufficiency, it is of course extremely dangerous and absolutely not recommended to make biofuel. so it's not as summary as that, the answers. i would like to say something else too; i don't understand it, deep down. i hear from members of the european parliament who, i think, still carry some of the efficiency, the honour, the values of europe, and a certain pride in being european. i can hear them all the time, whining and complaining. this is all europe's fault. no, i don't agree with that. someone said that europe does not like or does not help developing countries. europe today accounts for 56% of world aid. europe today, for example, when it helps with food, it finances products in local markets and does not bring its agricultural surpluses to the developing countries! it must also be said that we must stop talking nonsense about europe's political responsibility! i am quite proud of what europe has done in the last 50 years, particularly in relation to the developing countries, and if no one else says it, it seems to me that i should say it. biofuels, i've already worked that out. the wto, it is obvious that the wto must be reformed, that with the wto we must go further. but if there were no wto, what would the world be like? what would poverty be like in the world? the wto is the first world organization to try to put some ethical order into trade! i want to remind you because it's a little too easy to throw the baby out with the bath water. that is an ideological a priori that i want to put to an end. you have to be a little reasonable, though. the gmos. i must of course speak on a personal level because it is very, very unpopular to engage unilaterally in this matter. i am not one of those who think that this question is already empty. and to say, in this way, a priori, that gmos are bad, is an ideological a priori. it's a form of scientism, a form of improvised scientism. i think that there is nothing wrong with continuing to do research to try to make it easier for people to be self-sufficient in food, especially in poor countries. it's intellectually rational, and to do the opposite is not intellectually rational and it's not open-minded. i think it's important to say that, too. i will not go back, mr hutchinson, because i have so much admiration and respect for you, i will not go back to your perennial epa refrain. i want to tell you, if i am in favour of epas, economic partnership agreements to create regional markets, it is precisely because i believe that in particular in addressing the issue of food security, economic partnership agreements are more than likely part of the answer, because until you have economically integrated regional markets, you will not give the opportunity to developing countries to enjoy the benefits of globalisation. that is my answer, we do not agree, we will never agree, in my opinion, but i think it is important that i remind you of my position. i've heard of capitalist barbarism here. i'm not sure what that is. capitalism, to me, is an economic mechanism, it's an economic machine that, until proven otherwise, has shown its positive effects more than any other system. of course, as i've said many times, i'm not in love with capitalism. capitalism is not an object of my affection, it is simply a means. in fact, i often like to make a distinction between capitalism and liberalism. of course, my socialist friends are happy to mix it up. it's not quite the same, my dear friends. i still have to say it. but either, capitalism is a means, it is nothing else and i agree that the market economy and capitalism can never be virtuous if there is no public power to establish rules, enforce them and to redistribute properly and equitably the wealth created. but let us not, please, be ideologically simplistic, because there is no answer to this crisis. i think it's time to say it. that is basically what i wanted to say on this subject. there's more to the story. i have heard from both sides relevant, important elements. the minister said that we must continue to think about this, but for the time being i am faced with an urgent matter, namely that we must help the wfp to have the means to avoid immediate food disasters, and the second urgent matter, in the medium term, is to give massive aid to developing countries which are not self-sufficient, to produce more. i would like to say, however, that when i hear all these people here who want to regulate, establish, i wonder whether we should in fact tighten up the market economy. i must remind you, however, that our agriculture is one of the few economic sectors which has been subject to a great deal of regulation and, i would even say, to use a particular term of improvised leadership. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so we can ask ourselves whether, as was said earlier, the effects of this policy in the agricultural world were not entirely convincing, not because there was too much improvised leadership in relation to the rules of globalisation. i'm not a globalist, i'm just saying that it's here, globalization, you can't force globalization. so, that we can establish rules, through the wto, through the united nations, through a whole series of international bodies, yes, but to say that we could regulate all this overnight and settle the issue of all the revelations of a system by regulations that you do not have the power to establish, i do not know very well how we can do it. i too have a duty to be pragmatic. so we're going to put the package in place, and we've already put the package in place to increase production in developing countries. it seems to me the only real solution to fight this phenomenon that i wanted to denounce, it's true. i wanted to really shock people's consciences because if nothing is done, yes, there will be a catastrophic humanitarian food tsunami with conflicts, with situations that are really unmanageable. i thank you for this debate, and i think we shall come back to it. it was extremely fruitful, it was extremely interesting. the point i am making is that i will try to take from both sides the best arguments i have heard to defend a cause which is, after all, a common cause. (applause) i would like to thank
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place during the monthly partsession in strasbourg in may 2008. written declarations (article 142) in writing. my country, which i represent here in the european parliament, poland, could be a powerful producer of agricultural products, and much healthier than the food currently produced in the west. as a result of the mistakes made by our negotiators in the accession negotiations, we were forced by the limits imposed on us to significantly reduce polish agricultural production. this policy of artificially restricting food production is now having drastic consequences throughout europe. the pensioners are hit hardest by the rising food prices as well as the galloping energy increases. the poverty line in europe is growing alarmingly and includes more and more people, especially large families, who are now struggling to survive from month to month. in the new member states, including poland, there is a lot of land that has not been developed before. using them, industry would start producing, for example, biofuels, which have a significant impact on the current increase in food prices. however, this requires a radical change of approach by european commission officials and immediate steps to tap the production potential of the new member states.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs barsi-pataky on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the further implementation of the european satellite radio navigation programmes (egnos and galileo) (com (2007) 0535 - c6-0345/2007 - 2004/0156 (cod)) (a6-0144/2008).
the council representative, minister radovan žerjav, informed us that he had to leave before 6 p.m. and therefore asked for a vote. i'm not sure what kind of speech this is going to be, because normally the commissioner and the council have the privilege of summing up the discussion, and this discussion is not over yet. however, i am obliged to give the council's representative a voice, which i hereby do.
mr. chairman, please! the galileo programme is finally ready. it is a strategic tool for the future of the european union because of its contribution to such important aspects of integration as research and innovation, european space policy, and european foreign and security policy. it is a powerful tool that will enable the union to play an important role in the international arena. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. the commission is to be responsible only for the management of the project, and any actions, tasks undertaken by gsa and esa are to be carried out outside its competence. parliament also made it very clear that it would not accept any future delays, which would be facilitated by the establishment of the galileo interinstitutional panel. in considering whether to support the above parliamentary proposal, it should be borne in mind that the establishment of radio satellite navigation infrastructure is beyond the financial and technical capabilities of the member states and is therefore a community action.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the text you are about to vote on will of course enable the european union to meet the challenge of developing one of the major technologies of our century. i would like to thank, mr president, in particular, all those in parliament who have contributed to this success. my first word will be to mrs barsi-pataky, who, in the committee chaired by mrs niebler - and i thank mrs niebler who played a decisive role in the conclusion of the trilogue - i would like to say thank you, mrs barsi-pataky, because you have never ceased to believe in the possibility of achieving galileo while being - and you were right - demanding. i am particularly grateful to the committee on budgets and also to mr böge, who is not here, but mr skynas was the rapporteur, because we needed parliament's support at the time to find the source of the funding. mrs jensen, thank you also for being a strong supporter of galileo on the committee on transport. so, as mrs niebler said, it is a good day for europe. mr president, i cannot answer all the speakers. i listened to them very carefully, and i took notes. what i would like to say is that we must now call on our small and mediumsized enterprises in all the member states to really do all the preparatory work from now on to prepare the galileo applications. i shall have the opportunity to come back to you to discuss all these applications, which are not only of interest to transport but above all to the protection of people, and in every respect galileo will be much more efficient than the present gps. i would also like to confirm to parliament my willingness to give life to this interinstitutional committee, which is also a means of uniting our institutions around the project. so i would now like to say a few words about the work that lies ahead. with the vote of the european parliament we now have a budget, a legal basis, clear governance and a procurement plan, the procurement plan being not the easiest thing to do, both to distribute the work usefully among all the large space companies in our member states but, at the same time, to provide for a subcontracting which many of you have rightly called for. our smes must also be able to participate in construction; that's why in the procurement plan, we've set aside 40% for subcontracting. the commission will sign an agreement with the european space agency. we hope that this will be done before the summer and that we can launch the calls for tenders for the six lots that have been identified. and so we would like to be able to sign the contracts at the end of the year, so that the satellites and the satellite array can be built as soon as possible at the beginning of next year. the remaining 26 satellites will take two to three years to build. then it will take a year or two for the launch. so galileo's road map must be followed very carefully. i must say that engineers and technicians do not take a day off. i am pleased to announce - as mr savary said earlier - that the second galileo satellite, giove-b, will be launched by a soyuz rocket from the baikonur cosmodrome in kazakhstan on sunday, 27 april 2008, at 0:15 local time. giove-b is already in baikonur, where he's undergoing the final tests before d-day. the satellite is expected to be in full orbit some seven hours after launch, and will be monitored live from the fucino centre in italy. we all have to hope that giove-b will be as successful as giove-a, especially since giove-b has all the technologies in place. so, mr remek, i would like to welcome your presence in this house, since you know what is happening in space. so i thanked parliament very much, but it is not a formal thank you, believe me. i really feel that if this european project comes to fruition, parliament will of course have made a very effective contribution to it. so thank you very much, and together we will make galileo a success.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 april 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. as a witness and participant in the long process of agreeing the financial basis for the galileo programme, i am following with interest the steps taken by the european union to implement the programme. the funding, which is a far cry from the original intention, increases our shared responsibility for the success of the programme. the public-private partnership has failed. we are responsible for the rational use of european taxpayers' money, without sharing the risk with the private sector. that's why the program management system is so important. it is appropriate to state clearly in the draft report that the european community is the sole owner of all tangible and intangible assets generated by egnos and galileo. unfortunately, things are moving at a slow pace eleven years have passed since the european commission presented its first communication on a european satellite navigation system. the delays have certainly multiplied the costs of this programme and increased the risk to its competitiveness in the face of other initiatives emerging on a global scale. the world is not standing still! the purely community and public nature of the programme justifies the claim of the european parliament, given its democratic mandate, to strengthen its control and operational influence in the preparatory and implementation phases of galileo.
mr. chairman, please! the posting of workers directive is one of the foundations on which the practical implementation of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the community, the european freedom, which has accompanied the treaties and the european community from the beginning, is based. article 49 of the treaty is one of the most explicit provisions governing the internal affairs of the european union and provides unequivocally that restrictions on the freedom to provide services within the community are prohibited in respect of nationals of member states who have their establishment in a community state other than the state of the recipient of the service. it is therefore surprising that persistent practices in many member states are aimed at administratively restricting this freedom guaranteed by the treaty. since my election to this parliament, i have received complaints from businessmen, mainly from the new member states that joined the union after 2004, about the activities of regional and local administrations which arbitrarily impose on these businessmen additional requirements that are not justified in any of the union's legal acts. i have raised this issue many times in this chamber, calling on the european commission to take a clear stand on the side of eu law and thus on the side of freedom to provide services. i am pleased that my efforts have been so clearly confirmed by the case law of the european court of justice, which we are discussing today. i am convinced that, in the light of the recent judgments of the court, we will succeed - parliament together with the european commission - in developing a formula for the organisation of the internal market in services which, while safeguarding the fundamental rights of workers, will not impose on eu entrepreneurs additional burdens which will restrict their activities and which are, by definition, contrary to european law. the free market in services and the mobility of workers must be promoted, not opposed. these are the challenges of the 21st century.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the aim of the posting of workers directive is to ensure freedom to provide services while safeguarding workers' rights. i think that this directive has served the european union well and the criticism i hear here today is largely unjustified. i would point out that in the rüffert case under discussion, the breach of social standards and the setting of a wage at the scandalously low level of 46% was not the result of any shortcomings in the posting of workers directive, but rather of the failure to implement part of the relevant legislation in lower saxony in the manner provided for by the posting of workers directive. so we are dealing with the problem of the implementation of the law in germany, not with the shortcomings of the directive on the posting of workers. the same applies to laval, whereas in sweden we have a situation where the minimum wage is not fixed either by law or by collective agreement in the way that the directive on the posting of workers provides. i therefore believe that the solution to this situation is first and foremost to bring national legislation into line with the current directive, although i agree that there are many areas where the directive can still be improved and i support the commission's position on these issues. i would also like to refer to the concept of social dumping, which has been mentioned many times here. well, i would point out that the concept of social dumping does not exist in either international law or economic theory. it's a purely propaganda term. there is no dumping when posted workers polish in germany or latvian in sweden receive higher wages than in their home country. nor can we speak of social dumping when there are no social and wage standards in europe for all countries, and this is because the level of development of our member states is different, and in addition there are different policies in individual countries.
mr. chairman, please! there were many comments and very critical assessments, judgments and rulings of the european court of justice. i would call for calm. the european court of justice's judgments are not political in nature, they are based on a careful analysis of the facts and the laws of the member states. that's the role of this body, let's respect it. let's just take this one step at a time. let's not treat these judgments badly when they don't work for us and well when we like them. this is justice à la carte, and we should not be encouraged by it, and we should not accept it. the second point i would like to make is that we must not allow any confrontation between workers in the old and new member states. it would be the worst thing that could happen if we confronted trade unionists from the old member states with trade unionists from the new member states. that is not what justice is supposed to be about in the european union. i'm warning you against that.
mr. chairman, please! the posting of workers is inextricably linked to the freedom to provide services. the court of justice has upheld this principle of the common market, which i consider to be the most important. however, i would like to express my disappointment that there are still provisions on the community market which are incompatible with the directive on the posting of workers. let us not forget that the directive is intended to serve both workers and service providers. it is also unacceptable that the key provisions of the directive are interpreted differently in different member states. workers are not aware of their rights and member states do not monitor whether its provisions are being applied properly. the proper implementation and enforcement of the rules is, after all, the key to the smooth functioning of the internal market. therefore, all measures, whether in the form of administrative cooperation or guidance on the proper application of the directive, are necessary. however, i hope that such initiatives will result in better interpretation of the rules and not in more accusations of non-existent social dumping.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate ms gomes on this serious, politically very important report. china is a global player in the contemporary world, and we would like to see china as a real partner of the european union in the process of globalisation. china should play an important role in the new world order and we praise the peaceful role played by china in africa. at the same time, china must take her responsibilities in the area of human rights and development. in particular, china should use its influence to curb the nastiest of its friends, including the government of sudan. fortunately, china has ceased to resist the deployment of united nations peacekeepers in darfur and is sending some of its own military engineers to join the force. on the negative side, china has still sent arms to dictatorial regimes in africa. just this week, zambia, mozambique, south africa and tanzania blocked attempts by a chinese vessel to deliver a massive shipment of ammunition, mortars and other lethal armaments to president mugabe in zimbabwe. these weapons could play an anti-democratic, even deadly role, in the hands of the mugabe regime. in this report, the european parliament calls on china to be on the side of african societies, democracy and human rights in africa.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the report by any gomes covers all the key aspects of china's presence in africa. there is only one ambiguity: china's presence in africa is not a matter of development policy, much less aid. development policy is only an instrument to achieve china's two general strategic objectives. the first is to secure the supply of raw materials through a rather brutal raw materials diplomacy. it's china's growing demand for natural resources and energy that makes sudan, angola and sub-saharan africa so important. the second, but not least important, goal of the chinese government is to consolidate an authoritarian pole in the world as a counterweight to the liberal-democratic patterns of the west. hence the violation of even the un arms embargo against darfur, liberia or congo. hence beijing's political ties with sudan, chad, zimbabwe and somalia. the exclusion of countries that recognise taiwan from aid cooperation is another manifestation of the primacy of a particular strategy over development policy. we must admit today that europe is powerless in this situation. of course we can follow the commissioner's calls and throw away the oecd's rules on corruption, public finances, then we can also put other international agreements in the same place. in the end, we can throw away the un charter, but then we will no longer know what our role is in world politics, what makes us different from other players in world politics.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the report by mrs gomes is a virtually detailed lecture on the very complex trilateral relationship between african countries and china, with particular reference to the interests of the european union. he also emphasizes the role that other organizations, such as the world bank, play in africa's development. there is no doubt that china's growing role in the development of african countries must be viewed positively despite reservations about the priority of action. we have to ask ourselves, is commercial investment more important than humanitarian aid? for poor african countries, any aid is as important as water, disease control, education, infrastructure and peace. the conclusion is that we should work together to develop the best possible methods of balanced, but accelerated and sustainable development.
commissioner, after all you have said, a little reflection on the presence of the chinese in africa. i'll go with the polish for that. madam president, the commissioner! at the beginning of the last century, the chinese came as exotic servants from english and french houses. in the late fifties, sixties we had chinese products: more and different products from schools, and now chinese have emerged as a big economic and political actor. tak jak pan mówi, że każdy ma prawo działać, na scenie gospodarczej i politycznej i nikt im nie zabroni, ale chińczycy skomasowali wysiłki i z pewnym planem dążą do swoich celów, to what goals do you strive? tak jak pan says, że każdy ma prawo działać, na scenie gospodarczej i politycznej i nikt im nie zabroni, na scenie gospodarczej i politycznej i nikt im nie zabroni, ale chińczycy skomasowali wysiłki i z pewnym planem dążą do swoich celów, to what goals do you strive? they are not burdened by any mark, any label of colonialism and they will exploit the natural resources of africa. i said, "exploit". the european union has a long-standing commitment to the development of a democratic and democratic society. before this africa must be saved. the european union is a party to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on european union. from the humanist perspective, as well as from the winning sentiment, we should make a constructive contribution to africa in every aspect. we'll have to, but the chinese will be pissed. in parallel with this, the union should also work to win the sympathy of africa and at the same time show its readiness for the common development of this continent, which is so close to us. mr. commissioner, before we go, we have a huge challenge.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. despite china's trade with african countries being so strong, and even though china has recently become a net donor to africa, it is still europe, not china, that is the destination of choice for african migrants, despite our colonial past. this is the best indication of the preference of africans for our values, such as respect for human rights and concern for sustainable development to guarantee a better future. this gives the european union a moral right, but also an obligation, to look at china's policy towards africa, because, as the rapporteur rightly points out, china can greatly accelerate the process of sustainable development in africa, but it can also harm it. in this context, the idea of trilateral talks between the european union, the african union member states and china deserves particular support.
madam president! china's interest in african oil, precious metals and gas is beginning to resemble the former colonial policies of some european powers. china is pretending to be a good friend and business partner of africa, telling them that they want to help them out of poverty, out of backwardness, that they will support economic development. let's hope their intentions are sincere, but in business as in politics, the ends usually justify the means. the chinese are building bridges, roads, stadiums, hospitals, supplying africa with weapons, making loans, and thus gaining a new market, while at the same time creating a state that cares about the future of africa. the union should be much more involved in africa's development. we cannot stand by and watch this new chinese dominance.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. china has become the world's fastest growing economy over the past dozen years, with annual gdp growth of over 10 percent. this has made it the fourth largest economy in the world with the largest foreign exchange reserves in the world. such rapid growth in economic potential is making china the world's leading trading partner. in the last 15 years, china's trade with africa has increased twentyfold. the european union does not seem to be able to counteract this expansion. china should therefore be encouraged to take into account social and environmental aspects of its economic engagement in africa, as well as respect for democratic standards. the european union should emulate china's expansion in africa. after all, we are still the largest donor to african countries. the aim must therefore be to combine aid to these countries with a substantial increase in trade with africa.
in writing. the report by ms gomes is undoubtedly a detailed and interesting analysis of the prc's presence in africa. but i cannot help feeling that somewhere between trade, investment, infrastructure, energy and other important issues, we have missed a crucial point in this report from the point of view of both the institution we represent - the european parliament - and the committee on development, which is responsible for this report. the protection of human rights worldwide is a top priority for the european parliament, according to the european parliament's main website. if we really believe in this slogan, we cannot limit ourselves to a chapter on government and human rights: a summary of china's involvement in darfur, in the most positive context possible, when we know that the situation in the region has not improved at all, a one-sentence mention of the violation of the un arms embargo on the sale of weapons in africa by the prc, recall a permanent member of the un security council, or a brief comment on china's cooperation with governments responsible for human rights violations, such as zimbabwe. "the eu should not underestimate the power of discreet and public criticism of china", ms gomes wrote in the explanatory memorandum to her report. it's a shame that we lost that opportunity with this report. thank you for your attention.
in writing. while an emerging power like china has a huge impact on the process of sustainable development in africa, it should be remembered that it is african states that are responsible for the overall impact of the presence of foreigners and foreign organisations or governments on their territory. both the eu and china are committed to security, peace and sustainable development in africa, but the eu is africa's largest donor and main trading partner at the moment. although china has a positive track record, having lifted 400 million of its citizens out of extreme poverty over the past 25 years, it is also a country with huge social and economic inequalities, as well as alarming environmental degradation, restrictions on basic freedoms and poor labour standards. the exploitation of african natural resources should be monitored, as it can lead to their total depletion, the spread of corruption, the deepening of social inequalities, the fomenting of conflicts, which will have a negative impact on the development of african countries. it's the trade and consumption of western countries that is driving china's demand for africa's natural resources, which is driving the growth of carbon emissions in developing countries. equally important is the fact that wto membership entails a number of obligations which china does not sufficiently fulfil. the eu should address justice on trade, climate and other issues as part of its trilateral cooperation with china and africa.
in writing. – napoleon told us that we should let china sleep, for when she wakes, she will shake the world. bad news: china has arisen, yet we have slumbered away. we are still dealing with the legacy of colonial rule, in both the colonised and colonising states, but we have ignored the possibility that this tragedy might occur again. the accusation that china is exercising neo-colonialism is not at all unjustified. china has the same interests in exploiting african countries as some of our european states have had over the centuries. we have learned our lessons at great cost, but china has yet to learn how to implement human rights internally while already experimenting in colonial rule. we are on a dangerous course with china’s thirst for oil and the hunger that it exerts for african resources. we should send a clear signal to china: first deal with the internal human rights record, then show the world that it genuinely wants to engage in africa’s development goals rather then just using them instrumentally.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the implementation of the programmes of the 10th european development fund for the period 2008-2013 is of major humanistic and political importance. the aim of these activities is to eradicate poverty and social stability in partner countries and regions in the context of sustainable development, particularly in africa. the effectiveness of this multi-billion euro assistance agreed by the european parliament, the member states and other donors will depend on proper targeting, the simplification of formal barriers, the harmonisation of actions and constant monitoring by, among others, the european institutions. aid in the economic sense should be linked to partnership agreements, it should ensure the development of the necessary infrastructure to create jobs in the extractive, processing and agricultural industries. the european union, which is still short of raw materials and certain products, should be the market for the products. the measures should be accompanied by logistical support to ensure their efficient use.
madam president! the period of implementation of the 10th european development fund 2008-2013 comes at a time of particular challenges in the european and global development agenda. we can mention just a few of them: the implementation of the newly adopted european union-africa common strategy, the achievement of the millennium development goals, which are expected to be achieved by 2015, the implementation of the new epas, and the mid-term review of the financial perspective in 2009. we therefore face particularly difficult challenges in terms of programming, introducing new solutions and implementing the 10th edf. i think that the rapporteur, mrs carlotti, has done a very good job of capturing and summarising the key objectives and the difficult issues that will be a challenge for the implementation of the european development fund. i would like to draw attention to two issues which i believe are most important. the 10th european development fund provides almost €23 billion for cooperation with the world's poorest countries. the edf, if properly used, can make a significant contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. the first of the millennium development goals, the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, should therefore be an absolute priority for our european perspective. we must therefore be sure that the implementing regulation is really focused on achieving this objective, giving it priority over other social objectives. other goals are important, but we should always keep in mind the priority of ending extreme poverty. secondly, in order to increase the coherence, transparency and effectiveness of european development cooperation, the edf should be incorporated into the budget of the european union. the question of edf's budgeting should be discussed during the revision of the financial perspective. i realise that some member states are afraid of this, but from the point of view of the committee on development and probably the whole of the european parliament, there is no doubt that this would be beneficial for european development policy.
mr. chairman, please! the european union-latin america and the caribbean summits play an important role in strengthening and setting the direction of the strategic partnership between our regions. the forthcoming lima summit is another opportunity to deepen dialogue on issues of key importance to both regions. i am therefore pleased that the summit will focus on issues that are important for ensuring the sustainable well-being of our societies and their impact on sustainable economic growth. the summit will address, on the one hand, issues of social cohesion, and in particular poverty, inequality, discrimination and social exclusion. i would like to note that according to the 2007 estimates of the united nations commission on american and caribbean affairs, 36.5% of the population of the region lives in poverty and 13.5% in extreme poverty. despite the improvement in these indicators in recent years, this problem still requires the involvement of many partners, including, of course, the countries of the european union. on the other hand, the issues of sustainable development, environmental protection, climate change and energy are challenges that are increasingly affecting the functioning of both continents. there is therefore an undeniable need for common priorities and cooperation to respond effectively to the changes taking place. it is particularly important to reconcile economic growth with the principles of sustainable development. this is an extremely difficult task, especially when we're talking about emerging economies or economies in transition. let us also remember that cooperation between the european union and latin america and the caribbean goes far beyond the two main issues of the lima summit. i would also like to remind you that the second ordinary session of the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly will also be held in lima on the eve of the summit. this involvement of the european parliament is undoubtedly strengthening the strategic partnership between our regions. i therefore look forward with great interest to the outcome and the final declaration of the fifth summit of the european union - latin america and the caribbean.
mr. chairman, please! latin american countries have been implementing deep pension reforms with the substantial support of the world bank. the demographic crisis in europe makes us wonder whether we are satisfied with legal provisions that promise relatively much, without the financial certainty of securing those promises. it may be worthwhile to consider together, given the different experiences of both continents in this area, how to deal with this problem. how to give a chance to the elderly and often the sick, who are unable to continue working despite the economic effects of demographic collapse, to live a decent life.
the chairman of the council. − i have listened very carefully to the discussion on the preparations for the eulac summit and i think it will be of great help to us in the preparation and implementation of the summit. mr salafranca sánchez-neyra said that cooperation between the european union and latin america and the caribbean must go from words to deeds. i agree with that, but i would add that it is actually happening. eu latin america and the caribbean summits are not just big words, ambitious goals that are not followed up, but commitments that are actually fulfilled. let me just add a few facts to that. the report on bi-regional cooperation between the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean, presented by the joint presidency at the last, fourth, summit in vienna, demonstrates this substantial progress made so far in the effective implementation of the commitments. i should also mention the almost 400 quadri-regional measures to implement the guadalajara commitments, as well as the new list drawn up on the implementation of the 2006 vienna summit commitments. we want the lima summit to take the next step towards the adoption and implementation of the commitments made. a number of members, including mr schulz, mr meyer-pleite, mr liese, mr gopod dos santos and others, i cannot mention them all here, have raised the question of cuba. let me say that the lima summit will not be an eu summit on cuba, nor will it be a summit on cuba, but since so many opinions have been expressed, let me just highlight a few essential points. the european union's policy towards cuba is currently governed by the following documents: the european union's 1996 common position and the general affairs and external relations council's decisions of last year. these two documents constitute fundamental guidelines for all member states in their relations with cuba and in their discussions with third countries on cuba. let me add that human rights are at the heart of the european union's policy towards cuba. a new opportunity to discuss cuba will be at the june meeting of the general affairs and external relations council. let me say that slovenia, the slovenian presidency, is working to get a new common position adopted at that time. we hope to succeed in this. but as i said, this will not be the subject of the lima summit in may, which will be a meeting between the eu and all the countries of latin america and the caribbean. let me conclude by saying that the slovenian presidency hopes that this summit will give a new impetus, or as mr dos santos said, create a new dynamism in relations between the european union and latin america and the caribbean, and i am convinced that this parliament, with debates such as this one, can make a significant contribution to achieving this objective.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, mr salafranca, i can say that the commission has made every effort to make this summit a real success. as president martin schulz has said, and as you have just said, mr minister, we really need lima to give a strong impetus to our relations with latin europe. indeed, there are - as many of you have pointed out, as martin schulz has - many shared values, there is a common commitment to multilateralism and there is unquestionably the need for close cooperation between the european union and the countries of latin america if we are to have a say in a better world organisation. if we want reforms in the major world institutions, we will only achieve them through a deep enough agreement between latin america and the european union. there is no region in the world with which we have worked so closely on a multilateral level as latin america. i would now like to answer a few questions briefly. first the hostages: the commission has of course consistently supported all efforts to reach a humanitarian agreement for the release of all the hostages. and the commission is obviously very sensitive to the speeches which have raised this problem. i would like to say a word about cuba. the european union is not going to be the main focus of this meeting in lima, as the minister has said, but i would like to say that the european union's policy is one of constructive engagement. we do not support a policy of isolation or sanctions. our commissioner, louis michel, was recently in cuba. we are prepared to cooperate with cuba in areas of common interest, but of course the question of respect for human rights is part of our dialogue with cuba. we also want to make progress on the association agreements. we have the will to move forward with mercosur. we also have the desire, together with the andean community, to reach a conclusion in 2009. i would like to mention a few of the issues that have been raised in this very interesting debate. access to water, mrs belohorská, is a very important issue and the problem of access to water is included in the draft declaration of the lima summit. the commission supports projects and programmes in several countries to facilitate access to water. the problem of civil society participation was also raised. i would point out that there will be two preparatory events for the lima summit, organised by civil society: there will be the conference of organised civil society, esosoc; the conference of ngos, unorganised societies and civil society organisations, which will be held in lima on the occasion of the lima summit. the commission has given financial support for the organisation of these conferences and these conferences will be reported to the lima summit. the problem of food prices has been raised and it is true that the increase in food prices will certainly have an effect in latin america, where more than a third of the population already lives in poverty. in some countries, such as el salvador, the population is highly dependent on food. of course, this increase in food prices could have a profound effect on the already very vulnerable population. the biofuels strategy is obviously built around this problem. this is a delicate issue on which dialogue will surely be useful. the question of the place of women in latin america was also raised. the commission is seriously concerned about the problem in latin america, especially mexico and guatemala. we are well aware of this problem and are working to combat it. we thank the european parliament for its work on this issue. my answers, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, are not exhaustive, but the debate was very fruitful and will really enlighten this lima summit. i conclude that this lima summit should enable us to strengthen the dialogue with the region and to coordinate our action better in the light of the major international environmental issues, in particular. it is also an opportunity for us to see how we can support democratic responses to the structural problems inherent in social cohesion. it is clear that the european institutions must coordinate their efforts to differentiate their approaches and adapt them to the problems of each of the countries in the region. i would like to conclude, mr president, by congratulating eurolat on its action. eurolat, the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly, was established following the vienna summit in 2006, and eurolat has already made a valuable contribution to cooperation with the region, while strengthening democratic will on both sides. in this context, we are convinced that the european parliament, through its special links with the region through eurolat, will play a decisive role in enabling the association between the european union and the countries of the region to play an increasingly important strategic role. these are the few words which allow me to thank once again all the members who have spoken and who have contributed to the successful preparation of this lima summit.
the chairman of the council. − i would like to briefly inform you about the progress of the visa waiver and esta interviews. first of all, i would like to say that the issue of visa policy is of the utmost importance to the european community and that since the accession of new member states to the european union, both the commission and all the presidencies have made a great effort to ensure that all countries and all citizens have the same conditions for entering the united states of america and that of course everyone is on the visa waiver programme. the abolition of visas would, of course, mean equality for all citizens of the european union. the united states has begun this year with certain procedures, agreements, and opened the door to entry into the visa waiver program. the only bilateral talks that have taken place have been those concerning certain misunderstandings, certain in-depth discussions which we clarified as the presidency together with the commission earlier this year and agreed at a number of meetings on a bilateral system of cooperation in this area. such a system was also confirmed at the eu/usa troika meeting in slovenia on 12 march. the dual system means that the commission is given a mandate to negotiate and agree with the united states on matters of community concern, while at the same time the states can hold bilateral talks on matters within the competence of the member states. at the last home affairs council on 18 april, the council also voted on the mandate for the commission, so that the commission can now start such talks. we want transparency in this two-way cooperation. some member states have already started initial talks at bilateral level on what these agreements would be, but they are not yet in writing and we expect transparency from both the member states and the commission so that we can work at this level. if i may touch on electronic travel authorization, i must say that we have had several conversations in this regard. we are conducting so-called exploratory talks with the commission and the us side. so far, from the information we have so far, it appears that the united states will not require any other information from passengers than what passengers already voluntarily fill in on flights to the united states on the so-called form one to ninety-four, which is white or green for those on the visa system. this is extremely important. in the current discussions, it was also agreed that these checks would be free of charge and that once authorisation has been granted, they would last for two years. in fact, once that system is in place, citizens will send the same data to the united states authorities via the internet and will, of course, then treat it in the same way that the united states treats this data now. there is another area, of course, on which something specifically needs to be said, namely the talks with the united states of america, linked to the high level group on personal data protection. so far, we've managed to talk about 12 principles and we've found that they're the same. there's one principle that's still open. we hope that by the end of june we will be able to reach a point where we can see that it would be possible to continue the talks and give a different mandate to this group, which would begin by preparing the talks for the possible conclusion of a framework agreement with the united states of america in this area. why do we want this framework agreement? firstly, we want to follow the european parliament's resolution of last december, which specifically stated that it would be good to accept such an agreement, and we naturally believe that the possibility of negotiating and agreeing on such an umbrella agreement is only possible in principle and after the adoption of the lisbon treaty, that is, together with parliament, together with the council and together with the commission. only consensus among all three bodies will enable us to achieve common principles and common operating principles. at the same time, of course, once we have such an umbrella agreement, we will still specifically opt for any exchange of data, on a case-by-case basis. it will not be possible for this agreement to cover all subsequent ones. the current situation is such that with every agreement, every arrangement, these principles are reopened and renegotiated again and again. if we had such common principles to base ourselves on, concrete agreements and arrangements would, of course, be in a much better position. mr. president, that's all for now.
the commission's vice-president - mr dragutin mate, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-us ministerial troika on justice, freedom and security, which mr mate and vice-president franco frattini attended in march, was a very good opportunity to discuss some important issues with our american counterparts. we have taken a step in the right direction by adopting the ministerial declaration on the approach to the implementation of the new us visa waiver legislation. this legislation requires the conclusion of security agreements with countries that are or will be members of the visa waiver programme. the united states noted the two-pronged approach needed in the case of the european union, where competence in this area is shared between the community and the member states. matters falling within national competence will be discussed with national authorities, matters falling within the union's competence will be discussed with european authorities. the us negotiators also endorsed the common objective of ensuring safe, visa-free travel between the eu and the us as soon as possible. to achieve this objective, the commission proposed to the council the mandate which would authorize it to enter into negotiations with the united states. i thank minister dragutin mate, who chaired the justice and home affairs council on 18 april, because the council, with a very broad consensus, was pleased to give the commission this mandate, which is a proof of our common will to work and proceed in a unified way, which is obviously more effective. the commission will now start negotiations as soon as possible. we've already made contact with the american authorities. we must move quickly with the united states on the conditions of the visa waiver programme, which is a community competence, while safeguarding the rights and freedoms of our citizens to ensure that member states can have access to it as soon as possible. we intend in particular to ensure that any agreement between the community and the united states is based on the principle of reciprocity, on respect for fundamental rights and individual freedoms, including data protection and the right to privacy. in the context of these negotiations, as minister mate has just said, we will also discuss the electronic travel authorization system. passengers traveling to the united states by air or sea under the visa waiver program will be required to answer a number of questions online before departure. and, accordingly, an electronic travel authorization will be issued to them. i should like to point out that the system is already in operation between the european union and australia. the united states has provided us with information on the implementation of esta, the electronic travel authorization system, on several occasions, including, mr minister, during the videoconference we had with secretary chertoff. of course, there is still more to be done and minister mate and i will discuss these matters again with mr chertoff when he comes to brussels in mid-may. in all this we must maintain solidarity between the member states. the two-pronged, two-track approach will only work effectively if states negotiate with the us in a transparent manner. the united states should soon submit the modalities for implementing the memoranda of understanding with the member states, which have already signed agreements. because these implementation protocols are obviously essential and we will have to evaluate them. i'm wrapping this up. in close association with the presidency, the commission will continue its long-standing dialogue with the us authorities. relations between the european union and the united states in this respect require a trusting and indispensable partnership. the security of citizens can only be ensured by joint action, which safeguards fundamental rights. i believe that the adoption of the negotiating mandate is the best compromise possible. this leaves the member states some room to negotiate with the united states on matters which fall within their prerogatives, for example cooperation and information exchange between intelligence services, but it is up to us, of course, to ensure that visa-free travel to the united states is made possible for all citizens of the union. the extension of the visa waiver programme is being criticised in the us congress, but i believe that with the support of the european parliament, and with you, mr minister, we will be able to support the position of the european union, which wants to be firm on equal treatment for all its citizens. i can say this to parliament this morning, as i prepare to listen carefully to your various speeches which will be of use to our future negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i welcome the initiative of the council and the commission which leads to the establishment of clear and transparent framework rules for bilateral visa-free travel agreements between the countries of the union and the united states. earlier this year, some impatient states began their own negotiations with the united states, without the union's approval. others, however, have chosen to wait for the rules to be set within the union, knowing that they will be in a stronger position when the whole european union is behind them. today the united states has been given a clear signal that it cannot be pressured to break community rules, even on such sensitive issues as the disclosure of passenger data that go beyond the eu's rules. the important thing is that now individual countries can negotiate with the united states individually. they are the ones who have the greatest mobilization to bring about visa-free travel for their citizens. they must, however, bear in mind the mutual position they have jointly established and the obligation to inform the commission of the progress of the negotiations. now, the ball is largely in the united states' court. i urge the states to give serious thought to the criteria which form the basis for granting visas to citizens of the eastern part of the european union. are so many of them potentially illegal immigrants who won't leave the united states after their visas expire? because it is this factor, rather than the potential security risk, that is the basis for the overwhelming majority of visa refusals. after all, eastern europe is not a breeding ground for fundamentalist islamic terrorist groups. the economic factors that once drove eastern europeans to illegally enter the united states for the purpose of earning money have changed dramatically. since joining the union, these citizens have been able to work legally in the old europe. they can work there without breaking the law and without fear of immigration officials. in the light of these developments, the us position on the eu is becoming increasingly incomprehensible to these citizens and is creating a bad image for the us and therefore it is in the interest of both the us and the eu to conclude the negotiations quickly so that visas for eu citizens become history.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the commission very much for all the efforts it has made to ensure that european union citizens are treated equally at the us border. but i think the case of the visa waiver negotiations with the us is a very good illustration of the limitations of the european union. with all the support for the european commission, especially from the countries that joined the union in 2004 and 2007, we have seen these talks fail. the united states will sign bilateral visa agreements with each member state in turn, after meeting only the criteria of the united states law in this regard. it is easy for the commission to restrict the competences of the member states, sometimes by treaty, sometimes by practice. it is much more difficult to succeed in relations with third countries. despite such strong support for the commission's right to exclusive representation, some member states opted for separate negotiations. although my country is not among them, i am not surprised at all by these countries.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the european commission, and especially commissioner franco frattini, who is not here today, for his strong statement during the negotiations that visa issues are the responsibility of brussels and that countries negotiating with the united states are breaking eu solidarity. so far, the 14 richest countries in the union and slovenia have enjoyed this privilege, but all the countries of the union are claiming it, especially in my part of europe. unanimity is needed to settle visa issues successfully for all members of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of its citizens. it also shows that the union can speak with one voice. it is unfortunate that some countries have taken this matter to their own devices and have signed visa memoranda with the united states individually.
mr. chairman, please! the most important issue that we have to deal with at the moment is to get a visa agreement with the united states for all the countries of the european union on equal terms. this is a very basic question. poland is relying on a common european policy on this issue. i think that the solidarity of all the european countries represented by the european commission is a fundamental issue here. so that on 12 june, at the summit, this new visa regime, which allows all european union citizens to enter the united states on the same terms, can finally be settled. and one more thing: the european commission must represent the policy related to the visa regime on the principles-foundations of european law, so that the private information that is related to the visa regime does not violate the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! it is true that visa policy is part of the common policy of the european union and i very much want the commission to be effective in the negotiating mandate it has been given and to finally reach a good agreement, because that will be our common success. but so far, we've been very divided on this matter. the citizens of the european union have been divided by the united states into two categories: the better ones, who are easily admitted to the territory, and the worse ones, who often have to undergo humiliating procedures to get there. i want to protest loudly against this situation and point out one more moment that is very visible in the united states right now. the visa issue exists in the american election campaign. it's very bad when one of the candidates promises, for example, the abolition of visas for my countrymen, for poles, addressing this promise to the huge polish diaspora. we can't let that happen.
mr. chairman, please! to make the granting of the right to enter the united states dependent on the percentage of visa refusals is practically a demonstration of this, because this decision is obviously up to the officials of the united states: we will do it as we want, nothing depends on you, but through the procedure we will force you to humiliating behavior, to humiliating mode, to accept this humiliating mode. this is something that cannot be agreed upon, which indicates that there is no partnership and that we are in a position where practically nothing depends on us. i would like to see a community approach to this problem and the use of other instruments in the field of relations between the european union and the united states to provide a method of solving this problem.
mr. chairman, please! china's role in the world's economic development is extremely important. china is also a symbol of success for africans. in the last 25 years, china has created opportunities for 400 million of its citizens to get out of extreme poverty, and more than 200 million chinese people have entered the middle class. therefore, china has a lot of experience in creating economic development. so it's expected that this will have a positive impact on african countries as well. trade between africa and china is estimated to have increased from $4 million in 1995 to $55 million in 2006. africa is an important source of natural resources for china. the chinese economy is demanding more and more energy, more and more natural resources, so china will do anything to establish a permanent foothold in africa.
in writing. - it is good that people are talking about the problem of drugs, but the bureaucratic fight has not stopped and will not stop the dealers selling them in schools, universities, housing estates and other public places. in 1998, a special session of the united nations general assembly set the goal of a drug-free world within 10 years. in the years since, numerous recommendations, regulations, decisions, reports, a green paper have been issued, and today we voted on another draft resolution. and what did that do? i regret to say that never before in the history of the world have drugs been so readily available as they are today. just waiting for it to be available online. i voted for the resolution because i support any anti-drug project, but i want to say that unless we separate producers from distributors and make serious changes to the criminal code to effectively discourage people from making money off drugs, the problem will grow rather than disappear.
the chairman of the council. the european union is closely monitoring the situation in burma and myanmar respectively. we actively support efforts, in particular by the united nations, to accelerate the country's transition to democracy, reconciliation and development. we are also consulting with our asian partners on all of this. the european parliament was informed of the situation in burma and myanmar respectively by the special envoy mr fassina. he also informed the member of parliament about the coordination with neighbouring countries of burma and other asean members. as is known, the country was visited by the united nations special envoy mr gambari in early march. let me say at this point that we are disappointed that his visit has not produced any tangible results. above all, we were given the impression that the burmese authorities were not prepared to cooperate with the international community. the european union wishes the authorities to accept gambari's proposals for the further political process. these proposals, which are not too broad, are ultimately accepted by the entire international community. the eu is drawing attention to problems similar to those of mr gambari. the eu also regularly sends key political messages to burma and myanmar respectively. one of these key messages is the recent european parliament resolution on the situation in the country. our core shared message is that only a credible and inclusive process of democratisation can bring about national reconciliation, stability and prosperity. the european union is therefore also closely monitoring the opposition's reactions to the upcoming constitutional referendum. we call on the authorities to allow unhindered and open debate on the constitution before the referendum, to stop persecuting political activists and to repeal laws restricting freedom of expression. despite the current situation, the european union has not lost hope that the burmese authorities will ensure a free and fair referendum and allow the presence of international observers. it is ready to support the observers from the asean countries. in addition to the proper conduct of the referendum, we call on burma to release political prisoners and to cease arrests. the council, like the european parliament, is calling on burma not to extend the house arrest of ms san suu kyi. we hope that china and the asean countries will continue to support the gambari mission and the position of the united nations security council. we have also conveyed this message through diplomatic channels and through our special envoy. the european union intends to extend the common position on burma at the general affairs and external relations council next week. this will continue to allow humanitarian activities, albeit on a limited scale, while sanctions remain in place. we continue to call on international partners to provide more of the assistance that the burmese people so desperately need. the european union will continue to provide such assistance.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ferrero-waldner is unable to attend this meeting. i should like to make a few remarks on behalf of the commission and the council on burma. in a few days, on may 10, the burmese people will be called upon to approve or reject a new constitution. the european union and its partners consider that the process of preparing the draft constitution has not sufficiently involved all the different political forces and ethnic groups that make up the country. the ruling junta has acted entirely at will in this process. the constitution provides that 25% of the members of the national assembly shall be military appointees and the remaining 75% shall be elected. it is possible that aung san suu kyi will be able to vote in the elections scheduled for 2010, and even possibly run for office, but the regime seems to want to rule out her becoming the president of the union of myanmar. china, india and asean have some influence and are mainly concerned with the stability of the country, as well as trade relations and investment. mr gambari, the un special representative, with the help of discreet chinese diplomacy, was unable to open up the political process further and he indicated that he would focus on economic, social and humanitarian issues. in view of the absence of any tangible plans, the general affairs council will discuss on 29 april all possible operations for the european union to influence the situation in burma. i would like to stress that the european union is committed to promoting a balanced approach to the burmese issue. we are looking for objective results. on 19 november 2007, the council adopted a version of the common position, which introduces new sanctions. the ec regulation entered into force on 10 march. the annual review is scheduled for the end of this month. the european union's sanctions express our dissatisfaction with the slow pace of the transition to democracy, the continued detention of many political prisoners and the violation of fundamental freedoms. but the impact of sanctions must be regularly reviewed to ensure that sanctions directly affect the regime's members and their supporters. the commission has set up assistance programmes under the general cooperation policy, covering the health and education sectors. i am glad to see that the european parliament has expressed its support for these measures, in the exercise of its right of observation. this is in addition to echo's humanitarian aid in the countries and to burmese refugees in the region. we continue to give our full support to mr gambari's mission. the european union is part of the group of friends which brings together in new york the five permanent members of the un security council, the asean presidency, india, japan and norway, involved in monitoring the situation in burma. the european union's special representative for burma, mr fassino, is playing a very important role in supporting mr gambari's mission. that is the information i wanted to give you on behalf of mrs ferrero-waldner.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, first of all we want to call on the burmese regime: to release political opponents and the more than 1 800 political prisoners, including aung san suu kyi, the leaders of the ’88 generation students and the leaders of the shan nationalities league for democracy arrested in 2005; to account for all the casualties and missing persons from last september’s crackdown on protests by buddhist monks and democracy activists, including the whereabouts of missing monks and nuns; to secure access to burma for the incoming un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in burma and to permit opposition political parties to meet with the special envoy. there are real concerns about the so-called referendum: there is a danger that the referendum under current repressive conditions will only cement in place continued military rule. since announcing the referendum, the government issued law no 1/2008, which denies voting rights to members of religious orders, including monks and nuns. it also imposes a three-year prison sentence on anyone found ‘lecturing, distributing papers, using posters or disturbing the voting in any other manner in the polling booths or at a public or private place to destroy the referendum’. we seek guarantees from the government to convene independent election commissions, compile a proper voter registration list, lift longstanding restrictions on the media, permit freedom of association, expression and assembly in burma, and revoke new regulations that criminalise legitimate debate about the referendum.
madam president, commissioner, president of the council, i would like to thank you for your kind words. malta, spain, italy, france are countries that are particularly struggling with waves of immigrants, but they are not the only channels of migration. i want to draw your attention to the eastern border of the european union, including the border of my country, poland. the practice of recent months shows that this border is also a migration channel. it's also a place where people get to experience human drama. i would just like to mention the deaths of two chechen children who died of exhaustion while trying to get to poland with their mother, and in closed refugee centers in poland we have illegal immigrants not only from ukraine and belarus, but also from pakistan, korea and vietnam. so migration, illegal migration, is a problem for the european union as a whole, and it's a pity that we don't have a uniform approach to illegal migration in the eu. member states have such different rules on granting asylum and deporting immigrants, which is why i am calling for a uniform legal framework that, although similar, will allow us to treat illegal immigrants in the same way. it is clear that the only alternative to illegal immigration is legal immigration, and eu citizens should not be afraid of it. it is an opportunity for an ageing europe. i therefore welcome the approach of the slovenian presidency, because i too believe that we need closer cooperation between customs and border control authorities to improve the existing model of eu border management. the eu also needs to involve member states more in frontex's joint activities. member states cannot be so stingy. they must equip this important agency more generously, not only with experts but above all with ships, planes and other tools to ensure effective protection of the eu's borders, since the lives of many people at sea and in the mountains are at stake, as is our common security.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. preserving biodiversity is a challenge for the modern world, not just for its beauty, but also for the balance of nature and the well-being of humans. for years, we have seen the problem of chemical pollution and other negative effects of civilization, such as environmental degradation, climate change, pollution, deforestation, and habitat destruction. the greenhouse effect has become a hot topic recently. unfortunately, the problem of biological contamination by genetically modified organisms is being underestimated, and we are part of it. we forget that chemical contamination is time-degrading, whereas biological contamination is often irreversible. so we have to make a very clear decision: are we for biodiversity or are we for gmos? are we concerned about people and their environment or about the interests of monsanto and other companies like it that make huge profits from gmos? to save biodiversity, we also need to ensure that the most threatened species in the wild are fully identified, so that conservation objectives can be set and future extinction of species can be prevented. let us remember that it is easy to destroy, but it is often impossible to rebuild.
mr. chairman, please! meeting the growing demand for agricultural products and raw materials produced for non-food purposes leads to an intensification of agricultural production. in particular, this intensification is due to the production of biofuels and biomass. we know that intensive agriculture reduces biodiversity. the question arises: how can biodiversity conservation be reconciled with intensive infrastructure and economic development? modern biodiversity management requires increased monitoring of existing processes and appropriate investment in scientific research. if we are to benefit from economic growth, we must use part of the profits to finance the maintenance of biodiversity, and finally we must be aware that preserving and protecting the environment requires action at both local and global levels, on the part of each of us individually and across the economy. this is a task for all of us.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, i'd like to thank you for your very lively discussion. i can agree with you that art is not easy to talk about a serious and complex issue like the issue of biodiversity in a short, synthetic way. that's why you had a problem, mr. president, when you were just taking the time it took to do it. allow me to comment briefly on your discussions. first of all, you also supported the council's view that there is a link and interdependence between climate change and the impact on biodiversity. in your discussions you have been very broad and have touched on a number of issues which go beyond the narrow content of this meeting in bonn and concern the way of life of modern man, of the modern man, i would say, of the man of the 21st century. from waste, to transport policy, which therefore touches on issues of sustainable production, sustainable consumption and so on. i can assure you, i firmly believe, that the european union has good tools, we have tools, we have measures. i said in my introduction that our key orientation will be to be in bonn, to be committed to implementation, that is to say, to go into reality, to continue our orientation from words to actions. you raised the issue of funding, financial resources. financial mechanisms are defined and agreed at european level. i would stress that the council will be advocating new and innovative sources of finance at its meeting in bonn. i'm speaking on a global level, not just a european one. here i would like to emphasise the need to link sectors that affect biodiversity, and in particular the important role of the private sector in this. the tripartite presidency, together with germany and portugal and now slovenia, has committed to bringing this issue of private sector involvement in tackling biodiversity issues to bonn. the conference on 'business and biodiversity' in portugal was a great success and we want to see the upgrading of these solutions proposed in bonn. i would like to thank mr blokland for mentioning the successful meeting, the informal meeting of the environment ministers in ljubljana. mr blokland also spoke on behalf of two of your committees, and i thank him for that. we have opened up the question of forests, sustainable use of forests, forests and their impacts on biodiversity and of course as opportunities for biomass and also the very opportunities for second generation biofuels. i would like to point out in particular that the council is aware of the seriousness and complexity of the issue of sustainability criteria for the production of biofuels and biomass. that is why, in agreement with the european commission, we have started intensive work on the working group which, i hope, will be meeting in coreper next month to find good solutions for the sustainability criteria for the production of biofuels, which will then form part of the two directives currently being adopted. i would like to thank in particular all those who, in addition to the social and other social impacts, the negative impacts of biofuel production, also mentioned their impact on biodiversity, which is sometimes a little forgotten. i would like to conclude this brief comment by reiterating that we are committed to establishing a network of safe zones on both land and sea at a global level. and the european union has a good and effective instrument, which i believe is a good one. it is called natura 2000 and it is important that we make it a reality at both national and european level.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i think that this lively and knowledgeable debate reflects the interest of this house in these issues. i thank you for that. i definitely know that i speak on behalf of commissioner dimas when he wants to thank you for the interest parliament takes in relation to these issues. i recognise some old colleagues in the fight for environmental protection and biodiversity. homo sapiens as a race is an interesting thing, because we can fly to the moon, we can do mass communication through information technology and we can definitely talk. but we cannot create the rhinoceros or an eel or a little blue flower, and, when these creatures are gone, they are gone for ever, as you have rightly pointed out. let me just comment on a few things which i think are of principle interest. i would like to start with the issue of biofuels, because this is also a very lively debate right now in all the media and a big problem and challenge for all of us. as you know, the european council agreed this 10% biofuels target subject to very clear conditions, and our position in the european union is that we want sustainable biofuels that have no negative environmental or food production impact. we in the commission consider the long-term benefits of biofuels in terms of less co2 emissions because, remember, the alternative today is oil. security of supply and agriculture: new opportunities can be obtained thanks to the principles that were established. a limited target of 10%, robust sustainability criteria and also aiming at second-generation biofuels – this is the real challenge: to make sure that we can move as quickly as possible into the use of second-generation biofuels. but we will also have to act internationally on these issues and make sure that there are sustainability criteria and that this does not add to the food crisis. let me also say, in response to mr wijkman, that this whole issue of deforestation will be addressed in a communication, as i understand this summer or early fall, so this issue will also be addressed in the negotiations. at the same time it is necessary to catch the whole debate that is going on right now and make sure that we prepare properly a good discussion and a good decision on deforestation. that must also be prepared for the climate change negotiations. i would also say to ms doyle that maybe the main thing is not to try to merge the negotiations between the different conferences of parties but rather to make sure that we maximise the co-benefits when we implement both the measures on fighting climate change and making sure that we can keep up our biodiversity targets. so i think this is what has to be done now, especially when it comes to protecting tropical forests and to ensuring that we have these sustainability criteria for biofuels. so i think we should not aim for what we know is already impossible or would bring us into an administrative and otherwise impossible political situation but look for the implementation. this goes for the whole debate on legislation and regulation and ambitious targets. we have them. we have them already, but now it is a matter of implementing them and, of course, working, as i tried to tell you, on the seven points that we aim for in the negotiations, to make sure that we also work internationally with partners to ensure we have a good scientific basis which we will move into very concrete implementation. that is what i can say in general. finally, the action plan that was established is exactly about mainstreaming, including making sure that we also look at the common agricultural policy. so i think from this point of view, again, it is about making sure that we convince both member states and all our institutions to do everything to implement our targets. i will not take more time. i am very aware of the need to stick to our timetable, so may i say thank you once again for the debate and also assure you that commissioner dimas personally intends to attend the ministerial segment of cop 9. i am sure he looks forward to seeing some of you there and i anticipate your support towards a successful outcome of these important meetings.
in writing. i fully support this resolution. the ninth conference of the states parties to the un convention on biological diversity will be held in bonn in may 2008. the representatives of the countries will assess the process of loss of biodiversity in the world. they will also consider the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources. the loss of biodiversity in forests is particularly damaging, affecting the rate of deforestation and accelerating the climate crisis. i share the concern that climate change will further worsen the state of biodiversity in the world and lead to ecosystem degradation and species extinction, which in turn will have a negative impact on human development and the fight against poverty. we already know that about 20 percent of the world's carbon emissions are caused by deforestation and forest degradation. in this context, the eu's credibility is seriously damaged by the poor implementation by member states of biodiversity legislation and directives such as the birds and habitats directives. similarly, there is resistance to policy action, such as insufficient efforts to meet the commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity in the eu by 2010, reluctance to negotiate an access and benefit-sharing instrument and reluctance to allocate additional funds to developing countries to implement the convention.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, many wto member countries do not adhere to social, environmental or animal welfare standards, which, while allowing for a significant reduction in production costs, unfortunately prevents them from competing with the products produced by these economies. improving access to the european market for goods from third countries must take this into account, otherwise many areas of production in europe will simply be eliminated. secondly, the increasing openness of the european market to agricultural products from third countries in exchange for concessions from these countries to the export of european industrial products and services is weakening europe's agricultural potential. thirdly, i fully support the suggestions made by mrs muscardini on the establishment of a wto parliamentary assembly, the change in the classification of countries into developed and developing, the need for closer cooperation between the wto and the un, and the move away from the principle of consensus, particularly at the level of working groups and committees within the wto.
madam president! a dysfunctional institution must be reformed to serve all actors and consumers. the freedom of trade - which we support - is unfortunately accompanied by the temptation to be cunning, and to free trade you need a control mechanism, and that is what a healthy, normal wto is supposed to do. international trade is now so extensive, so massive and so fast that it requires good coordination. our parliament cannot be passive here, and i am convinced in my heart that the work of mrs christiana muscardini in reforming this organisation will meet these expectations and we will have an international body which will conduct trade along good and clear roads.
madam president! the common market, free trade, are the basic factors of economic development. 'unrestricted' does not mean 'unregulated' and does not mean that there are no rules governing the conditions of trade that take account of the preservation of competitiveness. the need for appropriate regulation of world trade is of paramount importance in the era of globalisation. this is why the wto plays such an important role, which is a very broad organisation with over 150 member states. the effectiveness of the wto would be enhanced if the scope of the body's activities were simple and limited to trade policy. transparency, competitiveness is primarily the fulfillment of certain standards and quality requirements in the production process, in the field of environmental protection, working conditions and wages, animal welfare, etc. production costs and prices alone are not a measure of competitiveness. in conclusion, i would like to say that the reform of the wto is an expression of the will to cooperate for development and to fight poverty.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission recognises the risk that feed imports may become more difficult and more expensive, due to asynchronous approvals of gmos in exporting countries and in the eu. i am aware of the agriculture and rural development dg study on the issue of feed shortage. i must stress that the effects of a zero tolerance policy for unauthorised gmos on feed imports only become an issue in the event of so-called asynchronous gmo approvals. one of the key factors is the difference in the duration of the gmo approval procedure in third countries and in the eu, in combination with the lack of appropriate segregation mechanisms in exporting countries and the marketing strategies of the seed industry in these countries. the increased use of gmos by your main trading partners in commodities also has an important influence. against this background, the commission is focusing its efforts on addressing these key factors. discussions with the european food safety authority have been initiated with the aim of making efficiency gains in the duration of the authorisation procedure, without compromising on the quality of the efsa scientific assessment. i would like to remind you of the importance in this respect of the cooperation of member states in the standing committee and in the council. last but not least, i would like to note that the commission recently adopted the authorisation of ga 21 maize, which will facilitate imports with the advantageous presence of this gm event from argentina. the commission is also currently in the process of sending to the council a proposal for the authorisation of a gm soya bean, after the standing committee failed to reach a qualified majority. this soya bean authorisation will also enable a number of feed imports and thus contribute to the temporary improvement of the feed shortage problem that the honourable member raises. the eu legislative framework on gm food and feed aims primarily at ensuring the safety of the products placed on the market. this is why gm food and feed products are subject to pre-market approval. the zero tolerance approach for unauthorised gmos currently applied by the eu has been laid down in eu legislation, having been approved by the european parliament and the council as the best way to protect human and animal health and the environment. it is similar to the approach followed by the vast majority of third countries, including major gmo producers. at international level, the commission, in close collaboration with the member states, continues to support the development of codex guidelines on the issue. the commission, however, recognises the possibility of incidents of the type indicated among the reasons behind your question and recognises that such occurrences are becoming easier to detect because of constant improvements in measurement techniques. the commission will examine whether it is appropriate and feasible to come up with an individual solution for this specific problem, in full respect of existing legislation. in the case of the wto complaint brought against the european community in 2003, the corresponding panel report, concluded in 2006, did not call into question the eu legislation, but rather the way it has been implemented in the past. the commission has managed to contain this dispute until now in the context of a regular dialogue on biotech issues with the complainants. we clearly showed the complainants that there is currently no moratorium or undue delay in the ec approval system of biotech products. sixteen products have been approved since the establishment of the wto panel, with only seven in 2007. we cannot rule out that complainants, notably the united states, will take into consideration the trade implications of the issue of advantageous presence in their decision on whether to proceed with further dispute settlement. however, the european community would be in a good position to defend its case, and the present dialogue makes this eventuality unlikely.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. there are three areas where gmos can be dangerous. the first area is public health. there are more and more signals about the possible harm of gmos to human health, but these signals are being ignored. hard evidence of gmos' harmfulness could come up at any time. there was a time when there was no evidence that asbestos was harmful, and when it was found, it cost billions to remove. the problem with gmos is that once they're spread, you can't get rid of them. the second area is the environment. many scientists warn that the environmental consequences of gmos could be catastrophic. for this reason, among other things, a huge shelter for traditional seeds has been set up on the ice of the norwegian island of spitsbergen in case they are destroyed by the expansion of gmos. the third risk is economic. the expansion of gmos is a way to make farmers economically dependent on the big biotech companies. farmers will grow gm crops under conditions dictated by powerful corporations with patented seeds. europe is not starving today. food is getting more expensive, but the union's agricultural policy continues to be based on administrative restrictions on agricultural production. europe does not need to look for super-intensive food production technologies. europe should focus on healthy food produced using traditional methods. there is, of course, the problem of competition. i agree with mr stevenson and the other speakers on this point. the ban on gmo crops and the ban on gmo feed should not unilaterally harm our farmers. it should be equivalent to a ban on the import of products containing gmos, both plant and animal. there should be a clear principle the same requirements for producers exporting their products to the european market as for our own producers.
mr. chairman, please! the threat to the balance of the environment requires us to take action that will lead to a change in the development model and a different lifestyle of our society. economic activity involves environmental costs, which are often unfortunately not taken into account in the economic calculation. although the 'polluter pays' principle, as one of the pillars of the european union's environmental policy, is valid throughout the community, its application in some countries leaves much to be desired. the european union is introducing a number of legislative acts and standards to improve the state of the environment, and new market instruments are needed. economic taxes in the european union can play a very important role in achieving environmental objectives. so far, only the carbon trading system is in place. it seems that's not enough. other market instruments should be considered. it is very important that the revenues from environmental taxes are used to prevent harmful impacts on the environment and human health. it appears necessary to harmonise environmental taxes gradually across the union. environmental taxation varies widely across the member states. leaving this to the member states risks distorting competition between undertakings. the introduction of new market instruments must respect a number of basic principles: public acceptance, taxes cannot be perceived as an additional constraint imposed by the european union, and taxes must be introduced gradually. some eu member states already have their own market instruments, such as energy saving certificates, green energy certificates. however, all member states should strongly support low-carbon technologies, energy saving, renewable technologies. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the european union remains a leader in environmental protection and i think it has an obligation to set an example for the world.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the author of the report on her excellent approach to environmental protection. i would also like to remind you that ever since the un report our common future, by margot wallström, we know that it is our duty to future generations, our children and grandchildren, to leave the natural environment in the best possible condition. the european union is certainly active in this area, but the european parliament is also keeping its finger on the pulse. we have a special interim commission on climate change, we have good legislation, we issue regulations, directives and decisions. now is the time to strengthen other mechanisms, especially financial incentives, taxes, but also to strengthen information campaigns and prevention activities. a community approach is needed to make these actions effective. the member states must break down their resistance, indeed their reluctance, to tax harmonization, for example in the environmental field. today, environmental taxes, despite their legitimate purpose, are not very popular like taxes, they are simply unpopular. we therefore need to make efforts at european and national level to make environmental charges and taxes socially acceptable. we need to have a high level of environmental awareness. we need incentives that perpetuate good practices, that promote pro-environmental social behavior. we're not resisting when we pay 5 cents for a plastic bag in a shop in the european parliament, and it's not the 5 cents that are the key, it's not the financial dimension of the project, but the accompanying moment of reflection, when the customer is wondering whether to take the plastic with them or to let it stay and not pollute the earth. and that's a good way to raise awareness. people will accept financial charges, taxes, and other environmental charges, but only if they believe in their meaning and see the positive effects.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the market instruments for environmental policy described by the rapporteur are mainly taxation and levies. as it rightly points out in paragraph 28, they may not fulfil the objectives pursued and may only become an additional source of budget revenue. the issues presented in detail are for the future only. the question arises: who is to carry out, in accordance with the polluter pays principle, the cleaning of soil, water and air, of residual post-production waste, of obsolete pesticides, asbestos, phosphorus chlorides and others? i think the green bonds referred to in paragraph 67 are very suitable for this purpose. the companies involved in this process would receive unrealised tasks and implement them on the charging market. the introduction of such bonds, which can be called green bonds, will solve many of the problems associated with the marketing of environmental protection. it's a great idea, and i congratulate mrs. ann ferreira.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i want to focus on two issues in this debate. first, the burden-sharing of climate change mitigation within the european union is highly unfair. for example, co2 emission limits were allocated to individual member states without adequate consideration of their developmental delays, which in poland, among others, resulted in a sharp increase in electricity prices and thus a marked increase in the cost of production in the economy and the cost of living of the population. secondly, the implementation of the climate package, according to the european commission's own estimates, costs about 50 billion euros a year. with most of the world's fastest growing economies, such as china, india and brazil, and economic powers such as the united states, not particularly concerned about climate change, the european economy may no longer be competitive on the global market, necessitating the introduction of instruments to protect european manufacturing, which is burdened with such high additional costs.
mr. chairman, please! environmental protection is a multi-task, and its effectiveness depends on synchronisation and the skillful use of available tools, including economic ones. the green paper instruments provide a number of actions without presenting systemic solutions. examples include promoting fuel savings for municipal, transport and other purposes that are justified. but the rapid rise in the price of environmentally friendly electricity and the widespread use of hydrocarbons to produce it is a cause for concern. the proposed co2 levies are a punishment for the effects and do not remove the causes. promoting the development of clean energy sources: water, wind, solar, nuclear while stabilising energy prices is of vital importance for society, the economy and environmental protection and should be the subject of rapid systemic action. the report by mrs ferreira draws attention to this.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. this is a good report. i do not want to repeat the arguments that have been made here, but i would like to draw attention to just a few points. first, man is not the most important element of the environment, and man does not own water, soil, land. man is only a user, therefore he is only a tenant. we have to remember that. the environment knows no borders - air, water and soil - so we must act across borders, not just at eu level, but also at global level. otherwise, our actions miss the point. i'd like to make one more point. besides these fiscal, economic pressures, it's very important to raise awareness from the children. otherwise we will not have energy-efficient technical equipment, houses, cars, vehicles, so thank you for what you have already done, and i ask you to continue in this direction, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. thank you, mrs ferreira, for your report. it raises an issue, as this debate shows, which will become increasingly important in the future. we said in this debate today that we need to establish our ecological mindset. i am convinced that it is very large in the european union, it is large in europe, in individual countries. people want to live green, they want to have a green lifestyle, they have a lot of green consciousness. but let's not forget that many countries in the european union have lived for many decades in other systems, like bulgaria, poland. our economies have been switched to a different way of getting energy. therefore, the current over-regulation of the green tax system may reduce the competitiveness of these economies and, consequently, reduce their environmental awareness.
madam president, with regard to your comments on announcing the results of roll-call votes, allow me to express my gratitude to all those who chair votes in this house. on behalf of all of us i would like to thank mr vidal-quadras for passing on the suggestion i made the day before yesterday. thank you very much for agreeing to see how smoothly it goes.
madam president! the commission's priorities for 2009 are employment growth, climate change and a sustainable europe. employment in the european union deserves special attention. the amsterdam treaty was adopted at the luxembourg summit in november 1997 and provided the basis for the formulation of a european employment strategy. it was given priority because of the problem of unemployment in the member states, with 17 million people out of work at the time. nine years later, in 2006, 64.3% of people of working age were in employment in the eu-27. denmark had the highest employment rate and poland the lowest. the unemployment rate for the working age population was 7.9% in total. by comparison, the unemployment rate in the united states was 4.6 percent. in the last year, 24 of the member states recorded a fall in unemployment, while 3 recorded an increase. the largest declines were observed in poland, bulgaria and latvia, while the largest increases were recorded in estonia. the report by mrs haug shows the importance of the role of the member states in the employment policy of the eu.
madam president, i fully support the adopted resolution drafted by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and others. there are those that talk the talk and there are those that walk the walk. europe should strengthen its relationship with latin america. we will reap the benefits of this relationship for generations to come, something which we cannot say about the galileo project. after all – and as the resolution points out – the euro-latin american partnership has an overall population of more than one billion people, who make up one third of the un member states and account for more than a quarter of world trade.
madam president! the world trade organization was established to promote free and multilateral trade. it was recognised that open markets based on friendly and fair rules are key to sustainable economic growth and to reducing global poverty. however, for many wto citizens, it is still a mystery. this is due to a lack of transparency in the work and poor public information. the current narrow g4 and g6 working groups are often seen as assemblies of representatives of large states imposing or seeking to impose their will on other members. another disadvantage is the lack of technical and legal assistance from the wto to less developed countries that do not benefit economically from greater market liberalisation. countries such as india, china and brazil have been designated as developing countries, which allows them to benefit from more favourable conditions and diversified commitments. i think that's a mistake in wto policy. the organization fails to take into account the enormous potential of these countries and their resources. these countries take advantage of this and often trade at a price that is dumped to the detriment of other countries. a more explicit breakdown of developing countries should be made, taking into account factors such as economic strength, economic development, gdp growth and export development.
madam president! europeans value the environment. eurobarometer surveys show that over 70% of people want environmental, economic and social policy to be treated with equal attention by decision-makers. climate change is on the rise. over the last 100 years, average temperatures in europe have risen by 0.095°c and may rise by 2°c or even 6°c over the next century. the oecd estimates that 6.4% of child deaths and illnesses in europe are caused by pollution. the european union can meet the pollution reduction targets of the kyoto protocol (the president cut off the speaker)
through the introduction of emission trading rules in the european union countries and other instruments, including the european climate action programme. i believe that mrs ferreira's report is another stimulus for member states to take action in the field of environmental protection.
i voted in favour of the resolution on international financial reporting standards. ifrss facilitate the comparison of financial statements between companies operating in the same or even different sectors. i believe that the european union should examine whether and what benefits the application of international financial reporting standards brings to small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − the european parliament resolution on the annual policy strategy 2009 made a positive reference to many of the points in the european commission document. it is particularly important to highlight the interdependencies between economic, social and environmental progress relevant to the creation of sustainable economies. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i particularly welcome the support for initiatives aimed at stimulating the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises. the issue of the proper implementation of the internal market-critical directives, in particular the services directive and the consumer credit directive, is not to be overlooked. the real benefits of european integration depend on the correct implementation of the provisions into national law by all member states. however, it should not be forgotten that the european commission plays a central role in monitoring, reporting and supporting member states in achieving this objective. in its resolution, parliament noted the consequences of the recent european court of justice rulings in the viking, laval and rüffert cases and the need for further debate in the european parliament. i look forward to the european commission's involvement and to a constructive discussion with its representatives on this issue. i agree that 2009 will be a watershed year for the functioning of the european institutions. however, i hope that this will not hinder the implementation of the key objectives for that year.
in writing. − 2008 is the year of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, which is due to enter into force in 2009, conferring new competences on the european union, with a significant impact on the community budget. the new compositions of parliament and the commission will face a completely new budgetary procedure, to which the 2010 budget will be subject. it is therefore essential that changes to the relevant budgetary and legislative instruments are clearly agreed by the end of this year to ensure a clear framework for 2010. in addition, preparations for a comprehensive review of all aspects of union expenditure should be stepped up to enable the commission to present a report before the end of this year. the principle of solidarity must remain a priority for the coming year, while guaranteeing the financial means to implement it. it is worrying that the simultaneous implementation of the existing priorities and the new ones set by the commission is virtually impossible, without prejudice to the former, because of the margins of the ceilings set in the multiannual financial framework. the preliminary draft budget should therefore give a realistic picture of all needs for the coming year, taking into account parliament's demand for the full use of the amounts allocated to pilot projects, since these enable the effective implementation of new policies and actions in the interest of all european citizens.
in writing. - madam president! - what are you doing? the budgetary allocations for 2009 must take account of the specific circumstances of the following year. the budgetary implications of the expected entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the european elections and the formation of the new composition of the european parliament and the european commission, which poses a challenge to the continuity of legislative and budgetary work. at the same time, it is the year of full implementation of the 2007-13 financial perspective, after two 'running years' that were hampered by the delay in the legislative framework and thus the late start of the multiannual programmes. the emphasis on financing innovation policy and the european union's ambition in international policy is understandable. however, this cannot be at the expense of cohesion policy, which is so badly needed today because of the disparities in development between countries and regions. the principle of solidarity, which is set out in paragraph 3 of the report, is accompanied by a commentary on the proper and transparent use of the structural funds. this is particularly important in the context of the budget review planned for 2008-09 with implications for the eu's finances after 2013. this is another important element for budgetary policy in 2009.
in writing. the aim of the world trade organisation was to establish a free and multilateral trading system. it was recognised that open markets based on transparent and fair rules are key to sustainable economic growth and to reducing global poverty. however, for many wto citizens, it is still a mystery. this is due to a lack of transparency in the work and poor public information. the current narrow g4 and g6 working groups are often seen as assemblies of representatives of large states imposing or seeking to impose their will on other members. another disadvantage is the lack of technical and legal assistance from the wto to less developed countries that do not benefit economically from greater market liberalisation. countries such as india, china and brazil have been designated as developing countries, which allows them to benefit from more favourable conditions and diversified commitments. i think that's a mistake in wto policy. the organization fails to take into account the enormous potential of these countries and their resources. these countries take advantage of this and often trade at a price that is dumped to the detriment of other countries. a more explicit breakdown of developing countries should be made, taking into account factors such as economic strength, economic development, gdp growth and export development.
in writing. − high quality global reporting standards are of paramount importance for the stability of financial markets. international financial reporting standards (ifrss) undoubtedly facilitate comparisons of financial statements between companies and thus enable investors to make sound decisions. however, i would like to point out that the requirements for the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises are different from those of investors operating on the capital market. therefore, i agree with the rapporteur that the ifrs for smes proposed by the iasb are far too complex. i would like to emphasise that i will consistently oppose solutions which, instead of simplifying, actually create further barriers to the functioning of businesses. the rmss project was developed for relatively large smes (over 50 employees). i would like to mention the recent data published by eurostat, which shows that enterprises with fewer than 50 employees account for 98.7% of all enterprises operating on the european union market, and that 1.1% or some 210 000 enterprises are smes with more than 50 employees. i would like to emphasise that i am not denying the idea of the ifrs for small and medium-sized enterprises. however, i believe that the european union should carefully examine the benefits of adopting the ifrs for smes. i will be watching closely for further debate on this matter.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the political situation and internal security in zimbabwe have deteriorated dramatically since the parliamentary and presidential elections in march. the fact that the election results have not been announced so far is a sign of the legal chaos, but it also indicates the totalitarian nature of the government in this african country. the very essence of democracy in africa is in serious jeopardy today. the regime has again used force against the opposition and against the democratic aspirations of the zimbabwean people. the european union must therefore respond decisively to this situation, including our parliament, but we must also condemn in the strongest possible terms the actions of china, which is sending a cargo ship full of weapons to the african coast in an attempt to support the mugabe regime. for this reason, i welcome the provision in our joint draft resolution calling on china to stop exporting arms to zimbabwe. only in this way will the number of victims of government terrorism, to which the people of this country are subjected, be reduced.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it will shortly be a month since presidential elections took place in zimbabwe. surely this was ample time to count the vote and announce the result. currently a recount continues in 23 constituencies at the request of the ruling zanu-pf party. there are serious concerns regarding how ballot boxes have been stored and it cannot be ruled out that ballot papers are being tampered with in the process of this recount. exit polls suggested that a second round would be necessary in the presidential race. if mr mugabe now announces his victory, it must be questioned. let us hope that a second round will indeed take place. however, the international community must keep up the pressure to ensure that this round is as free and fair as possible. election observers and foreign journalists must be allowed into the country. in the longer term, reforms – including the creation of an independent electoral commission – will be needed to ensure that such a farce can never be called a democratic election again.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. mugabe's dictatorial rule has turned zimbabwe from a thriving economy into a complete ruin. inflation is 100,000% per year, gdp has fallen by 1/3 in the last few years, and the decree to reduce prices by 50% has left the stores empty. recently, all enterprises in the country have been nationalized. furthermore, zimbabwe's life expectancy is among the lowest in the world, at 37 years for men and 34 years for women. a quarter of the population is infected with hiv, and about 80 percent live below the poverty line. if we want the change in zimbabwe - which is absolutely necessary - to be brought about peacefully, we must ensure that it is brought about through elections, not through some bloody riot and revolution.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 29 march 2008, zimbabwe held presidential and local government elections. but to this day, their results have not been announced. the blocking of the publication of the presidential election results and the accompanying repression of opposition circles are an unacceptable form of stifling the democratic aspirations of the zimbabwean people. the fact that the zimbabwe supreme court on 14 april 2008 rejected an urgent request by the opposition movement for democratic change in zimbabwe (mdc) group calling on the electoral commission to declare the election results shows that the judiciary is indeed dependent on the incumbent president robert mugabe, who fears losing power. we strongly condemn the violation of human rights and the use of violence against the opposition. the supply of arms to this country today is tantamount to allowing the possibility of civil war and deserves condemnation in equal measure. therefore, special credit goes to south african port workers for stopping the unloading of weapons from china to zimbabwean security forces.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to add to what my colleagues have said here that the zimbabwean issue cannot be indifferent to us. europe has invested and continues to invest a lot of money in africa with the good idea that we are building democracy there and allowing the standard of living of the average person to rise. the example of mugabe and zimbabwe is contagious to other heretics in africa, and even where there is democracy, but opposition armed with chinese weapons or from other representatives of the socialist world still threatens those democracies and it is our duty to defend them. so we cannot just leave zimbabwe behind, and these voices - i think - are there and should be heard across africa.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? the drastic violations of human rights in iran, in particular the threat of stoning to death of almost ten women - i am thinking of the following: iran, khayrieh, kobrze n., fatemeh, ashraf, kalhori, shamameh ghorbani, leyli ghomi, hajar and the sisters zohreh and azar kabiriniat, and others. the use of the death penalty against minors, the imposition of the death penalty against people who draw attention to women's rights, demand a strong reaction from the democratic world. the arrests of the 'one million signatures' campaigners indicate that the public's right to express their views on important issues is being blocked. such actions are condemnable. the european union structures should monitor the human rights situation in iran. we expect an observer mission to be sent to iran and to prepare a detailed report on the matter so that the european parliament can examine the report and present its own position on the matter and proposals for action that could lead to an improvement in the human rights situation in iran.
mr. chairman, please! today, the head of the national council of resistance of iran, mrs rajavi, met with french politicians and representatives of the european parliament. in her speech, mrs. rajavi made it very clear how important women's rights are to the democratic opposition in iran. it showed once again that the iranian opposition is a hope for us too, that change will come to iran. it's just that you have to take a few steps. the first step is to follow the court rulings that the iranian mujahideen should be removed from the list of terrorist organizations. the second, and perhaps even more important, is to finally recognize the national council of resistance of iran as the representative of a democratic iran, with whom we should hope for peaceful change in iran.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the draft resolution we refer to the cotonou agreement, and in particular to the chapter on humanitarian aid. i must, however, remind you of the sad event that took place at the last acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in ljubljana a month ago. the acp side then rejected the assembly's compromise resolution on chad. moreover, the rejection of this resolution was promoted by delegates from the countries that neighbour chad, and their comments were previously included in the compromise text. we found it difficult to understand why our african partners chose to reject this resolution. i hope that the european parliament's resolution which we shall adopt in a few minutes will fill the gap which has been created by the lack of a proper and expected resolution of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i think we can all agree with the words of chad's president idriss deby, that to be the guarantor of 300,000 sudanese refugees, 170,000 chadian internal refugees, is a heavy burden. the european community is aware of this, which is why 14 european union countries have decided to fulfill the mandate imposed by the un security council and are beginning to send 4,000 troops to chad. we are glad that the european union has shown solidarity and responsibility, although the scope of this solidarity could have been wider. most of the 14 countries that have chosen to participate in the mission, to name just a few: ireland, finland, romania and poland, have no historical or economic ties to chad. in directing their aid to chad, these countries have shown solidarity but also selflessness in their willingness to help vulnerable civilians, victims of the conflict in darfur and the internal conflict in chad, refugees in camps on the saudi-chad border and humanitarian mission workers working in the region. i hope that this mission will make a significant contribution to the resolution of the conflict and help the people of both chad and sudan, and we wish the chadians themselves a successful free, democratic and transparent election in 2009.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? as of 3 february 2008, there is no information on the fate of ibni oumar mahamat saleh, spokesman for the coalition of parties in defence of the constitution. torture, imprisonment, all kinds of repression against the opposition. freedom of speech is restricted. the right to a fair trial is being limited. in particular, in eastern chad, sudanese security forces and armed groups have threatened civilians and attacked humanitarian organisations. chad hosts over 250,000 refugees from sudan and some 57,000 refugees from the central african republic, including refugees from darfur. the effects of the conflict in darfur are being felt in chad. the armed conflict is accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe: food shortages for refugees, rising food prices, less than 20% of children attending school, children being recruited into armed forces, and widespread violence against children, especially sexual violence against girls. it is essential to enable refugees to return to their homes. it is essential to stop the armed conflict in chad and the effects of the crisis in darfur. only a resolution of the armed conflict will give the chance to provide real help to the 4.5 million people of darfur and eastern chad. only a cessation of hostilities will give us a chance to reduce human rights violations. the images of emaciated women sitting on the doorsteps of burned-out houses with hungry children in their arms, which were so common in poland and other european countries during world war ii, are now commonplace in chad and sudan. europe has managed to emerge from this tragic situation. let's help the people of chad and sudan find hope. let's block any further military action through a peacekeeping mission.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the subject of today's debate is the violation of human rights in chad, where the situation is as dramatic as in darfur, sudan or the central african republic, where ethnic, linguistic and religious conflicts are accompanied by various conflicts of interest, especially political and oil. the economically poor and underdeveloped countries of africa, although rich in natural resources, including oil, metals and precious stones, are becoming not only the scene of the trade in these resources and drugs but also a lucrative market for arms, one of the main causes of human rights abuses. in an atmosphere of growing conflict and war, many unscrupulous traffickers, both local and foreign, are profiting from the chaos, the refugees, the suffering of millions of innocent people, even the genocide, rape, and exploitation of women and children. the situation is also worsened by the passivity of the international community, which is controlled and exploited by the great powers that pursue their interests on the world stage. humanitarian missions of all kinds do little to help, and sometimes they even contradict their original purpose and calling. such a situation seems hopeless as long as human life and dignity are at odds with practical materialism, liberalism, the spreading civilization of death, sometimes even promoted by organizations claiming to be humanitarian in the dissemination of education called sexual and reproductive health. thus, resolutions and reports of all kinds can only appease the conscience of the authors, but they will not improve the situation in africa unless african leaders and powers, both eastern and western, stop profiting from war and the spread of hatred on the african continent.
mr. chairman, please! despite an agreement signed a year ago between all political parties in chad to strengthen the democratic process and a subsequent non-aggression pact with the sudanese authorities, the situation remains very tense. government forces regularly clash with rebel groups from darfur armed fighters, raiding humanitarian aid convoys. the state of emergency has been used to impunely imprison opposition figures and severely restrict freedom of the press and speech. the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the country is particularly worrying, with over 300,000 refugees in 12 camps along chad's eastern border with sudan as a result of the darfur conflict and its transboundary effects. the ongoing fighting has hampered the delivery of food to the camps, and the refugees are growing in appalling conditions. the mass displacement of civilians has resulted in continued aggression and violations of fundamental human rights. in view of the apparent stalemate in stabilising the situation in chad, international institutions should step up efforts to promote dialogue between all parties to the conflict, and only a global agreement has a chance of preventing a humanitarian disaster in the country. it is essential to deploy european forces as soon as possible to support humanitarian action in the region and to increase protection for civilians and refugees.
mr president, i would like to refer again to the resolution adopted in ljubljana, which our african colleagues voted against. i was really disappointed and sad. i don't think, i hope not, that the values for africa come from china, with its aggressive economic invasion that we are seeing now. we don't know how to treat our african partners when they treat chad like this. but one thing is quite clear: they must be convinced of human rights. for us, there is no other choice. it appears that this path will be long and expensive, but there is no other choice.
madam president! if the introduction of the euro has been such a success and has had such a practical and economic effect, i wonder - and here i am addressing myself to commissioner almunii - whether it would not be worthwhile to invest a few euros in education, in raising the motivation of the new member states so that they can join the common euro area as soon as possible. because, as the latin proverb says, "bona securia non olet", euphemistically, good money smells or does not smell, who knows if even the british will not be convinced that the euro might be worth adopting, because of the various benefits it brings.
the chairman of the council. - before speaking about georgia, let me refer to the statement by the president of the european parliament at the very beginning of today's session on burma and myanmar respectively. as this is the first time i have had the opportunity to speak today, i would like to express on behalf of the presidency our deepest condolences to all the relatives of the victims of cyclone nargis in burma or myanmar. i would also draw attention to the presidency statement issued yesterday, in which it expressed the european union's readiness to provide urgent humanitarian aid to the country. now, to georgia. ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the decision of the european parliament to include the situation in georgia on its agenda, as relations between georgia and the russian federation are very unstable. the situation in this country is being closely monitored by the council. the general affairs and external relations council discussed georgia recently, on 29 april. yesterday, the political and security committee discussed the issue, and deputy prime minister baramidze spoke before it. on 2 may, the presidency issued a statement on behalf of the european union on the escalation of tensions between georgia and russia. the high representative for the common foreign and security policy, mr solana, had spoken to president saakashvili twice before and met with georgian special envoy mr bakradze on 30 april. the presidency also discussed the latest developments with foreign minister lavrov of the russian federation at the eu-russia troika meeting in luxembourg. i would like to stress that the european union is deeply concerned by the recent series of events which have led to an increase in tensions between georgia and the russian federation. we are particularly concerned about the announcement of an increase in the number of peacekeepers from the commonwealth of independent states in abkhazia and the introduction of 15 additional checkpoints along the administrative border line. we are concerned about the downing of an unmanned georgian aircraft in georgian airspace on april 20th. we are also concerned by the decision of the russian federation to establish official contacts with the institutions of the de facto authorities in south ossetia and abkhazia, which was done without the consent of the georgian authorities. the european union reaffirms its firm commitment to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia within its internationally recognised borders, as confirmed by united nations security council resolution 1808. the european union continues to support international efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflicts in abkhazia and south ossetia. in particular, we support the activities of the united nations under the auspices of the friends of the united nations secretary-general and the efforts of the organization for security and cooperation in europe. the european union called on all parties to refrain from any action that could escalate tensions and to take steps to restore confidence. in this light, the european union welcomes the initiative of the georgian president to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in abkhazia. we hope that this initiative will encourage a constructive dialogue on this issue. the european union special representative and the european commission will also continue their efforts to build confidence in supporting the resolution of the conflict in georgia. the european union also welcomes the decision of the russian federation to normalise relations with georgia in certain areas. this would lead to the lifting of visa restrictions for georgian citizens, the restoration of postal links and other positive measures. with regard to the internal political situation in georgia, i would like to take this opportunity to express the european union's hope that the upcoming parliamentary elections on 21 may will be free and fair. it is important that the georgian authorities take all necessary measures to strengthen public confidence in the conduct of the elections. we therefore approve the launch of an electoral aid programme financed by the stability instrument. we also welcome poland's offer to the president of the polish senate to mediate in the dialogue between the government and the opposition. all political parties in georgia - both governmental and opposition - must do everything in their power to improve the atmosphere before the elections and to establish a genuine democratic political culture. finally, let me stress the crucial importance of a free and independent media in building democracy. equal access to the media for government and opposition representatives is one of the essential conditions for free and fair elections. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude with this and i would be happy to hear your views on the situation in georgia.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i fully share the views expressed by the eu presidency about the seriousness of the latest development in georgia. the mission of the eu political directors tomorrow will indeed be a very useful opportunity to confirm our wholehearted support for georgia at this very difficult juncture. tensions around the unresolved conflicts in abkhazia and south ossetia are, unfortunately, escalating rapidly. the recent decisions taken by the russian federation on strengthening links with the separatist de facto authorities in abkhazia and south ossetia represent an erosion of georgia’s territorial integrity, and these measures have increased expectations of future recognition in the two separatist regions and, therefore, undermine efforts to find a peaceful solution. the commission therefore calls on the russian federation to withdraw these decisions – or, at least, not to implement them, as the european union has also clearly expressed in its statement. we should concentrate now on how to stop this chess game, where each move provokes a counter-move. any proposed action should be measured against its capacity to lower the temperature. i say this not least because a further deterioration of the present crisis could jeopardise stability not only in georgia, but in the whole southern caucasus. we have welcomed president saakashvili’s proposed new peace initiative for abkhazia. i think it is important that this is developed in a way that constitutes a basis for a constructive dialogue with all parties involved. that means, in the first instance, with the abkhaz themselves, who i hope will be ready – and i hope also will be allowed – to engage in the diplomatic process. russia remains an essential actor if we want to reach a sustainable, peaceful settlement on these conflicts. the commission has taken note of georgia’s request to the european union to adopt steps that could induce russia to revise its present policy. i think we will look at further steps, but we need to beware taking symbolic actions that might not improve the chances for a solution of the crisis and, indeed, might lead to further tensions. that said, i think that an overall revision of peace mechanisms, as for instance suggested by the un secretary general in his latest report on abkhazia, could help bring forward the peaceful settlement of these conflicts, if this is supported by all parties. we should all stand ready to play a more active role in supporting these efforts. let us not forget that, in the past four years, georgia has made tremendous efforts to move forward toward a democratic and market-oriented society. we have just issued a progress report which shows that, while georgia still has much work to do, it has made substantial progress in several areas of the enp action plan. these achievements confirm georgia’s commitment to strengthening its ties with the european union under the enp. as regards the forthcoming legislative elections, we have mobilised a eur 2 million electoral assistance package (which has already been quoted), with a view to ensuring the conditions for a fairer and more transparent electoral process. we are also providing substantial eu assistance, supporting rehabilitation programmes which benefit the population in the conflict zones beyond ethnic divides. the commission will therefore continue to support georgia in its political, social and economic development, convinced that the country has the strength to overcome the challenges it faces.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, here in parliament we should be very seriously concerned about the recent escalation of an already tense situation in georgia. the european parliament should show firm commitment and support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia. the recent decision of the russian government to establish official ties and to bolster the russian military presence in abkhazia goes beyond and violates existing agreements and the territorial integrity of georgia. it further increases the tensions in the conflict zones and thus undermines the international peace efforts. what could be done to restore peace and stability in the whole region? here are some possible recommendations for this house with a view to our resolution. firstly, we should call on russia and georgia to show restraint, to continue to pursue peaceful solutions to the conflict and to allow for eu mediation. secondly, we should call on the russian government to reverse its decision to establish official ties with abkhazia and south ossetia and to withdraw russian forces from abkhazia. thirdly, we should call on the un security council to boost the mandate and resources of unamig to progressively establish truly independent international peacekeeping forces. we should recommend that the eu council and commission take a more active role and engage in conflict resolution, possibly by considering an esdp mission. we should support an incident-assessment mission to be sent as soon as possible by the european union. lastly, we should call on the international community to join eu efforts aimed at stabilising the situation and resolving the conflict in the region. this conflict is a challenge for the eu’s common european foreign and security policy. it will offer the eu the opportunity to act in line with its ambitions, underpinning the lisbon treaty’s cfsp provisions – to be not only a payer in conflict situations, but also a player.
on behalf of the uen group. minister, commissioner, i have to tell you something. we are breaking the european union's rather compromising silence on georgia at the last minute. the conflict in abkhazia and ossetia is not about the rights of the russian minority. despite the ethnic cleansing of 300,000 georgians in the region since 1993, democratic georgia has offered abkhazia autonomy for years. nevertheless, russia has recently taken steps towards recognizing the puppet administration in abkhazia, strengthening trade ties and extending the reach of russian family, civil, and commercial law to the area. the question we have to ask ourselves today is very important: did we encourage russia to do this by opposing georgia's membership in nato? this question should be asked in berlin in particular. this conflict is about geopolitics. the credibility of the european union and peace in the region are at stake. if we can't stop russia from dismantling one of our key partners in the caucasus, no one will be counting on us in the future. we should, together with the united states, bring the security council and the osce to a meeting on this issue. in addition to strong diplomatic support for georgia's integrity, we should demand that russian troops be replaced by forces operating under a un or osce mandate. it would be worth sending a parliamentary mission to tbilisi. if we fail, russia's neo-imperialist policies could push the entire region to the brink of war.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the european parliament has repeatedly addressed the issue of democracy building in georgia. we have looked with admiration at the efforts of georgian society to build a liberal democracy, a strong civil society, free elections. today too, the european parliament stands unambiguously on the side of democracy in georgia and on the side of the territorial integrity of the georgian state. yesterday we heard the speech of the deputy prime minister of georgia giorgi baramidze. these issues, which prime minister baramidze described from a georgian perspective, show how serious the situation is in the caucasus at the moment. of course, we appeal to all sides, both georgia and russia, to exercise caution. however, it must be clear that in europe there is no acceptance of russia's neo-imperial policy towards the caucasus countries, including georgia. russia has a special responsibility to guarantee peace and security in the region. at the same time, we want to say that what is at stake in the international situation in georgia is georgian democracy. we therefore call on the georgian authorities and georgian society to further strengthen liberal democracy, civil society and the rule of law in georgia. what the commissioner said about the european union's assistance for the forthcoming elections in georgia is the action that should characterize european policy in the caucasus: defence of georgia, admiration for the building of democracy in that country, disapproval of the violation of the territorial integrity of that country. we appeal to russia, to georgia for stability, peace and security in this region.
madam president, many issues have been raised in today’s debate – visas, free-trade agreements and the forthcoming elections. all matters worth discussing. however, the key issue we must focus on is the volatile security situation. we must give georgia our support at a moment when the country fears further provocation, and even aggression, by russia. let us not dilute today’s message. firstly, there will be no tolerance of provocative acts by russia. secondly, the territorial integrity of georgia cannot be undermined in any way and, thirdly, peacekeepers in the potential breakaway regions must be neutral and trusted by all sides. russian troops clearly do not meet these criteria. these are the issues we need to address, and we need to address them now. (applause)
madam president! russia, under the guise of fighting terrorism, has already murdered over half the chechen people. right now it's affecting human rights violations in belarus, because that's the obvious effect. what's happening in georgia is another threat. it is simply that these matters cannot be considered russia's internal affairs, and that russia's military actions cannot be allowed to cause dependency and war drama in countries that were once russian. russia has no respect for other people's freedom. i wish it weren't, but it's been going on for centuries, and it's a big drama. the european union cannot treat these matters as if they were just a matter of diplomatic, delicate negotiations. we just have to take this very seriously.
russia has been trying to spin a certain spiral of fear about georgia for a long time. the downing of an unmanned aerial vehicle by a russian aircraft is proof of this, because there is no doubt that it was not an abkhaz plane. and in the video that we can see, it's very clear that the mig-29 is coming in, and it's firing a missile, and it's hitting this very flying camera. recently, two more were reportedly shot down by abkhaz security forces. the question arises: how can it be that abkhaz forces have such means, contrary to the agreement reached in moscow in 1994? the georgian government's appeal to the un high representative in georgia to open an investigation into the matter and clarify the matter should be supported. we can't let the russians drive this fear spiral any further.
madam president! the european union should firstly correct the visa mistake, secondly, it should not be aggressive but firm in calling out the facts that russia is committing in georgia and thirdly, it should help georgia to solve its internal problems. speaking of georgia, i would like to address and appeal to russia: the new russian presidency could be marked by a new style of the big class on the scale of the big actor. instead of thinking imperial, let russia start thinking cooperative. the sense of national pride will not be harmed. and second, a great, proud and rich russia can afford to respect the integral territory of georgia, just as we respect the rather strange russian territory in the kaliningrad region.
the chairman of the council. - i have listened very carefully to the statements made in this debate and i am very grateful for them. first of all, i would like to refer to the statement by mr wiersme, who said that the european union could play an important role in de-escalating the current situation. i agree with that and the slovenian presidency and, i believe, the council will also be working towards that. in what way? first of all, certainly within the framework of the united nations, and although we can agree with the assessment of the honourable member, mrs isler béguin, that progress within the framework of the united nations is modest and that we certainly cannot be satisfied with it, the framework of the united nations nevertheless remains one of the fundamental frameworks for dealing with this issue. in my opening remarks i referred to united nations security council resolution 1808, which reaffirms the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia within its internationally recognised borders. this security council resolution was recently adopted on 15 april and here i would like to point out or emphasise, particularly in relation to mr evans' statement, to emphasise the fact that without the consent of the russian federation this resolution would not have been, would not have been adopted. so the united nations remains an important framework for addressing this problem. the organization for security and cooperation in europe is also an important framework, and here too the european union will continue to make efforts and, we hope, strengthen its efforts to de-escalate. de-escalation, de-escalation, de-escalation is the absolute priority for the european union at this time. this is the first priority. at the same time, we will seek to strengthen efforts to find a lasting and peaceful solution to this issue. not only in the multilateral fora i have mentioned, but also in our bilateral contacts, both with the russian federation and with georgia. the presidency is active here, and i have already mentioned that this issue was the subject of discussions at the eu-russian federation troika recently, at ministerial level. just today, the president of the general affairs and external relations council, minister rupel, met in strasbourg with the deputy prime minister of georgia, baramidze, to discuss this issue. one of the opportunities for future discussions on this issue will certainly be the european union-russian federation summit next month, to name just a few. i would stress that the european union is active. the question of georgia is quite regularly on the agenda of the general affairs and external relations council; we have a european union special representative for georgia, for the caucasus. it is possible that in the next few days, there will be a special visit of the political director to the country and so on. i would stress that the european union will continue to strongly support georgia in its efforts to find a peaceful solution to the open conflicts in both abkhazia and south ossetia. i would stress that this will be a constant theme of our dialogue with the russian federation, in which we will always stress the need for a peaceful solution and call for or encourage a constructive approach by the russian federation to the peaceful solution initiative recently presented by president saakashvili. the efforts of the eusr will certainly be continued, and the efforts of the european commission will certainly be continued and strengthened, in particular with regard to the implementation of the confidence-building measures package. we greatly appreciate the support of georgia for this package. in short, i can assure you on behalf of the presidency that we will be committed to continuing and strengthening the council's efforts to, firstly, de-escalate and, secondly, to strengthen efforts to find a peaceful and lasting solution to this issue.
member of the commission. − madam president, this has been an important debate at an important and difficult moment. before i respond to some of your ideas, questions and opinions, may i say that i also very much welcome the report of the eu-georgia parliamentary cooperation committee, which agrees with much of our analysis in the commission and shares common ground with our progress reports. it is very clear that we must support georgia but, as some of you have said, good friends also have to take good advice, and i think the first thing that we have to tell them is: dialogue is the only way forward. if georgia is being provoked, it is essential that it does not fall into the trap of reacting aggressively. as many of you have pointed out, it is more important than ever for georgia to strengthen its democracy and hold free and fair elections, and we will see what happens on 21 may. but it is also clear that there is no question of the european union standing idly by at this very difficult moment. we will certainly continue to urge russia to revoke its recent decision and indeed, as our council president has said, we have just had the troika meeting of the eu-russia permanent partnership council – i myself was present – where this question was tackled in a quite open way. then of course there will be the june summit and we will use every opportunity to make this point very clear. we will also continue to support georgia in its efforts to grow stronger. i repeat that we will also support any initiative that promotes dialogue between all the parties. i agree, as i said earlier, with proposals to revise the peace mechanisms, if an agreement can be reached on this with all partners: this is of course the difficulty, again. with regard to visa facilitation, we have begun talks in the council. more and more member states now see the urgency of visa facilitation and readmission. we do not yet have the unanimity that is absolutely necessary, but maybe this is now moving in the right direction. with regards to refugees, we have already provided significant humanitarian assistance to the idps who had to leave abkhazia and south ossetia. this year we are additionally supporting the implementation of a new georgian law on the reintegration of idps away from their miserable temporary shelters, which involves a eur 2 million programme. but of course we will continue to be active, because this is one of the things that we must constantly keep our eyes on. to conclude, we will indeed do all we practically can to bring about a return to stability in georgia and will of course also give unfailing support to georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.
in writing. in recent days and weeks, the russian authorities have taken provocative actions towards georgia, leading to a conflict that threatens war. a few days ago, russia increased its military contingent in abkhazia from two to three thousand soldiers without any agreement with georgia, and appointed a high-ranking russian officer as the chief of staff of the so-called abkhazian army. this is a clear sign of russian preparations for military aggression against georgia. i call for support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia and i call on the russian authorities to stop the escalation of this conflict and to review the military actions taken. the kremlin's confrontational rhetoric and provocations prevent a peaceful resolution of this situation and threaten to destabilise the entire region. the russian so-called peacekeeping forces should be replaced immediately by independent peacekeeping forces under eu or un command. the eu's role should be to 'disarm' this conflict and to stop russia's neo-imperialist drive towards the former republics of the south caucasus. the eu should show its full support for georgia, systematically step up cooperation and introduce visa facilitation for georgians without delay.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the european union and the united states together account for 60% of world gdp and 40% of world trade. transatlantic trade services and audit flows amount to $3 billion a day. the transatlantic economic relationship creates jobs for 14 million people. that's the scale we're talking about here today. in april 2007, the european union and the united states signed a framework agreement to deepen transatlantic economic integration between the united states of america and the european union. this agreement is based on the recognition that the european union and the united states are not only each other's most important economic partners, but also that we share common interests, common challenges and a wide range of shared values, such as a commitment to free trade and openness to investment, a commitment to free and undistorted competition, respect for property rights, including intellectual property rights, and effective protection of consumers, workers and the environment. the transatlantic agreement is a confirmation of our shared commitment to intensifying economic cooperation and accelerating the removal of transatlantic trade and investment barriers. to make this cooperation work, we have created the transatlantic economic council. the aim of his work is to remove barriers to a truly transatlantic market. but at the same time we are dealing with common challenges in our relations with other countries. the transatlantic economic council has already proved to be a valuable forum for strategic dialogue on our respective approaches to china and to sovereign wealth funds. the safety of imported products and the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries are also concrete examples of practical cooperation on specific issues. the biggest obstacle to trade between our advanced economies is the disparity in rules and regulatory approaches. the so-called tariff barriers have been virtually eliminated in eight major rounds of world trade over the last 60 years. non-tariff barriers, such as regulations and administrative procedures which unnecessarily restrict trade, are now the main obstacle. these barriers are often less visible and more complex, and they can be very politically sensitive, as they are very often the result of deliberate domestic policy decisions. the good news for us is that the united states, which in the past has always been very skeptical of regulations that it did not make itself, is now becoming increasingly open to international cooperation, especially with us, on regulatory issues. the decision by the us securities and exchange commission to accept the international accounting standard ifrs was a historic step forward. as the european chairman of the transatlantic economic council, i have already learned an important lesson. transatlantic cooperation is not possible without political leadership. it is one thing to agree that a market without barriers to trade is desirable. but once you start to look at the obstacles in concrete terms, you realise that economic integration requires a lot of hard work, patience, perseverance and political leadership. the same experience we had when it came to the creation of the european single market. i would remind you that our european project for a single market was preceded by 30 years of economic and political integration. changing existing rules and procedures is not always popular. there are always groups that use the status quo to keep their privileges. some group in their own country always feels threatened. if we give in to this pressure and lose sight of the benefits for the european economy as a whole, we will end up isolating ourselves and sticking our heads in the sand. i would also like to point out today that economic integration and the reduction of the regulatory burden are not only hampered by existing rules, but that new legislative initiatives can also undermine the desired objective. an example of this is the us congress act which requires that all cargo leaving our ports for the us be 100% screened beforehand. this is something which will of course be discussed in the context of the transatlantic economic council. we have the next meeting of this transatlantic economic council next tuesday here in brussels. it will be the first meeting on european soil. the american side is coming with a large number of government members. we have a broad agenda that will show progress in many areas. as at the first meeting in washington, we will continue our strategic dialogue. the subjects for discussion are the integration of russia into the world economy, how we are to react to the growing dangers of protectionism and, above all, what consequences we must draw together from the crisis on the financial markets. so you see, it's a very broad spectrum. the whole process involves the parliamentary parties on both sides. i am very grateful to the european parliament for the strong interest it is showing in this process. i am very grateful to the european parliament for the close contacts it has with the congress and i must tell you that you have a very important role to play here as parliamentarians, because much of what we want and can agree on politically must ultimately be formalised by legislation. we need the approval of the congress on the american side and your approval on the european side. this is why the legislative dialogues are part of the whole project. in conclusion, let me point out that the new approach is very different from all previous efforts, which have all failed to a greater or lesser extent, and both sides are convinced that this is the most promising approach to date to achieve real and significant relief. it is a question of having permanent political control and a clear allocation of responsibility for the initiatives which have been taken in the past but which have unfortunately not led to the desired result. it is therefore very important to make it clear that this is not a short-term cooperation but a long-term project. the two sides also fully agree that neither the lifetime of the current american administration, whose term of office ends in january next year, nor the lifetime of the current european commission, whose term of office ends in november next year, should play a role in the medium and long-term planning of this work. we are determined to ensure that this project will extend beyond legislatures and beyond terms in office.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. a word of appreciation to commissioner verheugen for taking up and engaging in such an important cause. the 19th century was the century of european expansion, the 20th century was the century of american domination, the 21st century is the century of china, of southeast asia. in order to avoid a repetition of the conflicts that accompanied the economic transformations of the 19th and 20th centuries, and in view of the rapidity of economic processes in recent decades, it is necessary to foresee potential areas of conflict and methods of avoiding conflicts. we need to talk about the three most important threats today. these are: inequality in access to information and the dissemination of information, inequality in access to raw materials and, third, inequality in access to scientific research and technology. this is where the role and importance of the transatlantic council comes into play. crises must be recognised, foreseen and prevented, and economic freedom cannot mean economic anarchy. neither europe towards the us nor the us towards europe should show disdain or condescension. and the united states and europe, whose advantage in access to information is dominant, should act to prevent and avoid the deepening of development disparities.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i am pleased that there is political will on both sides of the atlantic for the great partnership between our two continents. i would like to extend my thanks to the commission for their work on building this mutually beneficial structure. i am glad that this house, despite there being some communists among us, supports the efforts to lower barriers to trade and investment between the united states and the european union and awaits the establishment of a transatlantic market by 2015. there were great hopes across europe that the new president of france would bring economic reform to a country stuck in socialist hibernation. yet it seems that he is more concerned with a retired fashion model than liberalising the economy. there were high expectations that the new chancellor would reform germany’s outdated social security model, while at the same time sending a fresh impulse to the rest of europe during the german presidency. the result: nada, zero, zip. what was once the engine of european integration is today a stumbling block to a liberal european economy. the jargon of ‘social europe’ or a ‘europe of solidarity’ is misleading to our people. it is high time that we set to work on reducing economic barriers at home and building a thorough partnership with the united states. that is the only way we can pursue a competitive europe.
madam president, the recent subprime mortgage crisis in the united states has sent shock waves through europe’s largest financial institutions, showing us all how closely the us and european markets are interconnected. the ensuing reluctance of bankers to lend – even to themselves – has resulted in a credit crisis which will have a negative impact on economic growth and on the prosperity of businesses and households alike, whether they are in paris, texas, or paris, france. many governments have failed ordinary citizens. they have been ineffective regulators of financial markets, where increasingly novel financial instruments have been allowed to circulate, like in a child’s game of pass-the-parcel. but when the music finally stopped, no one wanted to be holding this parcel, which was just a bundle of bad debts. the report very rightly stresses the need for strengthening cooperation between supervisory authorities on both sides of the atlantic, especially at a time when governments will focus on short-term salvage operations, bailing out or propping up bankers and individual creditors. governments must be careful not to give the wrong signal to the unscrupulous and foolhardy. via their financial market regulators they must demand transparent accounting methods and prudent lending criteria from financial institutions. a concerted effort by both us and european parties will, hopefully, allow us to avoid such crises in the future.
madam president! the transatlantic economic council, which was set up before the year, is a good idea for deepening transatlantic cooperation in the economic dimension. because we cannot forget that the united states is our biggest trading partner. i am convinced that the effective identification and subsequent removal of existing barriers will contribute more to economic growth. i hope that both sides will soon develop a detailed plan that will indicate the actions that need to be taken by the individual sectors to make the transatlantic market a success. ladies and gentlemen, cooperation within the transatlantic economic council covers issues of importance to the functioning of the common market. i am particularly pleased that the protection of intellectual property rights has been one of the priorities of this cooperation. i would like to recall that last year the european commission published a communication on improving the patent system in europe, in which it seeks to revive the debate on the community patent. i look forward to the communication on the strategy for intellectual property rights this year. transatlantic cooperation is particularly important in this respect. our economies are largely knowledge-based. that is why the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights is so important. however, the interests of our economies require that the solutions we promote be respected by third countries. without their understanding and involvement, our efforts will not produce the desired results. therefore, transatlantic cooperation must be part of the transatlantic cooperation to improve the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries. i hope that the transatlantic economic council will soon publish a progress report on cooperation in the area of intellectual property rights enforcement, including actions to be taken in the future to strengthen cooperation in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the transatlantic economic council is an institution that is designed to create better solutions for economic cooperation and increased trade between the union and the us. it is also the place where the foundations of the single common market are laid. let us remember that we are approaching a time when we should collectively propose to other regions of the world a change in the rules and principles of the world economy and global trade. an important area of our cooperation is monitoring financial markets and adopting transparent rules to avoid the dangers we have experienced as a result of the mortgage crisis, which has led to turmoil in the world food markets.
on behalf of the uen group. as a member of the nszz solidarity i speak now also on behalf of my fellow trade unionists. it's the employers who are holding back on dialogue. dialogue is in the interests of trade unions and the working class. directive 94/45 is long outdated, it is not harmonised with other european union directives, in particular with directive 2001/86 on the european company and with directive 2002/14 establishing a framework for information and consultation in the european community. the role of trade unions in the creation and functioning of european works councils is also not well defined. the procedure for creating them is complicated, and therefore there is only one third of the potential. the lack of a precise definition of information and consultation causes serious difficulties for workers in accessing information, especially during privatisation or takeover of a workplace. we expect a rapid amendment of this legal act.
mr. chairman, please! the european works council directive dates from 1994. since then, new challenges have emerged in a globalised economy and new member states have joined the union, including my own, poland. it is therefore necessary to amend this directive. the lisbon treaty, which places a high priority on social dialogue, also requires a change. this directive needs to be amended because it is also required by the charter of fundamental rights, which states explicitly in article 27: 'workers or their representatives shall be guaranteed ... information and consultation ...'. the new directive should therefore improve existing mechanisms and introduce new ones that are necessary. those that will help to alleviate the stresses of organisational change, such as mergers and divisions, collective redundancies and, above all, the relocation of businesses and workplaces within the union. i am sure that earlier information about such unpopular intentions will help to ease tensions in the labour market and unite the european trade union movement.
member of the commission. - unfortunately, there's not much time to respond in detail, but still, let me touch on some of the most important issues. the first is the role of the social partners: i have to say with all seriousness and firmness that the social partners are in the best position to be directly involved in such change. on the other hand, the commission has its own right, the right of initiative, and of course the proposal for a directive was not presented as a game, it was presented on the basis of an assessment of the current situation, of current experience. and therefore the commission will of course not be blocked by the actions of the social partners. i am of the opinion that it is right, and it was right, in any case, to turn once more to the social partners. the debate raised the idea that it is possible or that by submitting a proposal one of the social partners is punished. i have to say that in general, in the rule of law and in the basic concept of legal access, if someone uses their right, they should not be punished for it. in other words, if one social partner has exercised his right and has not acted, this must have no bearing on the further development of the case. i also have to say that in the past it was the employers who broke off the negotiations and did not negotiate. so from this point of view, i think the use of the social partners' rights is a fact that must be taken into account, the consequences that follow from this must be taken into account, but it cannot be taken into account any value position on the discussion of the text in question. the commission's aim is to improve the works council directive, to improve it during this parliament's term of office, and of course all the deadlines follow from this, and our aim is to make the directive more effective, more efficient, and however much the concept of balance has been criticised, i am firmly convinced that a balanced approach is essential to tackling such a complex text. the debate i have heard here has shown the commitment of all the political forces represented in parliament, has shown the complexity of the directive and its important implications even in this small format, and i therefore look forward to further cooperation with parliament, the european council and the social partners in preparing the next process for improving this directive.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: - the annual report by marco cappato, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on human rights in the world in 2007 and on eu policy in this area (2007/2274 (ini)) (a6-0153/2008) and - the report by josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra and véronique de keyser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu election observation missions: objectives, practice and future challenges (2007/2217 (ini)) (a6-0138/2008).
the chairman of the council. - before i begin my opening remarks, allow me to make one procedural remark. at the beginning of the sitting today, it was said that one of the items on the agenda had been postponed due to the council's inability to attend. given the late hour at which we began to consider this item, it is clear that the reasons for the postponement lie elsewhere, notably in the overcrowded agenda of today's sitting. the presidency has been willing to cooperate on all the items that were planned, and we will also be cooperating on the item that starts with such a delay, mainly because we want to illustrate the importance that the council and the presidency attach to this subject. my opening speech will be a little longer than the five minutes i was supposed to give. i ask for your understanding, and i will try to make up for it in the final implementation after the debate. so ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to welcome the report by mr cappato on the european union's annual report on human rights in the world. i would like to stress that we see the role of parliament in promoting respect for human rights throughout the world as essential and your critical perspective as an important contribution to the european union's efforts in this vital area. the council will certainly examine that report in detail. but i would like to respond today to some of the key elements of your report, mr. cappato. above all, there is no doubt that your report addresses most of the fundamental challenges facing the european union in the field of human rights. we are particularly pleased that the activities of the european parliament have found their place in the human rights report. the chapter devoted to this issue in the report recognizes the important role of this esteemed body in promoting respect for human rights in the world. the council will continue to work closely with parliament, in particular with the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights. we believe that the annual reports will continue to reflect the european parliament's efforts in this area. as regards the call in the report for enhanced cooperation between the council of europe and the european union, we agree that there are still many untapped opportunities in this area, but the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the council of europe and the european union is certainly important. the european union respects the efforts of the council of europe in the field of the promotion and protection of human rights. the european union also remains a strong advocate of the united nations system for the protection of human rights. we actively support the independence of the office of the high commissioner for human rights and work towards the human rights council becoming an effective body to address serious human rights violations everywhere in the world. the recent seventh session of the human rights council, held in geneva, was a success for the european union. both of our main initiatives - the renewal of the mandates of the special rapporteurs on the situation of human rights in burma and myanmar respectively and in north korea - were adopted. all the initiatives of the individual member states of the european union were also adopted. we also sought to extend the mandate of the independent expert for the democratic republic of congo, but unfortunately this did not succeed. the positive achievements of this session include the extension of the mandates of human rights defenders and those against violence against women. in april, a new mechanism, the general periodic review, was launched within the human rights council. the european union considers it one of the key mechanisms for the protection and promotion of human rights. it is still a little too early to assess the functioning of this mechanism, but first impressions suggest that countries are taking it seriously and with all responsibility. concerns are being expressed about some attempts by some member states of the human rights council to water down this mechanism. in addition to intensive work within the united nations, attention has been paid over the years to the integration of human rights into other segments of foreign policy. let me confirm that this is high on the slovenian presidency's priority list. the presidency also supports all the efforts of the personal representative of the high representative of the union for human rights, ms riina kionke, in this area. let me now turn to the part of the report which calls for an update of the guidelines on human rights. three of the five thematic guidelines will be updated during our presidency. the council on foreign relations last week adopted updated guidelines on torture. the updating of the death penalty guidelines is also expected to be completed next month, coinciding with the 10th anniversary of the guidelines. the presidency is also finalising the update of the guidelines on children in armed conflict. in the latter respect, it should be noted that the general affairs and external relations council is also expected to endorse this month the biennial review of the implementation of the list for the integration of the protection of the rights of children in armed conflict into european security and defence policy. as regards the guidelines on human rights defenders, your report calls on member states to consider the possibility of issuing visas for these groups of people. in april, the presidency organised a debate within the council of the european union working party on human rights cohom with the aim of exchanging information on visa issuance models. this debate appears to have prompted a number of member states to explore, together with the relevant consular services, possibilities to assist human rights defenders, including in the form of issuing short-stay visas. at the same time, members supported the inclusion of a reference to this issue in the new common visa code. the key to the guidelines is, of course, their implementation in practice, i.e. monitoring the human rights situation and the responses to violations in the form of demarches, statements and the inclusion of the issue in the dialogue. respect for human rights worldwide is certainly one of the important objectives of the european common foreign and security policy. through instruments such as joint actions and strategies, demarches and crisis management operations, the union has sought to strengthen the democratic process and improve the human rights situation in many countries. in this respect, human rights dialogues are of particular importance. the union is in talks with iran, uzbekistan, the russian federation, the african union and china. in the framework of cooperation agreements which also contain human rights provisions, dialogue is also conducted with other third countries. i should like to mention that the next opportunity for discussion on the situation in china will be next week, on 15 may, when the next round of the regular dialogue on human rights between the european union and china will take place in slovenia. i would also point to the consultation with the russian federation which took place in april. ladies and gentlemen, let me also touch on cooperation between the various institutions of the european union in the protection and promotion of human rights. in the coming days, the council is expected to prepare a reply to the letter from the president of the european parliament, mr pöttering, on interinstitutional cooperation in the human rights dialogue. i can assure you that the political will to strengthen these relations, at least on the part of the presidency, is considerable. finally, i would like to welcome the report by the honourable members de keyser and salafranc sánchez-neyra on election observation missions. election observation missions are a very important element of the european union's policy to promote democracy. they shall contribute to strengthening democratic dialogue, the democratic electoral process and help build democratic institutions. this year there were elections in several countries and there will be more; the council is and will be closely monitoring them. in an effort to strengthen the links between the european parliament and the council in the field of election observation missions, we have already exchanged views with the members who led the observation missions. their reports are an important contribution to policy-making in this area and i believe that today's debate will be very useful in this respect.
i wanted to draw the attention of the minister, who expressed surprise that the debates were being delayed. well, this is what happens when speakers use more time than was provided. the plan we agreed on earlier was for the minister to speak for five minutes. he spoke for 10 minutes, so we're five minutes late. so this is what happens, half a minute here, five minutes there, and these delays add up, so let's all feel responsible for sticking to this schedule.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to take a moment to reflect on the relationship between human rights and democracy. well, it is widely believed that only in a democracy can these rights be fully respected. democracy, on the other hand, is identified with majority rule, which is exercised through the electoral system. that was greek democracy, the majority decided everything. but in this system, by majority vote, socrates was sentenced to death. the will of the majority does not always have to be the guarantor of civil liberties. and so in the 19th century, there was a fear in political thought, which is not well understood today, of extending the right to vote to a wider group of people, which is associated with the assumption that only an enlightened minority is capable of respecting freedom and human rights. today, we often see elections, even fairly honest ones, that lead to or sustain dictatorial rule. just think of countries like belarus and the hamas government in gaza. it is also worth recalling the famous response of egyptian president mubarak, who, in response to the call for a fair election, said that the result would include radical, fundamentalist muslim groups in the government of egypt. so, of course, elections are incredibly important, and they need to be monitored for that. but who knows, in many countries, the rule of law and a truly independent judiciary may be more important than elections today. otherwise, we could have a democracy that is nothing more than a dictatorship based on electoral mandate. a dictatorship in which there are no independent institutions to create a complex system of checks and balances and safeguards for the citizen against the arbitrariness of the authorities. because democracy must be liberal democracy, not dictatorship by the majority. so we should continue to observe elections, but we cannot limit ourselves to this in the fight to build a true liberal democracy. therefore, more attention should be paid to building a democratic culture and civil society institutions. such actions cannot be supported by autocratic authorities. we must therefore develop better and more flexible aid mechanisms than those in place today, and extend our support to help these brave people who are facing numerous reprisals for their work.
mr. chairman, please! i think that only the bias of the left, and perhaps also of the rapporteur, can explain the lack of sufficient provisions on religious freedom in the world in the human rights report. freedom of religion and practice is one of the most important human rights. it has been reaffirmed in article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights, article 16 of the osce final act and article 9 of the european convention. this is a massive violation of freedom. the most persecuted religious group in the world are christians, who cannot practice their faith freely in china, saudi arabia or iran. in iraq, assyrian christians who have lived in the land for hundreds of years are forced to flee their homes. in russia, the work of non-russian orthodox religious communities is becoming increasingly difficult. unfortunately, we won't know that from mr. cappato's report. such censorship is a direct way to lose the only strength of the human rights system, a way to lose credibility.
if you were expecting the speech of mr georgius georgiou of the independence and democracy group, you will be disappointed because your mp is not in the room.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the fact that elections are observed by recognised institutions improves the electoral atmosphere and sometimes even helps to crystallise significant changes, as in the orange revolution in kiev. observation is, of course, an expensive initiative, but it is justified because it teaches democracy on the one hand, and on the other hand it helps us understand the political consciousness and soul of a nation. to make this mission efficient and cost-effective, i'd like to make a few suggestions. first, to send people who speak the local language. if this is not possible, the observer group may be composed in such a way that they use only one language (french or english) into which they are translated, which in turn entails the hiring of interpreters to translate into that language. where possible, it is worth recruiting volunteers from other countries, for example students or members of ngos and student organisations. why would you do that? the more observers, the better for the cause. even when we are sometimes told, ironically, in africa, for example, that we don't need colonizers anymore, it turns out that contact and interaction with voters leads to their acceptance of this mission and, at the same time, to this form of democratic support. as regards human rights, the ppe-de will take action to ensure that people in particularly vulnerable areas of the world are aware of their rights and are able to fight for them. this is a place where you have to be constantly educated. there's no other way. and i'll conclude by saying that without basic human rights and values, democracy can be a flawed, if not caricatured, way of governing.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the debate we are having today concerns some of the most important issues facing the european union, and certainly the european parliament: the respect of human rights in the world, the monitoring of the state of democracy in the world today. both reports seem to me to be very important achievements of the european parliament. i would like to congratulate mr marco cappato and members véronique de keyser and josé ignacio salafranca on the preparation of these reports. in such situations, we are always faced with the following dilemma: how to defend human rights, how to speak about the rule of law that we want to show in other regions of the world, and at the same time conduct an effective policy of the european union? this is the art of european union policy today: to balance these two principles, to show the human rights horizon and at the same time the effectiveness of our policy. this question is facing us today dramatically in burma, in china, in the caucasus, in many, many regions of the world. i think both reports show that they try very well to balance these two challenges that the european union is facing. and one more thing: i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner benita ferrero-waldner for her reply on the human rights situation in mongolia. my information turned out to be correct. mongolia is an example of a country where we are indeed seeing a positive trend in human rights. mongolia is an example of how you can make a positive difference in this regard. it is a very important country in asia that can become an example of the european union for other countries in central asia.
mr president, i welcome the excellent report on the european parliament’s role in election observations. election observations in new and developing democracies are rightly seen as a priority of the eu and a demonstration of its commitment to these nations. however, i see a further role for our member states, for our so-called ‘mature democracies’, and this is leading by example. i recall a heated debate in poland prior to the general election of october 2007. the osce wanted to deploy a small team of observers. this request was initially met with a negative reaction by many politicians who saw this as an affront and insult. not so. observation missions have been deployed to many old european democracies. the french presidential election is just one example. ultimately, observers were made welcome in poland. when convincing reluctant emerging or new democracies to allow international observers in, we must show that we ourselves allow others to scrutinise us. our electoral processes are not without problems. the british have documented cases of electoral fraud in postal voting and we all face new challenges such as internet voting in future. so let us be open to scrutiny, for such openness can only increase our own credibility.
i'm not going to let you down. in congratulating the three rapporteurs, i would like to stress the need to give absolute and unquestioning consideration to women's rights in all spheres of public life, in social relations and in purely human private relations. and not just in theory, but in practice. this requires, first and foremost, the elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls. but that's not enough. let's look at europe. the european union prepares a number of resolutions calling on member states to promote equality between women and men, and then monitors whether and how these principles are being implemented. but i am very curious, commissioner, whether the principle of gender mainstreaming will work in the internal structures of the european union. for example, will the new eu institutions and the four highest posts - the president of the union, the presidents of the commission and parliament and the union's representative for foreign policy - have a record that reflects this? ladies and gentlemen, this will be a moment of truth, illustrating whether our true approach to women's rights is really what we're talking about.
in writing. in the recently signed treaty of lisbon, the member states of the european union committed themselves to strengthening freedom and human rights and the democratic order in the world. this is without doubt the main objective of the union's foreign policy. however, the behaviour of president barroso and other commissioners during their recent visit to the people's republic of china and their assertion that the tibet issue is an internal chinese matter is a clear contradiction of the idea that was not only written in lisbon, but that we are trying to put into practice every day - especially here in the european parliament - the idea of putting human rights first. in this light, it is difficult to accept the fact that europe treats russia as a democratic partner, forgetting that this is a country whose authorities not only commit numerous violations, but also openly mock our noble ideas. why do we turn a blind eye to the ongoing extermination of chechens and the muzzling of the press in this country? perhaps because the union itself is not free from human rights failures. i regret that the right of parents and children to communicate in their own language is not respected in the federal republic of germany, as is the case with the current practice of the courts and youth offices. we have to answer the question, what is our purpose? are our resolutions and endless debates really about making the world better, or are they just a disguise for hypocrisy so that european politicians feel good about themselves?
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the review of the common agricultural policy and the first anti-crisis measures in the area of food management. unfortunately, the conclusions drawn and the decisions taken are not precise and are not sufficient. finally, it must be made clear that the common agricultural policy, as it stands, is leading to a loss of the european union's biological security and to a deepening of the world food crisis. restrictions on agricultural production, orders, prohibitions, quotas and quotas are leading to further reduction of food supplies, especially in the newly admitted countries. for example, before poland joined the european union, it produced twice as much food as it does now. she would still be producing a lot more today if she could. the conclusion is very simple: if there is a shortage of food, let those who have the means produce it, i.e. the new member states.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is an ageing society. demographic projections warn that the working-age population will be reduced by as much as 20 million by 2030. it is wrong that we have this situation, and therefore we must support growth, including natural growth. we have infertility problems, we have infertility problems. the world health organization has recognized infertility as a disease, and in vitro fertilization as one of the ways to treat it. the number of couples who use ivf as their only chance for procreation is increasing year by year. however, this method is expensive and not all countries will refund it. for many couples, these costs are a barrier to treatment. it is a paradox that while alcoholism, lung cancer and aids are treated in europe, infertility is not treated in all countries. i therefore draw attention to this fact and would like all citizens in the european union to have equal opportunities and to be guaranteed the possibility of in vitro treatment at the same level and on the basis of equal access to medical services.
mr. chairman, please! during the last plenary session of parliament we discussed the problems of rising food prices. this coincided with a serious discussion taking place in the context of the periodic review of the common agricultural policy. today, as we face the global food crisis, we must ask ourselves what is the cause of this state of affairs, where we have made mistakes. for more than thirty years the food market in the union has been relatively stable, and this has led to a certain lull in our vigilance. during this period, there was no proper monitoring of the processes taking place, nor was there any analysis of the relationship between the increase in food production and general economic development, the growing wealth of some societies and the increase in demand. the rapid economic development that has taken place in china and india has resulted in increased consumption and, therefore, in terms of population, a significant increase in the demand for food. there has also been a recent increase in production costs, in particular fuel and energy prices.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr ford's report stresses the importance of the european union's cooperation with the south-east asian nation states in the field of trade and economic exchanges. these countries are similar in size and population to the european union. these countries are important markets for the european union and export a number of important products to our market. these countries have different political structures and economic potential, as evidenced by the gdp per capita of $211 in burma and $31,400 in singapore. this creates some problems in asean-eu cooperation, as the rapporteur points out. the development of exchanges with the countries of the region requires the harmonisation of standards, particularly in the field of safety and health. economic and intellectual exchanges with asean countries can contribute to the growth of prosperity and peace in the region.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the following points. first, asean, which brings together ten countries with very different levels of development - from rich singapore to very poor burma, cambodia and laos - and a population of almost 500 million people, is the european union's fifth largest trading partner and offers the prospect of further economic and trade relations with the european union. secondly, a free trade agreement with asean countries is likely to bring more benefits to these countries than to the union. it is therefore necessary to conclude agreements with these countries in addition to this agreement, in which they commit themselves to respecting social, environmental and consumer protection standards. thirdly, and finally, only this approach offers a chance to bring about fair competition between asean companies and european companies. because only then will these companies include in their manufacturing costs the total costs of labour, environmental protection, consumer protection, and thus their product prices will reflect the full costs of manufacturing.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the commissioner on the negotiations and the report by mr ford. we're thinking about overcoming the obstacles and negotiating a good free trade agreement with the asean countries. we're highlighting the diversity of these countries. i just wanted to draw attention to one aspect of these negotiations that we did not know about four years ago. combating global warming has become a priority for the union, and the union itself has become a world leader in this field. we need to put a lot more emphasis on this aspect in our negotiations. here, too, there will be differences: we can't demand anything from the poorest countries, but we can demand that the fastest growing economies in the rich countries -- there we must achieve a community of interest on climate change. two eu countries, poland and denmark, are responsible for negotiating the post-kyoto agreement. it's going to be held in poznań this year and copenhagen next year. this also becomes the responsibility of the european union. if we fail to negotiate a common agreement by the end of 2009, we will be forced to change our ambitious policy on climate change. and we don't want that, because we can't fight these changes and these threats on a global scale alone. it is therefore important that we use every negotiation of the european union with third countries today to emphasise this aspect as well - a joint agreement to combat climate change on a global scale.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. both the european union and asean have great potential to take action to address global challenges such as climate change, energy security, the fight against terrorism, poverty and the malnutrition of millions of people in asia. the two organisations should therefore strengthen their dialogue and joint efforts to find solutions to these difficult issues, as well as to develop new forms of economic cooperation and to promote mutually beneficial trade. the european union should share its experience and achievements in the process of regional integration. but let us remember that the union should continue to demand respect for human rights and democracy, in addition to economic issues.
in writing. whereas the european community should give priority to the multilateral trading system established by the world trade organisation when it enters into negotiations with the association of southeast asian nations for a second generation free trade agreement; the important point is that asean is a very diverse area, with some countries being among the least developed countries, while others are among the highly developed countries. for this reason, these inequalities play a crucial role in the finalisation of the free trade agreement. a priority issue in the negotiation of free trade agreements is the signing of a partnership and cooperation agreement containing enforceable human rights clauses, as human rights and democracy are core values of the eu. attention should be paid to the impact of the agreement on small farmers in the region and to monitoring and ensuring that family and agriculture are strengthened. we also need to sensitize local governments to combat climate change by preventing deforestation and restoring tropical forests. trade in biofuels should therefore be limited to those biofuels that do not affect the balance of the environment. the importance of existing cooperation in the field of counter-terrorism and crisis management should also be emphasised. the eu-asean framework agreement can contribute to the future industrial growth of the union, but it should be based on the principle of transparency and on rules on competition and investment, intellectual property rights and state aid.
on paper. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. many economists point to the potential for south asia to become the future center of the world economy. this is a dangerous trend, especially for europe, which is losing a significant share of world trade. meanwhile, in europe, we're still tightening the rules for businesses and farmers and we're trading with countries that don't even respect copyright. can we talk about free and fair competition in this case? of course, we must strive to promote respect for human rights in asian countries, but we cannot do this by giving up european markets to goods produced under conditions which do not meet european competition standards. we are now focusing a lot on economic competition within the eu. it's our mistake and our stupidity. at that time, asia is conquering us economically, just as europe once conquered asia militarily and politically.
mr. chairman, please! deep-sea fishing, because of the specific nature of the resources and the marine ecosystem, creates a unique microclimate, a micro-world that reveals very clearly both the well-known advantages of fisheries policy and its still visible imperfections. ms. ramos's fascinating report and the discussion it has generated is a significant lesson in insight, another reason to remain humble in the face of the mysteries of the deep. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is able to compete with the other fleets in the world. listening to the dynamic parliamentary debates, one cannot help feeling that many research centres still use schematic, stereotyped methodological bases. there are three depth zones: up to 400 meters, between 400 and 1,000 meters and above 1,000 meters. there are even advocates of formal, rigid fishing criteria, such as the mythical significance of depths of over 1 000 metres without any convincing justification. i am in favour of continuing to look for more efficient methods of measuring the state of the resources, adapted to the ecosystem of the particular aquarium. the results of such comprehensive surveys, rather than mere estimates, should form the basis for the catch limits for deep-sea fisheries. not just for this fishing. it is precisely the increasingly sophisticated methods of research that can guarantee a more precise system of information exchange and control of this important and delicate fishery.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am pleased to be speaking on behalf of the former prime minister of finland and to be debating the report of the present minister of foreign affairs of finland, until recently our colleague, mr alexander stubb. the fate of the european parliament's rapporteurs is, so to speak, uncharted territory. the latest ngo report shows that lobbyists have become a real problem when it comes to influencing the european commission's decision-making process. for example, by filling a significant number of expert posts in the various bodies around the european commission. the five thousand lobbyists who make up the european parliament, out of the fifteen thousand in brussels, must operate according to very clear rules. the proposal to establish a joint register of lobbyists of the european parliament and the european commission is a good one. the sword of sanctions is also good. finally, our voters have a right to know, they should know who the lobbyist is, who is funding him and what lobbyists have tried to influence what reports in various ways. this report is a step in the right direction, a step towards regulating a certain reality that already exists.
mr. chairman, please! lobbying within the eu institutions is a complex issue. on the one hand, access to the institutions' activities is the result of the principle of transparency enshrined in the founding treaties and fills the gap associated with the so-called democratic deficit, since expert organisations provide valuable expertise that has a positive impact on the quality of european legislation. however, on the other hand, lobbying influence on the work of the institutions may allow large multinational corporations to pursue their own interests primarily through specialised firms. the problem of lobbying in parliament is becoming more important as the powers of our institution increase, and the commission's initiative to establish interinstitutional cooperation to define a framework for lobbyists, including the establishment of a common register of lobbyists, should therefore be welcomed. the principle of transparency, which allows lobbyists to gain insight into the work of the institutions, should also apply to them. registration should be a mandatory, not a voluntary, condition for lobbyists to gain access to the eu institutions.
in writing. – the pluralism of interests is an important feature of democracy. it is therefore legitimate that members of society organise and lobby for their interests. however, lobbying does lead to the risk that democratic principles may be corrupted. the power of corporations to influence politicians can lead to unequal access to law- and decision-making processes vis-à-vis the ordinary citizen. very few european countries have regulated lobbying. this parliamentary report on lobbying will be a valuable step in strengthening transparency, accountability and citizens’ participation in the democratic process at the european level. however experience in countries that have implemented lobbying legislation shows that this should only be one part of a broader range of guidelines and measures. from non-transparent lobbying it is only a short step to corruption and the distortion of the market to the detriment of those companies who play by the rules. the involvement of industry representatives in preparing this report is welcome. they should now be urged to take up the initiative and show that responsible corporations have a vital role to play in the process of regulating lobbying.
in writing. i would like to extend my warmest congratulations and appreciation not only to the rapporteur, but also to commissioner kallasa, who has taken the initiative of new regulations on lobbying. this is particularly important in the light of the new powers of the european parliament in the light of the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. however, i have doubts about the effectiveness and fairness of the voluntary registration system for lobbyists. it should be common and binding on all the european institutions. however, the nature of parliament should preserve its autonomy. the mandatory registration should cover the full spectrum of lobbying entities, including regional representations, trade organisations, lawyers acting as lobbyists, research centres. all those who exercise influence for economic or social benefit should be registered. the requirement to provide only financial information is not always reliable and does not allow for a full assessment under the regulation.
in writing. the lobbying regulation is welcome, as it finally provides a chance for parliament to work transparently with interest groups (lobbyists). the idea expressed in the directive of making it compulsory for parliament and the commission to establish a register of all lobbyists interested in representing and defending their interests before the eu institutions should be supported. enrollment in the register will allow interested lobbyists not only access to the ep premises, but also to attend committee meetings and to have contact with members, but without disturbing their work in the offices. however, the effectiveness of civilized - and therefore transparent - lobbying depends to a large extent on the behaviour of lobbyists, and it will therefore be necessary to develop a parallel code of ethical conduct for lobbyists. parliament should also monitor the implementation of this directive, in particular by checking the accuracy of the information contained in the register. a lobbyist who provides insufficient or false information should be subject to proportionate and dissuasive sanctions, ranging from suspension of registration to deletion from the register. the new legislative proposal, which is also drawn up on the european parliament's own initiative, will be of great informative value to the other european institutions and to the national parliaments of those eu member states which have not yet adopted legislation on the subject.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the development of sport and the promotion of its multifaceted impact are rightly considered to be one of the strategic objectives of the european community. in addition to the very important issues raised in the report on the regulation of sports organisations and the emphasis on the economic dimension, i am particularly pleased to see the concern for so-called sport for everyone. the promotion of this idea is particularly important as a large proportion of the initiatives of sports clubs or associations are not for profit and are therefore at risk of disappearing in a commercialised market. the appreciation of amateur sport is therefore in line with the idea of sport being closer to the citizens. the report rightly draws attention to the negative phenomena in sport, such as doping and the exploitation of athletes, to which young athletes at the beginning of their careers are also exposed. their protection is a matter of priority. hence the restrictive rules on the transfer of young players and the approval of the principle of signing the first contract with the club that trained the player. this is a step in the right direction, as is the joining of forces in the fight against doping and the use of international coordination. it is also important to guarantee professional athletes the same rights as contract workers. i also congratulate mr mavrommatis on his excellent report.
mr. chairman, please! the white paper talks about old problems, such as doping, problems concerning the economic competition between television stations for broadcasting rights, which of course affects the fans, the viewers, but also a growing problem, which is increasingly threatening fair sport, especially football, that is, betting. this last thing may be the biggest challenge in modern sport. this is evidenced by the recent scandal in the national league, in the football league of the country in which we are, in belgium, where the chinese mafia was supposed to bet on the results of football matches. the situation that is about to arise: the liberalisation of the gambling market, also in the context of sport, creates additional temptations to break the fair play principle. finally, i cannot agree with the european parliament's proposal to negate fifa's position on the six players from the country. this rule that fifa is proposing is a good one. it saves the national sport.
mr. chairman, please! one of the fundamental problems i would like to highlight is the lack of legal certainty. the commission has not clearly defined which aspects of the organisation of sport are subject to community law and which are purely sporting and therefore fall within the competence of sporting organisations. i share the rapporteur's view that relying solely on the european court of justice does not contribute to legal clarity, nor does the european commission's assertion that the regulations governing sports organisations must be compatible with the treaties. it's not enough. i therefore join the call to the european commission to adopt interpretative guidelines which will allow for clear and precise action in this area. it is of course important to stress that any action by the commission must be in line with the principle of self-regulation in sport, respect for the structures of the european model of sport and the basic principles governing the organisation of sporting events. i do not agree with the view of some sports organisations that some kind of consolidation or codification of the rules relating to sports activities in the non-sporting field, while respecting the principles of self-regulation, would contribute to the increase in litigation. i think the opposite is true: increasing legal certainty can only have positive effects. i would also like to ask sports organisations to accept the right to appeal to the ordinary courts. for every man has the right to appeal to the courts. without calling into question the competence of the strictly sporting tribunals, the restriction of such rights by certain sports organisations cannot be accepted. and another very important point: in view of the great social importance of sport, member states should retain the right to take measures to protect the right to information and to ensure that the public has access to television coverage of major sporting events, such as the olympic games, the world cup or european football in open air, accessible to all. i would like to congratulate manolis mavrommatis on his excellent work on this report.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of the committee on regional development, i would like to emphasise the role of regions and local authorities in developing sports infrastructure, organising events that are widely accessible and promoting sport and healthy lifestyles among the inhabitants of the municipalities, the citizens of the european union. i would also like to draw attention to the issue of access to sport for people with disabilities. member states should guarantee access to physical education classes, at least at basic level and, where possible, at advanced level, in particular for pupils with disabilities. ladies and gentlemen! we should remember that sport is one of the most effective instruments of social integration and as such should be supported much more by the european union through specific programmes, especially for organisers of international sports events for young people, including those of an inclusive nature involving people with disabilities. sport is not just physical activity and health, it is an invaluable aid in the formation of attitudes of tolerance, fairness and respect for the principles of fair play, which is particularly important for children and young people, young citizens of the european union.
in writing. sport is a field of public life which is so important and international that it deserves the attention of the european union institutions. combating disease together is more effective than the efforts of individual countries. the recognizable and widespread disease of modern competitive sport is the aid of doping. the fight against doping therefore takes first place in the european parliament's report. meps from the former communist bloc remember that doping can be a nationalised breeding ground for champions, sanctioned by the authorities of a country that builds its prestige through success in the sports arena. the rapporteur realistically notes that treating symptoms (increased controls) is not enough if it is not accompanied by removing the causes of the phenomenon (the organism's overwhelming party schedule, education). another noticeable disease of mass sports events is the symptoms of racism and discrimination. i do not link this with restrictions, such as fifa, on the number of national and foreign players in a team, which is dictated by concern for the chances of promotion and development of young talent (rather than transfers), and is not a manifestation of discrimination against players on the basis of national origin. on the other hand, i appreciate and support the attention paid to the pathologies associated with the commercialisation of sport and its side effects (gambling and unequal access to broadcasts of sporting events).
madam president! in this important report, i want to focus on the issue of sport among young people and in local communities. projects aimed at increasing the attractiveness of physical activity among children and young people should be supported, and schools that actively support sport should be promoted. in particular, it is necessary to support projects aimed at developing school and extra-school sports infrastructure, as well as plans to involve young people in extra-curricular activities. i believe it is very important to support sporting activities at the lowest level, closest to the citizens, by providing an appropriate level of funding to small clubs and sports facilities. the impact of sport is local and regional. it promotes both urban and rural activism. clear and simple procedures should therefore be established for obtaining funding that can be used to develop sport, recreation and multifunctional facilities that serve the community.
madam president! i voted in favour of mr mavrommatis' report not only because i think it is a complete, well-drawn-up report. i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur and to the committee on culture and education for including in my document an amendment to ensure equal treatment of disabled athletes in social matters. some national legislation, providing for financial support for olympians in poor economic circumstances after their sporting career has ended, does not apply to paralympians. for people with disabilities, playing sports improves their self-esteem and sense of personal dignity.
in writing. − the sea and its resources are of great importance for employment and economic growth in the eu. they're a source of food and energy. tourism is also developing in coastal regions and is an important sector of the economy. marine resources should be used responsibly. the eu's fisheries sector is the second largest in the world. fisheries and aquaculture supply some 7.3 million tonnes of fish each year. the fisheries and fish processing sector employs 360 000 people. i therefore believe that the eu should establish and improve a common fisheries policy with third countries.
in writing. - the problem raised by the rapporteur is how to reconcile the promotion of the consolidation of a system of effective competition with the principle of equality before the law. the free market is undoubtedly the best way to regulate the economy - to paraphrase a saying - 'because nothing better has been invented'. in this respect, the rapporteur's initiative may be seen as interventionist and have negative effects on the economy. on the other hand, ensuring market sustainability is about protecting dispersion and preventing market monopolization. making a decision as important as this requires a broader discussion and expert analysis. the report does not cover the whole of the issue. hence my decision to refrain.
in writing. − the cappato report gave priority to the issue of undefined discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and reproductive rights. at the same time, he belittled the violation of religious freedom in the world. that is why i could not support this report in today's vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr ford glyn on trade and economic relations with asean (association of south east asian nations). i wanted to emphasize that a fruitful agreement requires the commitment of both partners! in the light of reports on recent negotiating rounds, the prospect of a rapid and ambitious agreement with asean may be undermined by a lack of negotiating capacity and difficulties in developing a common position. asean would be the eu's fifth largest trading partner. the report supports the idea of a free trade agreement with asean, provided that certain key conditions are met. it should be ensured that the level of protection of consumers and the environment is not reduced. negotiating an agreement with a region of ten independent countries is very complex and time-consuming, but interregional agreements have great benefits in promoting regional integration, strengthening the economies of partner countries and reducing the number of regulations.
in writing. - the european union should pay particular attention to its trade and economic relations with third countries. asean countries are growing their gdps year by year. the bangko sentral ng pilipinas forecasts for the current year include a gdp growth of 4.8-5.5%, an 11% increase in exports and a 10% increase in the value of remittances from filipinos working abroad. malaysia's gdp per capita is $6,721. it is forecast to increase to usd 7 596 in 2008. in 2007, the malaysian economy recorded a 6.3% increase in gross domestic product. the total gdp growth of all asean countries is estimated to be around 6%. these are important indicators for assessing trade and economic relations with the countries of south east asia (asean).
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? there are currently some 2500 lobbying organisations in brussels, of which over 300 are representations of local and regional authorities operating on the basis of regional embassies, including the representation of lesser poland, which i represent here in the european parliament. in this report, i would like to draw attention to the issue of the relationship between the eu institutions and such organisations. the representations of local and regional authorities, in their efforts to gain access to reliable information in the european institutions, also provide up-to-date information on the situation in their regions. referring to the two-way nature of transparency mentioned by the rapporteur, i would therefore like to stress the importance of increasing transparency also by the eu institutions themselves and of equal treatment of all organisations represented in brussels. i supported the report because of the concrete examples of how the european parliament can increase the transparency of the procedures applied to external organisations.
in writing. - it is good that the european parliament is looking at lobbying issues. it can't be a matter of public record. there are rules to be followed, there must be transparency. we're moving into an area that is socially and legally sensitive. we are aware that contacts with experts enrich the substantive knowledge of legislators and provide a form of dialogue with society, providing a feedback loop. a member of the european parliament, an employee of the european commission or of another institution does not live in a world of isolation. this knowledge allows him to create better, more life-giving laws. on the other hand, there are opportunities for unfair influence on the law-making process. it is also being bent to the interests of certain pressure groups (e.g. abortionists), corporations, etc. it leads directly to corruption and creates not so much a law as a system of rules. can we really tighten and seal the laws to prevent bad lobbying and corruption? unfortunately, or of course not. there's always a way around it. it should be noted that this lobbying is also possible through direct contact within the member states. i am not in favour of the report, but i cannot accept the amendments which classify the churches as lobby groups. so we have to look beyond the letter of the law to look at ethics, to look at transparency, to look at morality. morality is never the enemy of democracy!
in writing. - in discussing the role of sport in the european union, i would like to stress the importance of local action. i believe that they are the first step towards a european policy for the promotion of sport. in the lesser poland region, which i represent, more than 60 000 people suffer from diabetes and cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death (in 2005 it was 51%). most of these diseases are caused by obesity and lack of exercise. the promotion of a healthy lifestyle is one of the main objectives of the development strategy of the province, and this is to be achieved by investing in infrastructure and building new swimming pools, courts and sports halls in the region. in addition, my region promotes sporting activity by organising financial prizes for the best young athletes (more than 120 young people have been awarded so far). in particular, support for such activities at regional level should be a key element in promoting healthy lifestyles in the european union. i have supported mr mavrommatis' report because i believe it touches on many aspects which are important for the development of sport.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the fact that parliament has taken up such an important issue for eu citizens on its own initiative. i would like to emphasize this part of the report, which highlights the value of the message that sport conveys. this message is most often conveyed in the form of the well-known slogan that "sports is health". it has helped millions of europeans to take better care of their physical and mental health. but that's not all. through sport we learn - from an early age - about noble competition and fairness, we become convinced that our place at the finish line depends on us and that the work and the enormous effort put into preparing for the competition will be rewarded. sports, through the presence of foreign players, eliminate the manifestations of discrimination and teach us tolerance in the stadiums. and tolerance is a fundamental element of respect for human rights, present in all eu documents. the report also highlights the fact that true sport must be free from violence and that individual pursuit of excellence must be free from the scourge of our time, doping.
mr. chairman, please! at the lima summit, pro-abortion amendments were tabled by a member of the european parliament to the resolution on poverty and social exclusion. this issue is beyond the decision-making powers of the european union institutions. such matters are governed by national law. the amendment was rejected by the european parliament in a separate vote of the representatives of the parliaments of the two continents in the committee on social affairs, exchanges, the environment, education and culture, which means that it has not been accepted by the committee. there was no unanimous acceptance by both parliaments. between committee and plenary sessions, the voting procedure was changed to a joint vote by the representatives of both parliaments. the amendments were passed by the latin american parliamentarians. accepting this would mean that each of us could, on behalf of the european union, enter entries in international documents beyond its mandate, under its responsibility. i object to such practices.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? in assessing the european parliament's revenue and expenditure plan for 2009, we take into account the specific conditions and challenges of the coming year, and we agree on what those challenges are. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's powers are increased as a result of the expected entry into force of the lisbon treaty, that elections are held, that the electoral campaign is financed, that new rules on the remuneration of members are introduced and that, hopefully, transparent rules on the recruitment and remuneration of assistants are introduced. not everything that is a challenge for next year has been quantified and therefore included in the spending plan for next year. if that happens, the natural response to uncertainty is budgetary reserve and that is what we talked about in our meeting with the parliament's bureau, which in our budgetary slang is called 'preconciliation'. i am pleased to note the good atmosphere of this meeting and the consideration of many of our suggestions. the new parliament's 65 staff were integrated into the budget, with part of the money being put into the reserve. the so-called lisbon reserve was created as we await the results of the work of a special group set up to examine the relationship between the lisbon treaty and the new needs of parliament. the committee on budgets has responded to the political groups' demands and recognised the need for staffing, but this must be subject to the principles of budgetary discipline, namely reemployment takes precedence over the appointment of new staff. in the area of real estate and construction policy, we expect a long-term strategy in may, especially as the amounts allocated and currently in reserve, together with the shifts from the current year, are significant. we found a budget of 3.4 million euros to remove asbestos from the sdm building in starsburg. given the not-so-proud publicity we've received about the strasbourg settlement and the sensitivity of the matter, the matter needs clarification and that's what the amendments are about. they go so far as to demand reserves for these funds. i am not going to go into the other issues that are very costly, namely the computerization of the visitors centre, the additional services for members of parliament. the fact that we are still below the 20% threshold for the total administrative expenditure of the european institutions is particularly noteworthy. the 20% is not an end in itself, but a wise self-limitation that increases our credibility when we expect budgetary discipline from other institutions. i hope that the expenditure plan presented is close to what will be the final budget of parliament. i hope that we can maintain the climate of confidence which is largely due to the personal efforts of mr rømer, secretary-general. in tomorrow's vote, we only have four amendments, so it looks like it's going to go smoothly. finally, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the smooth running of the pilot procedure, which is seen as a difficult one, and i hope that it will continue to be so until parliament's budget is finally adopted.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft resolution of the european parliament on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2009, together with the draft estimates, tabled by mr janusz lewandowski, raises expectations as regards the implementation of parliament's tasks in this particular year. these include the implementation of the tasks relating to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the elections to the parliament, the amendment of the statute of the member, as well as the policy on real estate, the improvement of the service provided to members, energy savings and so on. what has been said many times about the entire union budget that more cannot be done with less is now possible. the knowledge and vast experience of mr lewandowski and all of us, and the excellent cooperation with the bureau, have worked wonders. my political group will vote to adopt the draft resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, if the lisbon treaty is ratified by all member states, 2009 will be the first year of parliament's functioning on the basis of the treaty. the european parliament's own powers will be increased, but there will also be an obligation to consult the parliaments of the member states on proposed legal acts. this is likely to result in a significant increase in operating costs: the hiring of additional staff, higher costs for expertise or consultancy. secondly, 2009 is also the year of new elections to the parliament, and in particular the introduction of the members' statute, which will undoubtedly entail a significant increase in parliament's expenditure. finally, thirdly, experts estimate that in 2009 the average annual inflation in the union will be around 4%, which will have a significant impact on the substantial increase in the in-kind costs of parliament's operation. i hope that all these factors will be taken into account when the final draft budget of the european parliament is drawn up.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? firstly, the desirable, transparent regulation of the rules on the remuneration of assistants should not be a matter for bargaining and political group debate, as this is the joint responsibility of the whole parliament as it seeks to renew its mandate of confidence next year. secondly, the more frequently and better informed we are ex ante of projects of financial importance, the better the climate of trust between us and the bureau. thirdly, the purpose of budgetary work is precisely to prepare for the most likely scenario for next year. the budgetary reserve is the answer to uncertainty, and this also applies to the uncertainty surrounding the lisbon treaty and its consequences.
nature has unevenly distributed the earth's resources underground, food and trees on the surface, and fish in the water. human needs are similar, but they require the joint exploitation of resources and their transfer through international trade. the holm report says a lot about that. i want to draw attention to a few aspects of my colleague casparri. first, the wise use of scarce resources. i repeat, limited goods. second, to protect raw materials from theft, from neo-colonial export from poor countries, especially from africa. we have no transparency on the trade in these commodities that is being conducted there by china and other actors. third, the economy of these resources should be geared to the development of poor countries. that's our main objective. the benefits should extend to the people, not just to government officials and large multinational corporations. fourthly, the union should pursue a commodity trade policy which does not make it a hostage of russia for example in the case of gas and, in the future, perhaps brazil in the case of sugar. quinto, the absolute joint responsibility for the exploitation of marine resources falls on all partners. some fish species, as we know, are already endangered. so is the forest in asia and the amazon. in conclusion, madam president, free and fair trade must be guided by a responsibility to exploit scarce natural resources so that future generations can also have access to them as essential to their existence, and by helping poor countries to develop the technologies of basic food products. and in this respect, europe can do much, much.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is difficult to disagree with the attempt to seek favourable legal regulation leading to the establishment of a joint venture in the field of fuel cells and hydrogen technologies. the interesting report by ms locatelli qualifies this initiative as an interesting example of a public-private partnership aimed at implementing a joint technology initiative. however, in the opinion sent to me, the council confirmed the enormous complexity of the technological challenge in the practical application of these cells. experts therefore face the formidable task of engaging in difficult studies to ensure efficacy. for example, some scientists predict that there will be significant limitations to the use of fuel cells. assuming that hydrogen is only an energy carrier, it should be borne in mind that its practical application, for example in fuel cells, requires the use of other energy sources to produce this carrier. if we can overcome this challenge, others will emerge, such as the need to find suitable technologies for hydrogen storage or transport. i would like to draw attention to this issue in the context of the further legislative work on the document to which the european parliament has given its opinion, even after it has left parliament. i'll say this out loud, as if in passing: my chief expert says it's not going to work.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank the honourable members for their comments. i would also like to say that in introducing the joint technology initiatives we are truly starting out with a new concept. i sincerely hope that it works, because this new approach should be instrumental in bringing some new realities to europe. what we are introducing is actually a move from financing projects to financing programmes, and stronger support in the private-public partnership, and i mean ‘private-public’ partnership, because it is clear that initiatives and strategic research agendas are coming from technology platforms which have formed the basis for these joint technology initiatives. working together is a must, and what i am seeing in these joint technology initiatives is groupings actually coming together on a european union scale. some of the major competitors in europe are coming together so that, in this pre-competitive phase, they are able to pool their knowledge and strengthen europe on the global map. i would also like to say, in this context, that this specific technology initiative is extremely important because it relates to the energy sector, and every day we are reminded of the importance of that sector. one of the most important objectives of the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) is to accelerate the development and implementation of low-carbon technologies. i know that you are working on your opinion on the set plan, and am very much looking forward to hearing your views. as i said earlier, the fuel cells and hydrogen jti is an interesting model for other areas and will certainly become part of the set plan, once it is be approved. hopefully we will see the difference this makes in the future. one last thing i would like to mention, as i do not know whether the interpretation was correct, is that the european commission will contribute up to eur 470 million for the six years this joint technology initiative is to be implemented and, of course, expects that figure to be doubled by the private sector, which will also contribute to this endeavour.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur, mr berlato. i was very encouraged by the enthusiasm with which you made your speech tonight. i also wish to thank the committee on agriculture and rural development for the report on the community tobacco fund. in 2004 the council adopted the tobacco reform that constrains partly coupled and partly decoupled payments for the tobacco producers in the period between 2006 and 2009. the reform allows a relatively long transitional period because the partly coupled aid can run until 2009. but we have seen – as you have rightly said – member states that chose to decouple totally from 2006 when the reform entered into force. the 2004 reform also included the transfer of a percentage of the tobacco aid for the years 2006 and 2007 from the tobacco producers to the tobacco fund. the commission proposal prolongs the transfer of a percentage from the tobacco aid to the tobacco fund until the calendar year 2009. i very much welcome the support for the transfer of part of the tobacco aid into the community tobacco fund. your report correctly stresses the major importance for the european public of the measures carried out by this fund, aimed at promoting information initiatives on the damage that tobacco can cause. however, your request to prolong the transitional period until 2012 poses a huge problem. such an extension of the transitional partly coupled regime is totally against the philosophy of what the commission will propose tomorrow in its communication on the ‘health check’, which is moving towards more decoupled payment, to give the farmers the freedom to produce what the market wants. so far as i have been informed, those member states that decided from the very beginning to decouple totally the payment to tobacco producers did so because it was more profitable for the farmers to leave the sector – perhaps because of the quality of the tobacco, it was more difficult to get a decent price. it was also agreed in 2004 that 50% of the community support to the tobacco sector would go into the rural development measures. this will start in the budget year 2011 and go, as an additional community support, to tobacco-producing regions. it is important to note that it is earmarked for the tobacco-producing regions. on that basis, a yearly amount of eur 484 million has already been included in the rural development programmes for the 2007-2013 period for those member states that are covered by the tobacco reform. therefore i am quite sure that it can come as no surprise that i cannot propose a prolongation of the transitional partly coupled regime, because of the agreement supported by all tobacco-producing member states when this package on mediterranean products was agreed in 2004. however, i am looking forward to a very animated, interesting discussion tonight.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgets. - madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. subsidising tobacco production while at the same time combating the smoking of tobacco products has been controversial for years. however, the community tobacco fund, which currently represents 5% of the subsidy amount, is used to finance research, anti-smoking, propaganda and training of producers to enable them to switch to other production. i was rapporteur for the committee on budgets, which gave its opinion on the report by mr sergio berlato. the extension of the funding of the community tobacco fund for another two years is very good, but we must realise that the objectives of its existence will not end after that period, because we know that people have smoked and will continue to smoke. whether we produce tobacco in europe or not, people will always smoke. even if we don't subsidize tobacco companies, the problem won't go away and the fund should continue to exist. the only thing that can change is the way we fund it.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. it's rare that decisions we debate in this chamber have such profound implications for so many people. today we are deciding whether or not to be tobacco producers in europe. this is the production that provides the livelihood for some 120 000 farmers and, together with seasonal workers, for almost 400 000 people in both the old and the new member states. the example of greece has already shown that so-called tobacco reform is in fact the destruction of the tobacco sector. that's a death sentence for 120,000 people, mostly small, family farms. i know of such farms in poland, but also here, near strasbourg, they are run by french farmers. a great drama of people who have tied their lives to tobacco growing. what would they lose it for? after all, the abolition of tobacco will not stop people from smoking. they'll be smoking it with imported tobacco. such reform will not help anyone and will harm many. i therefore fully support the report by mr berlato, who rightly defends the tobacco growers, and i join the voices of mr glavakis and mr cercas.
commissioner, mr president, i have to ask you to stop. mr. berlato's project links health issues with farmers. the increase from 5% to 6% and the proposal to extend the scheme for 2009-2012 will significantly increase the fund's budget by up to €81 million. many farmers, as well as many organisations, fully support the draft regulation. both the polish and european tobacco growers' communities expect that the adoption of the report will lead to the extension of the community tobacco fund, which is important for public health, and to the maintenance of the tobacco sector for 100,000 growers in europe. this project, without any additional budgetary expenditure, allows the system of subsidies, partly linked to tobacco production, to be maintained. this avoids discrimination between tobacco growers and other agricultural sectors. i'm not going to let you down. it is important that, as from tomorrow, the health check presentation should return to the very important debate on the future of tobacco farming in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. today's debate is one of those where the arguments of farmers and environmentalists fighting for a healthy european society intersect. however, will european society be healthier if it smokes tobacco of a much lower quality imported from third countries, because by destroying our own production we will be importing not 70%, but 100%. we must also consider whether discriminating against farmers and tobacco producers instead of developing rural areas will not lead to even greater economic decline and unemployment in certain regions of the european union. of course, you can then pump in aid money for the unemployed, because we are so rich that we can afford to destroy our own agriculture at the expense of, for example, the development of far eastern agriculture, which we need to support to fight unemployment there. i fully support the report by mr berlato.
i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, the separation of payments from production is an idea that the european commission has repeatedly put forward. this is clearly reducing european agricultural production. commissioner fischer boel has repeated this idea again today, this time in relation to tobacco growing. secondly, it should be recalled that tobacco is grown in the least developed regions, in small family farms, in both the old and the new member states. the elimination of crops means a weakening of the development potential of these regions as well as a threat to the existence of small farms. finally, thirdly, although tobacco is a controversial crop, its reduction in europe means that tobacco imports from third countries will increase. mep berlato said that tobacco imports last year amounted to as much as 1 billion 200 million euros. i hope that these concerns will be taken into account in the european commission's position.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you to all of you that have contributed to this debate and thank you once again for supporting the prolongation of the transfer into the tobacco fund. i am of course aware that discussions on tobacco policies are a very sensitive issue and i can tell you that i experienced that recently during my visit to greece in april. i must say clearly as well that the prolongation of the tobacco fund is not an invitation to reopen the tobacco reform from 2004, and i think you have to be aware that this reform is a done deal. and i think you have to take into account as well that this reform was supported by all the tobacco-producing member states. therefore, it would be a bit difficult to restart the whole discussion again. i think it is important as well to remember that we are not stopping subsidies to the tobacco producers. we are actually continuing to pay the highest direct payment or the highest subsidies, more than anyone else in the agricultural sector. no other crop is actually receiving that high a direct payment. so we will stick to the fact that we will decouple in 2009, and from 2011 we will transfer into the rural development policy. therefore, instead of wasting or using a lot of time and lots of efforts against what was agreed in the council in 2004, i think member states and tobacco producers, the whole tobacco sector, should look into the rural development policy instead and see what the possibilities are, because lots of money will be available for restructuring, for trying a different business in the agricultural sector. with a bit of imagination – although i know that you cannot produce everything in these areas – i am sure that a solution could be found if there is cooperation between member states, the tobacco sector and the tobacco producers, to try to find viable solutions for these areas, in the period after 2011 as well.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 20 may 2008.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr bairbre de brún on behalf of the committee on regional development on the evaluation of the peace programme and the strategy for the future (2007/2150 (ini)) (a6-0133/2008).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 20 may 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
- the next item is the report by mrs margie sudre, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the strategy for the outermost regions: achievements and plans for the future (2008/2010 (ini)) (a6-0158/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to thank mrs sudre for taking up this matter. european solidarity requires that the specific situation of the outermost regions be taken into account. we have a duty, and a moral duty, to ensure the economic and social cohesion of these regions. the territorial cohesion enshrined in the lisbon treaty, although not in a literal geographical sense, must also have a dimension covering the outermost regions of the union. the need to strengthen the partnership, understood as improving accessibility, enhancing competitiveness and improving regional integration, should be emphasised. of course, it must not be forgotten that the subjects of all these activities are the inhabitants of the overseas territories. they are concerned about maritime and air transport, unemployment, tourism, fisheries, the provision of adequate education and health care, and universal access to broadband internet. we should also remember the natural disasters that unfortunately occur in these areas. these areas have their strengths, but also their problems. the report by mrs sudre brings them very close to us.
member of the commission. − mr president, very briefly in reply to what mr van nistelrooij asked, yes, we have been working with the dutch government for the last year-and-a-half on this. fortunately the changes which were permitted by the treaty have been introduced, so we hope that one day we will have the three new territories. with regard to the comments made, let me first of all say that, in line with the request formulated by the european council in december, the commission will be producing a communication this autumn that will take the outermost region strategy forward with, i hope, decisiveness and pragmatism. that is our approach to address both new challenges, but first of all to facilitate grasping all the opportunities. mme sudre, i see your report as helping to build a bridge between the present and future strategies for the outermost regions and that is a very important role of this report. i also very much believe that the right way forward is indeed first of all to build on the assets of the outermost regions, that was stressed by several members. let me also mention in this context our future green paper on territorial cohesion, which will be an essential feature of the french presidency. the outermost regions have a strong role to play in this process of preparing the territorial dimension of the cohesion policy because the outermost regions truly personify our efforts to bridge the territorial divides inside europe. that is why i would welcome their strong involvement in the public consultation related to the green paper on territorial cohesion. on the last issue, let me simply reassure you that the commission will continue to promote a coordinated and integrated approach and will seek to achieve synergies between different community policies affecting the outermost regions.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 20 may 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
- the next item is the report by mr lasse lehtinen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the eu consumer policy strategy 2007-2013 (2007/2189 (ini)) (a6-0155/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament for supporting the objectives and actions of our consumer policy strategy for the years 2007-2013 and of course for the great support and work of the rapporteur. i welcome the view of parliament on the necessity to transform the 27 national mini-markets into a pan-european retail market – the largest in the world. to achieve this, we need to increase the confidence of consumers to shop across borders. we often say that trust is the currency of the modern economy. i believe that, through our endeavours and substantial efforts, helped by the set of our strategy, we could, step by step, achieve this goal. in this context, i also very much appreciate the support given to the proposed framework directive on consumer contractual rights, which is the tool for achieving the goal. i am particularly pleased with the agreement of parliament on the need for targeted full harmonisation where bottlenecks to the functioning of the internal market are identified. on the consumer markets scoreboard, i am grateful for the welcome given by the european parliament to this initiative and look forward to your full support later this year. the scoreboard is central to the aim of the strategy of better understanding how the internal market is working for our consumers – to measure the outcome of the internal market for consumers. when the scoreboard is fully developed, we will really be able to deliver better regulation and evidence-based policy-making. equally important, we will demonstrate to our citizens that we understand and can respond to their day-to-day concerns. you raised the question of redress. i would like to thank you for your support for the consumer policy strategy’s focus on redress and enforcement. redress, together with enforcement, is a key part of this strategy. like you, i strongly believe that, in order to make the internal market work, european consumers must be confident that they can enforce their rights and obtain redress across the whole european union. i also believe that a complementarity of means of redress – judicial and non-judicial, both individual and collective – would allow the most efficient and appropriate treatment of consumer disputes. this would benefit both consumers and reputable businesses alike. personally, i think that collective redress – both judicial and non-judicial – could be an effective means for strengthening the redress framework that we have already set up for european consumers. we have done this through the encouragement of adr – alternative dispute resolution – mechanisms, the establishment of a european cross-border small claims procedure and the newly adopted directive on mediation. of course any future action in this area will need to be assessed carefully. as you know, i have launched two studies aimed at further exploring the issue of collective redress. the first one will examine the effectiveness and efficiency of existing collective redress mechanisms; it will assess whether consumers suffer a detriment in those member states where collective redress is not available and examine the existence of negative effects for the single market. the second study will provide information on the problems faced by consumers in obtaining redress for mass claims and will analyse the economic consequences of such problems for consumers, competitors and the relevant market. i plan to use the results of these studies and the information collected from stakeholders and member states for preparing a communication to be adopted by the commission by the end of 2008. the aim of this communication will be to consult publicly and widely on the options available in the field of consumer collective redress. at the same time, i am evaluating how the directive on injunctions was implemented by the member states and the impact that it has had on the enforcement of consumer rights in the eu. my conclusions will be set out in a report that should also be adopted by the commission at the end of this year. again, thank you to parliament for sharing the vision of the new, market-based consumer policy – one where informed and empowered consumers confidently look for, and benefit from, the best offers in terms of price and quality in the largest retail market in the world.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr lehtinen covers the key issues in the pro-quality strategy for the coming years, which is important for the citizens of the union. i'd like to address a few of the problems with this strategy. consumer organisations, which in some countries face problems in operating and financing, should have a greater say in the development of national and union law. the union should provide more substantive and financial support to these organisations. the legal procedure for class actions against unfair market participants, which is used in some countries, should be adopted and a european action should be brought. the european consumer centres in each country, together with consumer organisations and consumer advocates, should increase information and education activities aimed in particular at protecting the most vulnerable market participants. increasing the efficiency of pro-consumer activities can be achieved by integrating solvitu and rapex consumer centres. we support this report.
mr. chairman, please! i don't think i need to remind you how important customer satisfaction is to the functioning of a business. as consumers, we all know that unfair business practices, deliberate consumer misrepresentation and poor service are effective disincentives to buy goods or services from the same business again. however, it is important that consumers are always accompanied by the possibility to make a genuine choice, to change service provider or retailer. such a choice is undoubtedly the result of a competitive market in which market players do not benefit from discouraging consumers from their goods. in a competitive market, the operator knows that this risks losing its market position and therefore its profits and its potential for further development. i believe that there is such a potential in the internal market of the european union. i am glad that we have the opportunity to shape the internal market and that this is possible thanks to consumers and that this has been recognised. of course, i'm not saying that we're already in that market. consumers are still often unaware of how to search for the most advantageous offers and some traders are reluctant to provide consumers with such information. moreover, consumers' interests are often not sufficiently taken into account by the service providers themselves. that is why it is so important to ensure that consumer rights are respected, that the consumer's right to complete, clear, simple and easily comparable information exists and that this is respected by businesses and those responsible for law-making. it is equally important to inform and make consumers aware of their rights, of the tools that exist to help consumers make decisions in the free market. consumer organisations play a particularly important role in this respect. it is also important to remember that the protection of consumer rights and the ability to enforce them effectively are essential for the proper functioning of the market. however, as the rapporteur points out, consumer protection cannot be an excuse for market protectionism. our task is to strike a balance between consumer protection and the development of entrepreneurship.
member of the commission. − mr president, i understood i have only two minutes, but i wish this talk could be much longer. i very much hope that i will continue with all of you, whenever you have time and interest, to discuss together consumer issues. i would be more than delighted, because i receive a lot of incentives – even in this late session. i would like to make my political commitment, that i will continue to tackle the issues with sustainable development, working on cee and gpsd (the general product safety directive) and they how could they be complementary to each other. of course i will continue with the digital guide, which was one of the very first talks which i had with ms roithová. i am, of course, working together with my fellow commissioners; this portfolio is becoming more and more wide-ranging and evolving other portfolios, but i believe that this is part of the beauty of this portfolio. so, there are many things. let me agree with all of you in saying that if we would like to have a complete internal market, we need to stress the rights of consumers. this is really the only way to fulfil and to square the second phase of the internal market. i believe that if we are making good progress with our scoreboard, this scoreboard will be part of the internal market’s bigger picture, and then we will have already quite a full understanding of how the european internal market is going on. i was specially touched by mrs dahl – i am sorry that she is no longer in the plenary – who said that this was the first time that she had taken the floor. but, referring to the so-called race to the bottom, if we have common rules everywhere in the european union and not just protecting, in the best way, the national consumer, i think that we should not pick the winners, except one: if the winner is the consumer. we started, years ago, making a good environment for business, and this was the right thing. but if you want to develop european business, business needs consumers, and we cannot deny that consumers need the same tackling of bottlenecks, so that they can feel comfortable everywhere, as a swede living in brussels, for example – we need to have the same rights, we need to have the same rights when we are shopping and enjoying e-commerce and other distance selling. let me focus for a while on collective redress. i carefully listened to all of you. let me mention that, in our 10 benchmarks, which we distributed, discussed and received more than 300 opinions about, half of these collective redress benchmarks were related not to having punitive damages compensated and not to being an expensive procedure. so at least five of these benchmarks are related and address the issue of not having additional costs. i believe that the best thing is to open our minds and not to make dogma, and this is my plea for support in this aspect. so i would also like to tell you that what we are preparing is communication: this is why we do not have a study on economic, social and environmental impact, as is done for all our legislative proposals. but we are doing something much more in preparation, and this is to have two really very thorough studies, comparative studies. let me invite you: before the end of the month we will have three big stakeholders’ conferences: with businesses, with consumers and with academics, and our services will provide four places in the workshops for european parliament representatives. all the outcomes of these three events will be absolutely public, put on our websites and communicated in the best manner, and of course i am around and always open to continue to discuss your hopes and your fears. i would like to end by thanking you and saying that maybe for the first time, almost nobody mentioned that europe is going to do a class action. i believe that this is a positive sign.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 20 may 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the common employment policy of the member states passes the examination. it increasingly identifies employment growth programmes for different age groups, taking into account their specific needs, opportunities and risks of finding work. in line with the lisbon strategy, these programmes focus on investing in people, their education and their opportunities in the labour market. the increase in employment of 3,6 million in 2007 and the projected increase of 4,5 million in employment in 2008-2009 are a clear result of this policy. thus, the promotion of a life-cycle approach to work, the care of young people who are not finishing school, the adaptation of working conditions to the needs of families, and in particular to the responsibilities of parents, the elimination of discrimination in the workplace, and in particular in access to training and other forms of upskilling, the gradual reduction of the occupational activity of older people should continue to be the basis for action in this area.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin my remarks with a remark that i express with satisfaction and satisfaction. the renewed lisbon strategy is beginning to bear fruit and, particularly welcome, the number of people in work in the european union is steadily increasing. at this point, however, i must take a somewhat polemical view of the rapporteur's opinion, that the quality of the jobs created may be a cause for concern. we should do everything we can to ensure that the quality of work in the european union is the highest possible, but i believe that any job is better than unemployment, which degrades and perpetuates feelings of worthlessness. this is particularly true for young people, whose unemployment rate remains high and whose future should therefore be a priority in the coming years. an effective tool for increasing the supply of jobs, especially for young europeans, is the concept of combining flexibility and security in the labour market, known as flexicurity. there is no single, universal flexicurity model and therefore the concept should be implemented taking into account the specific circumstances and traditions of the different member states. the amendments proposed by my political group were aimed at this. but two elements of this concept are almost universal, and at the same time, i think, crucial. first, investment in education, and in particular in a high level of lifelong learning, which allows workers to adapt their skills to rapidly changing economic and labour market trends. secondly, the more courageous use of so-called non-standard forms of employment, which allow young people, especially those preparing for the labour market, to acquire both practical skills and to cover the costs of their vocational training.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the statement that the renewed lisbon strategy has resulted in more jobs, but not necessarily better quality jobs. the need to combat poverty and social exclusion should always be taken into account in any european union strategy. however, i do not share the view that the adoption of common social standards at eu level will be the panacea for our problems. employment and social policy fall within the competence of the member states and any action by the union in this area must comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the definition and implementation of strategies based on specific models such as flexicurity will vary at national level. i would like to stress the danger of a one-dimensional approach in this area, while at the same time advocating the creation of a european union-wide platform for the exchange of information and best practice. i believe that no specific employment strategy will be fully successful without the total abolition of the existing obstacles to the free movement of labour as a means of stimulating economic growth and promoting employment.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the current economic situation in the european union is improving. we have gdp growth, we have jobs, we have employment growth, and we have unemployment falling. to sustain this process, social integration must be strengthened, in particular: first, support for employment, especially for young people entering the labour market. secondly, to facilitate the employment of those who are disadvantaged. third, give the long-term unemployed a chance. these are areas where more effective support and action by the european union is needed. it is important to adapt the education and training system to respond to the lisbon strategy and to contribute to economic development, which in turn will contribute to employment.
, in writing. according to the latest reports from the european commission, 16% of eu citizens are at risk of poverty, including 8% despite being in permanent employment. threatened poverty, despite having a steady job, affects 13% of adult poles. ladies and gentlemen, the lesser poland region, which i represent in the european parliament, has the lowest unemployment rate in poland, which is currently at 8%. however, this does not guarantee a secure standard of living, as skyrocketing food and energy prices push many families to the brink of poverty. in the neighbouring świętokrzyskie voivodeship, which i also represent in the ep, the situation is almost dramatic, with unemployment twice as high as in lesser poland. in these two provinces alone, we can see the growing social inequality. as mrs van lancker rightly points out in her report on the guidelines for employment policy, in the european union we have a situation where more than 14 million people in work are living in poverty. this number could increase very rapidly if we do not modify the lisbon strategy to create more and better quality jobs in the eu. this is particularly the case in the new member states, where the wealth gap between citizens and the rest of the eu is the widest.
, in writing. growth and jobs are key elements of the lisbon strategy. building a competitive and innovative europe is linked to changes in the labour market. our companies need workers who are able to respond to new challenges and the need for change. i certainly agree that employment should provide stability, security and certainty for the future. at the same time, the relationship between employer and employee should be flexible enough to allow the entrepreneur to make the changes that the market situation requires. this is why it is so important that employers and workers focus on skills development, upskilling and professional development. this is in the interests of companies that have more skilled, more motivated employees. it is also in the interest of the workers themselves, who gain a stronger position in the workplace through their increased competence and, if they need to change, the certainty that their qualifications will not make it difficult for them to find a place on the labour market. finally, i would like to draw attention to the mobility element in the european market. as we know, many member states still maintain restrictions on the recruitment of nationals from the new member states. and this is despite voices from the business community saying that there is a shortage of workers in many sectors of the economy. as long as there are restrictions on the european labour market, the european freedom of movement of workers and the freedom to provide services will only be half the success of our economies.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate mrs linn on a very engaging report on such an important subject. but i'm a little surprised by the language in which it's maintained, it reminds me a little bit of totalitarian language. if i didn't know that your reporter was from a liberal group, i would think that this report was written by a communist. it is dangerous, i think, to go into detail here and calculate what discrimination should not be, how we should behave when there should be no discrimination. mankind has defined all its commandments and prohibitions in a decalogue and it says in a very short way: thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery. we should simply say, do not discriminate, and leave the rest to the sensitivities and competence of groups of people and member states. however, i think that this report can be accepted on the assumption that amendment no 7 by the epp-ed group will be adopted.
mr. chairman, please! employment is one of the fundamental factors of social integration. nevertheless, unemployment among a wide range of groups, in particular women, disabled people, ethnic minorities, migrants, older people and young people entering the labour market, remains unacceptably high. there is concern that in some member states there are serious shortcomings in the transposition and implementation of directives 43 and 78 of 2000 and a lack of information for citizens of the european union on the possibility of taking legal action in cases of discrimination. it is important that member state governments remove barriers to discrimination in recruitment processes in the labour market as soon as possible. public authorities have a key role to play in promoting equality and non-discrimination, as article 13 of the treaty on european union requires member states to ensure the full, correct and effective transposition and adequate implementation of those directives, so that the fight against discrimination in the european union is coordinated and consistent with a uniform approach to combating discrimination.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to draw attention to the unacceptable discrimination against pregnant women, especially in the face of the demographic collapse in europe. despite legal prohibitions, employers require young women to provide medical proof of pregnancy when they are hired. if they do not produce such a certificate, their chances of getting a job are very slim. this is a difficult but necessary area for the labour inspectorate to work in. large families are also discriminated against. the average per capita income of these families is usually much lower than that of single mothers. however, family allowances and social assistance are usually lower and taxes higher. these are the kinds of problems that are usually overlooked when we talk about discrimination.
, in writing. as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i fully support the elizabeth lynne report. i have no doubt that the international law in force and our eu decisions are both desirable and good from a formal point of view. i therefore regret that there are still many obstacles to their implementation, even in our europe, which would seem to be very democratic and free of discrimination. it is astonishing that eu member states should be called upon to fully comply with the provisions of directive 2000/78/ec and to monitor continuously and systematically progress in the elimination of all forms of discrimination from political, social and economic life. this is particularly important for the citizens of my country, poland, who, taking advantage of the benefits of the single market and the free movement of persons, live and work in many eu countries. unfortunately, i have to say with great regret that there is growing evidence of discrimination against my countrymen simply because of their nationality. such disturbing reports are increasingly coming in from countries such as germany, the united kingdom, and ireland. it would be a paradox if the european parliament were so strongly and effectively involved in combating discrimination in the world and could not deal with respect for human rights at home, i.e. in the eu member states. after all, all eu citizens deserve equal and non-discriminatory treatment!
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i join in congratulating my colleague mr pieczyk on his excellent report. it is important that we discuss this at a symbolic moment, but i would like to focus on the practical aspects of this report. it is a great anachronism that, in the various european policies which we are pursuing in our community, maritime affairs have hitherto been put off, not covered by a community policy. i would point out that this is not a single field, but a field with very broad dimensions, as indicated in this report. it's both an economic dimension; there are a lot of people who live off the sea, who work there. it has a very strong social dimension that we have to pay attention to also when we talk about restructuring this industry, when we talk about what's going to happen to the people who work on and off the sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the regional dimension is also very important; we must remember that the regions which live off the sea, which are situated around the sea, are a very important part of our community. i would also like to stress what was said in this debate, namely that we have always treated our work and our debate as a kind of table of contents and a challenge to the commission. we draw some answers, we ask questions, and we sketch our doubts. but we do have very high expectations of the commission and we expect answers and concrete solutions as soon as possible. i would also point out that for many countries this is a priority, as important as other european policies, for example agricultural policy.
madam president! i'd like to extend my appreciation to willa piecik. willi, you've got us used to you giving very good reports, this time too. thank you so much! my constituency is szczecin - western pomerania. we have the port, the shipyard, the ship owners, the fishermen and the maritime administration. firstly, i welcome the declaration on the celebration of the european maritime days. secondly, the shipyards of szczecin, gdynia, malta and other countries have high hopes for the new maritime policy. the shipbuilding industry is a global industry. our shipyards must operate under conditions comparable to those in the world in which our competitors operate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
shipping and ports, shipyards are sectors that have been somewhat neglected, but which have considerable growth potential. an appropriate concept for the development of competitive and safe maritime transport, ports and related sectors, guaranteeing a high level of maritime safety, is necessary. sea transport is a much more energy-efficient means of transport than road transport. so let's give the shipyards a chance to develop, including those in gdynia, gdansk and szczecin. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. europe has been linked to the sea since the beginning of its existence. it can't be otherwise, since our coastline is 70,000 kilometers long, which is three times the length of the coastline of africa. for years, the sea has provided our ancestors with a source of wealth and income. today, it is similar. only an integrated, coordinated approach, with appropriate actions, will allow us to realise the potential of the sea.
, in writing. access to the sea is not shared by all eu member states, but there is a widespread understanding of the importance of exploiting the sea. it is estimated that the marine industry, maritime services and activities located in coastal areas contribute 40% to the cumulative gdp of the community of 27 countries. this is why we are waiting for the next practical steps to be taken to implement the eu's integrated maritime policy, following the european commission's green paper. we note the efforts to make better use of the potential of cabotage and thus to reduce the burden on land routes, in which, unfortunately, my country has little involvement. but it seems to me that economic issues are being pushed into the background by environmental and climate priorities. this is a trend that is characteristic of the whole of eu policies. but it's hard to reconcile the two. the growing dispute over conservation periods in the baltic is just one illustration of the tension between the economic interests of fisheries and the concerns of conservation of natural resources. from the polish perspective, a country with a lot of work to do, finding a balance between economy and ecology is essential. the report is particularly welcome in connection with the first european maritime day. it would be more important, however, to turn the common maritime policy into a financial and legislative instrument, rather than a mere ceremony.
mr. chairman, please! there is a great deal of controversy surrounding the production and consumption of tobacco. we must be aware that the fact that tobacco is grown in the union does not really affect the level of consumption of tobacco products by our citizens. if we reduce or stop tobacco production in europe, it doesn't mean that the number of cigarettes smoked will decrease. imported tobacco will be used. i fully support the development of public awareness campaigns on the harmful effects of smoking, which should be funded by cigarette and tobacco manufacturers.
mr. chairman, please! employment is the key to our growth. however, it is difficult not to note certain shortcomings in the area of social and territorial cohesion. in the union, which is seen as a prosperous area, nearly 80 million people, or 16% of all citizens, still live in or are at risk of poverty. many jobs are of low quality, there are no facilities for young people to be employed, or for many experienced workers to be extended, and there are no jobs for disabled people. it should be borne in mind that it is the regions whose development is lagging behind that are facing the greatest problems. high unemployment, low participation of the elderly, disabled, high proportion of people unemployed for more than 12 months, women's more difficult situation in the labour market than men's are just some of the problems they have to face. in poland, this situation is found in the regions of the so-called eastern wall. the czech republic's situation is commendable, as it has made reducing barriers to the movement of workers one of its priorities for the forthcoming presidency.
mr. chairman, please! respect for human rights is a fundamental task of the european community. unfortunately, the european union is not doing very well. the situation in this area will not change after just two hours of debate. nor do they offer any hope of improvement in the work of the european commission and other authorities. europe and the rest of the world continue to face discrimination on the basis of race, gender, culture and nationality. the trafficking of people, including children, for money, for pleasure, for organs, is increasing every year. violence is on the rise, and victims are increasingly choosing to remain silent because they do not trust the state to help. i have the impression that we in the european parliament work mainly for the benefit of businesses, corporations, regions, and not enough for ordinary people, for whom the most important things are existence and equality of rights. our actions don't produce the desired results, but only appease the conscience that we are doing something. it's time for a radical change. that is why i voted against the report.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for this report for a number of reasons. first, one of the fundamental challenges facing europe is climate change. this also directly concerns marine areas, especially coastal regions threatened by rising sea levels. secondly, the significant exploitation of marine resources, especially through overfishing, as well as climate change, pose a serious threat to the marine environment today. the relationship between the oceans and the climate is seen as an important part of the eu's climate policy. third, nearly 80% of marine pollution comes from land. environmental hazards, such as wrecks and remnants of munitions and chemical weapons on the seabed, are also important. fourth, intensive fishing has led to a disruption of the ecosystem and contributes to the loss of biodiversity. fifth, oceans and seas also play a significant role in europe's energy security strategy. on the one hand, they are a source of oil and gas, and also a source of renewable energy. on the other hand, they are a means and a means of transporting energy and thereby increase energy security. so we need to create a sustainable policy for the seas and oceans.
in writing. − employment growth in the european union is directly related to vocational training and the mutual recognition of qualifications. i supported mr andersson's report because i believe that eu member states should create a common model for the verification of professional qualifications, regardless of where they were acquired. this will encourage staff to continuously improve their skills and students to learn, gain new experiences and improve their foreign languages in different parts of europe. as the representative of lesser poland, the third largest region in poland in terms of the number of students, i would also like to draw attention to the particular importance of the recognition of diplomas for young people. all academic exchanges, opportunities to compare qualifications are extremely important for young people wishing to gain experience abroad.
in writing. - one of the four principles underpinning the european union's common market is the free movement of persons. the free movement of persons gives eu citizens the opportunity to take up employment in another member state. however, different education systems and regulations on vocational qualifications often make it difficult to take up employment in the occupations in which we are qualified. this is why it is so important to be able to compare professional qualifications between different member states. the european commission and the rapporteur consider that decision 85/368/eec, which regulates this issue, has not sufficiently contributed to the comparability of professional qualifications to the benefit of workers seeking employment in another member state. this is why it was decided to replace it with a newer and more effective instrument, in particular the european qualifications framework, which increases transparency, promotes the transfer of qualifications and facilitates the assessment of learning outcomes. i am pleased that this step has received broad support from a wide range of stakeholders: social partners, industry and sectoral organisations, educational institutions and ngos. this guarantees wide acceptance of the changes. i therefore support the repeal of the decision and believe that the eqf as a tool for the comparison of qualifications will allow for easier movement of people and will achieve the objectives not achieved by decision 85/368/eec and thus ensure greater mobility of workers on the european labour market.
in writing. - the vote on the report by mr sergio berlato, while positive, will not solve the problem of smoking and tobacco production. you could say that we've put off deciding these important matters for a few years. so the problem is going to come back to us and it's going to continue as long as people smoke tobacco. it will have to be solved, but not at the expense of the farmers who have become involved in tobacco production and have made the necessary investments. tobacco farming is a livelihood for tens of thousands of families, often without any other alternative source of income, as is the case in regions with poor soils in poland, for example. that is why we need strategic decisions today, made with deliberation, not under the pressure of lobbyists representing the middlemen and traders operating in the international system.
in writing. - i abstained on the report by mrs van lancker on the guidelines for employment policy. unfortunately, this report has not been able to avoid contradictions. on the one hand, it is full of words about 'the knowledge-based society', 'competitiveness', 'technological challenges' and on the other hand 'the need to ensure job security', 'stability', etc. the first one emphasizes intention, the second emphasizes persistence. there can be no progress without a disruption in the employment structure. it's never worked in history. so instead of talking about job security, which is the preservation of the job and the nature of the job, we should be talking about something else, namely the provision of access to work. for this work that is now, at this historic moment. this should be our common concern.
in writing. - in the report on the employment policies of the member states, i find many contradictions. the rapporteur writes that the renewed lisbon strategy has produced results, including the growth of eu gdp in recent years and a decline in unemployment, and that the employment guidelines do not require a complete revision, but only changes to a number of specific points. the rapporteur also notes that in recent years as many as 6 million young people aged 18-24 have left school early and interrupted their education, and that 40% of total unemployment in the eu is young people, with the figure being twice as high among migrants. 78 million people live in poverty, that's twice the population of poland. it also notes the increase in the number of jobs obtained at the expense of their lower quality, the increase in the proportion of people employed on a part-time and fixed-term basis, often under a contract concluded under duress. reality speaks for itself, but we don't always want to listen to it. and the problem is that society is not integrating, it's dividing. poverty is not decreasing, but it is increasing every year. discrimination against women, older workers and migrants in the labour market is not diminishing, and stereotypes in thinking and acting are not disappearing.
in writing. - i support the above report and the position of the honourable member that the common social objectives of the member states should be better reflected in the lisbon agenda. i also support the transformation of the current lisbon strategy for growth and jobs into a strategy based on growth, jobs and inclusion. i believe it is essential to promote common social standards at eu level. it is necessary to create quality jobs and to reinforce the value of the european social model. i believe that one of the key tasks of the eu's sustainable development strategy is to create an inclusive society in which operational goals and aspirations are at the forefront in order to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, significantly increase the participation of women, older workers and migrants in the labour market and promote the employment of young people.
in writing. − 2009 will be a year of many challenges for the european parliament, in particular the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the elections to the european parliament, the new statute for members and the change of term of office. the overall level of the 2009 budget will have to meet challenges, even though it will be lower than the traditional voluntary limitation of parliament's contribution to 20% of administrative expenditure. it is worth noting that this year's procedure has introduced a pilot process for early and closer cooperation between the bureau and the budget committee on all items with significant budgetary implications. the new approach is designed to ensure that the available resources are used in the most rational way possible and to identify possible savings. it is to be welcomed that reasonable estimates of expenditure have been made for the new member's statute, especially as there is a possibility to adjust the amount of the expenditure at a later stage. it also welcomes the inclusion in the preliminary draft for 2009 of the proposed 65 new posts to strengthen parliament's legislative activities and services for members, while placing 15% of these in the reserve. it also welcomes the continuation of the priorities set in the 2008 budget for interpretation and library analysis services. the successful completion of this year's budgetary procedure will also require immediate debate and concrete decisions on parliament's property policy.
in writing. - i supported mr lehtinen's report because the transparency of the rules protecting european consumers is good for them and also for competing producers. economic changes in the new member states have led to the introduction of new rules for the operation of market operators. today, the consumer's offer is increasingly enriched in terms of products and services. however, i believe that the position of consumers, especially in the new member states, where we all remember the origins of the free market, remains relatively weak in relation to the large companies. it requires greater transparency and the improvement of the appropriate legal framework to ensure that consumers' rights are adequately protected. i also welcome the part of the report in which the rapporteur advocates support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the eu. in my region, lesser poland, they account for 95% of the companies, most of which have a short experience (30% are less than 5 years old).
in writing. - consumers are at the heart of the common market and should therefore be its main beneficiaries. however, i believe that a balance should be struck between legislation that strongly protects consumers and the conditions under which businesses operate. no one is questioning the right of consumers to pursue their claims. however, i believe that we should ensure that consumers in particular are able to enforce their rights quickly and effectively. i believe that extrajudicial remedies should be particularly strongly emphasised when dealing with consumer complaints. i would like to point out that according to business europe, as many as 90% of consumer disputes are settled out of court. the cost of such proceedings is also important, and is considerably lower than the cost of involving the courts. i believe that the amendment voted in the european parliament, which calls for the creation of a european system of collective actions, does not guarantee more effective consumer protection. this issue should be considered by the european commission, and we should refrain from making a decision until the results are published. it may be that this matter is sufficiently regulated by the legislation of the member states. moreover, i fear that this system will create conditions for litigation where the real beneficiaries will not be consumers but the legal community, which will benefit from higher rates for litigation.
in writing. − the european union's consumer policy strategy for 2007-2013 sets out the right direction for consumer protection, but it should be noted that this is far from being enough. we must propose a plan of concrete and consistent next steps which will help to make consumer protection a part of all eu legislation. we must realise that consumer protection is not a separate area of european policy, but is part of all the european policies which make up the european internal market. so without the right safeguards, the single market project will not be completed. we must also remember that eu consumer protection has an external dimension - to mention just one last problem with chinese toys. our aim should be to achieve full consumer confidence in all products in circulation on the internal market. moreover, a genuine internal market should offer a european system of collective redress. in developing it, we must draw on the lessons of the unsatisfactory american class-action system.
in writing. - as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i fully support the elizabeth lynne report. i have no doubt that the international law in force and our eu decisions are both desirable and good from a formal point of view. i therefore regret that there are still many obstacles to their implementation, even in our europe, which would seem to be very democratic and free of discrimination. it is astonishing that eu member states should be called upon to fully comply with the provisions of directive 2000/78/ec and to monitor continuously and systematically progress in the elimination of all forms of discrimination from political, social and economic life. this is particularly important for the citizens of my country, poland, who, taking advantage of the benefits of the single market and the free movement of persons, live and work in many eu countries. unfortunately, i have to say with great regret that there is growing evidence of discrimination against my countrymen simply because of their nationality. such disturbing reports come from germany, the united kingdom, and ireland, among other places. it would be a paradox if the european parliament were so strongly and effectively involved in combating discrimination in the world and could not deal with respect for human rights at home, i.e. in the eu member states. after all, all eu citizens deserve equal and non-discriminatory treatment!
in writing. − to begin with, i would like to stress the importance of debate and action on anti-discrimination and equal opportunities. however, as the rapporteur herself notes, some member states have not yet fully implemented the directives on equal treatment for persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin (2000/43/ec) and on equal treatment in employment and occupation (2000/78/ec). in view of the problems encountered in implementing their provisions, it seems crucial to focus on the correct transposition and more effective enforcement of the provisions of these directives. the situation will not be improved by the inclusion of further categories of persons in further legislative acts. the most important thing is to carry out education and information campaigns and awareness raising activities, mainly at member state level, which will be the appropriate response to these problems. the challenges of discrimination and equal opportunities are not the same in all member states. that is why i am opposed to the creation of further legislation which will not make the problems of equal opportunities and discrimination disappear. i believe that discrimination against disabled people, whose specific situation requires the urgent development of a comprehensive proposal and, above all, its implementation at the level of member states' laws, requires a separate examination. i hope that the european commission will soon take up this initiative.
in writing. - indirect and direct discrimination on grounds of sex, age or disability is still present in europe. the online portal pracuj.pl conducted a survey among working people, job seekers, employers, students and graduates. according to the survey, the most discriminated against groups in the labour market are people aged over 50 and the disabled. the most common manifestation of discrimination in the labour market is the use of prejudices and stereotypes in selecting a job candidate - nearly 62% of respondents consider this a major problem. next in line are: unequal access to job offers/no suitable job offers (56%), reluctance to take on a permanent/contractual job (44%) and lower than average wages in the environment or industry (43%). i believe that anti-discrimination policy, as one of the eu's fundamental principles, has a special role to play in this respect.
in writing. - in discussing the report by mr piecik on the eu's integrated maritime policy, i would like to draw attention to the implementation of the water framework directive, which takes into account the activities on the identification and disposal of post-world war ii chemical weapons in the baltic and north seas. i'm talking about the nord stream pipeline, which could disrupt the world war ii-era weapons that are right here on the bottom of the baltic sea. according to preliminary estimates, there are about 40,000 to 60,000 tons of chemical munitions, including about 12,000 to 13,000 tons of combat poisons. the exact location of many of these weapons is not even known, so the risk of disaster is enormous. in addition, chemicals that are harmful to the environment are to be used when the pipeline is started. this could lead to a very serious environmental disaster. this is a direct threat to the health and life of the people living on the baltic sea coast. the report mentions the aim of making 'europe's oceans and seas the cleanest in the world'. i therefore call on the european commission to take concrete action on an integrated maritime policy and to ban the construction of projects that threaten the safety of europe's citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the activities of companies engaged in unfair commercial and marketing practices are only to be condemned. we must protect consumers' rights against such pseudo-market activities and support them in their fight against companies which feel completely impunity in the current european reality. after all, thousands of companies across europe are being duped into paying hundreds to thousands of euros for what they claim is free advertising in business directories. however, the publishers of these worthless catalogues - from a business and advertising point of view - do not only target specific industries such as tourist agencies, the hotel industry, doctors, restaurateurs or even the world of science, but also unfortunately address government offices and institutions. therefore, eu citizens ask how it is that the authors of these practices, identified by name as the owners of the companies that publish these catalogues, could make their fortunes through fraudulent and dishonest practices, exploiting the fear of small european entrepreneurs of companies and recovery courts. i therefore ask the slovenian presidency, and more the presidency than the commission, to start coordinating the member states' activities, mainly in terms of exchanging information and warning each other against such fraudulent practices, to provide information on the owners and the boards of these companies, and to propose the introduction of stricter criminal sanctions for such activities. the continuation of the current situation undermines the confidence of economic operators and citizens in the european union in the idea of a european single market and unfortunately blurs the distinction between honest business and quasi-mafia activities.
mr. chairman, please! congratulations to congresswoman mccarthy on a well-prepared oral question on the unfair practices of advertising companies based on the city guide. the committee on petitions, of which i am chairman, has appointed mr busuttil to prepare a report on this matter. we've received a huge number of petitions right now complaining about these practices. the commission representative said that the commission had not received such complaints to be able to open an investigation into this matter, but i think that this debate today, and the debate that will take place on the basis of the report by mr busuttil, will be sufficient reason for the commission to take up this matter, because these are practices that are hugely unfair and harass small businesses and ordinary people, that is, those who do not have an army of lawyers to defend them. i urge the commission to look into this matter.
mr. chairman, please! in such a short statement, it is possible to address only the basic issues related to the documents we are discussing. it's worth remembering that our goal is a free market. free market also in these services road services. and indeed, from this point of view, the documents we are talking about are a kind of service directive, aimed at this particular market. so the second thing to note is that all the tightening and the shortcuts that we are using here - for example, the solutions for transitional periods, cabotage, 2014 - are partial solutions that should not take us off this main road, that is, maximum market openness. finally, it should be stressed that certain specific constraints associated with this specific market, such as working time, environmental or traffic safety solutions, are of course very important here, but we should not forget where, for example, the safety line is and where the social negotiations are.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing this at a very specific moment - we have lost a good transport commissioner, mr jacques barrot - and we are waiting for a new commissioner. by the way, i was wondering if the nominee for commissioner would be listening in on our discussion today, because i think that would be justified in every way. we are talking about the road transport sector, which has enabled a 40% increase in trade between our countries in the last five years. this is the sector that is actually keeping europe moving. well, i think we need as much freedom as possible, including in the cabotage. at the same time, however, as much firmness as possible is needed, especially in combating the practices of the so-called wild coach companies, which simply corrupt the market. the sanction of withdrawal of authorisation is an inapplicable sanction because they did not have and do not have such authorisation. but across the sector, i see a number of significant risks: the price of fuel and its rise, the way in which external transport costs are internalised, the way in which working time is enforced and, i have the impression that the profitability of transport companies is falling in general. i would therefore like to give my very warm support to the proposal by mr wille piecik that the bus and coach issue be discussed and voted on in june. i support mr sterckx's view that a new study on the effects of market opening is needed, but that it should also be combined with an assessment of the economic situation of the road transport sector.
mr. chairman, please! the aim of the european commission decision to be discussed by parliament is to develop harmonised rules for the accessibility of the mobile satellite communications service in all member states. the need for community solutions is, of course, justified by the cross-border nature of satellite communications. however, the particular importance of this solution, which requires the necessary diligence to be maintained in the course of the proceedings, must not be overlooked. particular care should be taken to ensure that these bands are a tangible complement to terrestrial mobile communications networks, especially in areas affected by the phenomenon of 'digital exclusion'. it is simply not possible to allow excessive fragmentation of the use of a given part of the spectrum and, worse, to frustrate the expected economic effects.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in my country, poland, the average level of education of women is higher than the average level of education of men. as a physicist by profession, employed at the university of warsaw, i myself have not experienced discrimination on the basis of gender. i would be humiliated if my professional position were not determined by my knowledge and intellectual capacity and other secondary characteristics, such as gender. maria skłodowska-curie's work and passion for discovery led to results for which she was twice awarded the nobel prize. the rector of my university, the first in poland, is also a woman, a professor of physics. however, the reality of women in science is not uniform. the fact that only 35% of women are employed as academic staff in the public sector and higher education in the european union, and only 18% in the private sector, indicates problems. sometimes it's because you put family obligations ahead of academic challenges, but not always. i consider the indications in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this report to be relevant. it is in the early stages of education that it is easiest to show that science may be difficult, but it is always exciting, and that it is worth making some effort to discover what we find interesting and what we cannot find out otherwise than through scientific research. it is worth encouraging anyone who is capable of doing scientific work, and many women have such abilities, and it would be a shame to lose this potential. the patterns mentioned in paragraph 3 are not without significance here, indicating that this effort is producing results. in line with the lisbon strategy, but also independently, it is extremely important to invest in people, in their education. it increases his chances in the job market. this also applies to the specific labour market of the scientific sphere. it is therefore important that all internships, inter-university exchanges and similar career opportunities are non-discriminatory in terms of access criteria.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the role of women in science seems to vary across the eu. in the very difficult communist times, women in poland had access to science and political rights much earlier than in many countries of the old union. in the past, as now, the problem is more the poor economic situation and the unclear criteria for awarding research funds, usually regardless of gender. despite these barriers, there are many women who, as wives and mothers, fulfil important social functions, being ministers, directors, deans and professors of universities, doctors, without feeling discriminated against by men. contrary to the strong feminist opinion, women in my country are generally respected, not for having complexes, but for having a sense of their worth and strength, knowing that by working with men, they play an important role in all areas of life, but most of all for valuing the defense of life, the protection of marriage, the family and other higher values. the proportion of women in education is continuing to increase, reaching 51% in the 1990s. according to reports, women account for 38% of researchers in the cee countries, although a large proportion are employed in fields where research expenditure is low. proposals to provide higher resources, to encourage scientific work and to further empower women, especially through legal regulations to reconcile family and professional life, including financial and social recognition of domestic work, with a view to genuine freedom of choice, but without parities and changing the definition of excellence, seem therefore justified. the percentage differentiation in management positions can be associated with considerable psychophysical effort as too burdensome, therefore the representation of women should be done through the recognition and use of knowledge and individual predispositions together with the improvement of legal and economic conditions, support infrastructure that facilitates the reconciliation of family and professional life.
women represent over 50% of students and over 43% of doctorates in the european union, but on average they occupy only 15% of senior academic posts and are a minority among researchers. in the public sector, higher education represents on average 35% of academic staff, and in the private sector, only 18%. analyses show that existing recruitment systems are not gender neutral. the existence of a so-called 'glass ceiling' for women to enter management positions is a well-documented phenomenon affecting all sectors of the economy, especially those related to science and technology. the commission and the member states should, as soon as possible, introduce transparent recruitment procedures ensuring gender balance in recruitment bodies. as research is a key sector for the european union's economic development and the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs calls for an additional 700 000 researchers in a united europe, it is important to programme science as a gender-sensitive field and to ensure that women are adequately represented among researchers. to achieve this, it is necessary to provide adequate working conditions that are conducive to women scientists and an infrastructure that allows a smooth reconciliation of work and family life. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs thomsen, on a very well-written document.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the member on a very good report. increasing participation in scientific research is essential to achieve the lisbon strategy. as the rapporteur emphasises, europe needs 700 000 additional researchers to achieve the objectives of the strategy. i believe that the commitment and potential of women themselves will make women a high percentage of this group. however, i am concerned about the proposal to ensure gender balance in assessment teams and recruitment boards. as a female politician, i would not like my activism to be judged solely by my gender. i prefer to be defined by the quality and results of my work. the proposal to increase the interest of young people in pursuing higher education in scientific and technical fields is interesting. this should be accompanied by actions promoting science as an area of interest for work and professional development for both women and men. i think that the proposals to combine career and family life are worth considering. they should be considered in a broader context, in the context of supporting and promoting women's participation in the labour market.
the socialist position, which is also a spanish point of view, was presented by my distinguished colleague martínez martínez. i would therefore like to speak not so much about mercury as about the very example of a region whose basic activity is being rapidly changed. as a representative of a new country, i know the pain of the regions in the time of transformation that we went through in the early 1990s. it is with great satisfaction that i can say that the european commission and parliament are not prepared to leave almadén to its fate. whether 2 million euros is enough is another question. but the important thing is that this is the way we approach it, and it's a great value.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate mr blokland, who has done a good job this time, as he always does. robert evans said he saw a ship being dismantled in bangladesh. i've seen cases of shipwrecks on the polish and eastern european borders, of fishing, passenger, cargo and warships being abandoned somewhere on the coast, washed away by the sea. so we're talking about the first step, which is disassembly. the second step, it seems, will be a sort of dismantling obligation. finally, the third step is recycling, which is what kind of material is used to build ships, how these materials are incorporated and how these materials can be recovered. so this is a process that we're starting. because i'm an economist, not an idealist, i think it's a pretty long road, but it's very good that we're starting and hopefully we'll find some followers in the world.
mr. chairman, please! i have long been appalled by the pseudo-scientific speeches that are being made in the heart of europe, in the chamber of parliament, from where the wisdom of the world's best scientific evidence should be coming. well, there are as many scientists who say that we are not able to change climate change with any of the means available to mankind today as there are those who say that we can. ladies and gentlemen! what if they're right? and we will throw at the supposed climate change a monstrously large amount of resources that will inevitably reduce the well-being of humanity, and especially of europe, that we will condemn the nations of europe to a civilized country in relation to others who will develop faster in that time. and if the chairman of the parliamentary committee is only using the opinion of a few scientists, if commissioner dimas is not applying all the known scientific studies on such an important matter, if a mythology is being created, then i strongly protest against this, because this type of action can only be carried out on the basis of irrefutable scientific evidence.
mr. chairman, please! i shall not say anything new if i start by congratulating and thanking the rapporteur for a great report. the international community has recently received a document from the ipcc that provides a broad scientific analysis of the problem of global warming. we are talking about it in our report and in our resolution. most researchers, as well as the governments of the countries participating in the panel a hundred or so countries accepted this document at the ipcc fourth forum. but there are also voices denying the value of the document. we heard them in this room, too. so it's worth looking at these controversies first. first, though, today almost everyone agrees that global warming is real, even if, temporarily, some part of the earth is colder than it has been in years. so, warming seems indisputable, thanks in part to the ipcc report. and it's not so much that we need to be showing more evidence of the coming global warming cataclysm, but rather that we need to be showing and proving what's causing the global warming. remember, the vast majority of scientists who are serious about this issue agree that man is largely, but not exclusively, responsible for global warming. in particular, the emission of greenhouse gases. however, it is worthwhile to make further efforts to document and prove this claim. the study of the causes of warming should be pursued with determination, and this should also be an important conclusion of our considerations. but today, remember, this is the most important thing, the probability that the warming is caused by human-made greenhouse gases is so high that we have to act. the european union has therefore become a world leader in reducing emissions. but it is all the more important for us europeans to reach a global agreement on this issue in poznan and copenhagen. let's remember that we can't save the planet on our own. but to neglect our own actions today would be inexcusable. this is our civic responsibility.
on behalf of the uen group. this very good report will not be an easy read in ankara. on the one hand, we see the efforts: the adoption of the law on foundations, the reform of the penal code in terms of freedom of expression, the announcement of changes in the constitution. on the other hand, there are still unresolved issues concerning the religious freedom of non-muslims, the interference of the ecumenical patriarchate, the laxness of the investigation into the murder of hrant dink and the three christians from malataya. we have a breach of the terms of the association agreement. we covered every one of these cases last year. time seems to go very slowly over the bosphorus. perhaps, instead of forcing the process of full integration, we should create today a legal framework for cooperation between turkey and the union that is better suited to these two partners. this framework can significantly outweigh the political weight of the european neighbourhood. the alternative package will not cause the tensions that are seen in ankara and in european capitals over the debate on turkey's full membership of the european union.
madam president! with all due respect to the turkish people and given the centuries of direct relations and neighbourhood between my country and turkey, i believe that turkey's membership of the european union is a complete misunderstanding. turkey, despite centuries of territorial presence in europe, is not a civilized european country. we should do our best to work with turkey, but the implications of a muslim country joining the european club are unimaginable. the current situation in turkey does not indicate that the authorities in ankara are moving closer to integration with europe. in addition to relations with the european union, i would also like to draw attention to turkey's relations with armenia. i am glad that in the draft resolution of this parliament we are calling on the turkish government to end the economic blockade. it's a pity there's nothing in the document about the crimes committed against the armenians.
since ataturk, the turkish mentality has changed little. religious tradition sets them on their own paths, different from the european one, geographical proximity does not give them cultural marriage, and there is no aspiration towards a european identity in unwritten social codes. the question is whether turkey is willing to change and adopt our socio-political model, because the cosmetics of article 301 contradict this. should we order the turks and tell them what to do? the socialists in the amendments want to impose ideological solutions on the turks, and they are happy with what they have. progress on reform is sluggish, and the military still has a lot to say. is it possible, then, to make a nation happy, to change its identity, tradition and culture? is that even changeable? madam president! the council decided to negotiate in good faith to make turkey a bridge between europe and islam, and now it is not convinced of this decision itself. we're left with wishful thinking.
it's about the nassau report. i voted for the report. although uniform rules are in place in all the member states of the community, the way in which they are enforced varies. this encourages the reprehensible practice of dishonest traders to locate their business in countries where criminal sanctions for environmental crimes are more lenient. this is particularly true of the new member states of the european union. it should be emphasised that organised crime is playing an increasing role and that environmental crime is increasingly transnational. i agree with the rapporteur that the legal framework of the proposed directives is an important contribution to effective environmental protection and can guarantee uniform and fair enforcement of environmental law in the community. in order to effectively enforce the law and effectively reduce environmental crime, it is necessary to provide adequately trained services. the proposal to clarify the obligations of the member states in this respect is therefore justified. attention, my british colleague, there seems to be some mistake. we are not creating a new community law which imposes sanctions, that has proved impossible. we urge the member states to introduce legislation in their national laws to ensure that the penalties for similar offences are uniform throughout europe.
mr. chairman, please! we have adopted today a very important report on the fight against climate change, which is closely linked to energy problems. we're seeing more and more droughts, floods, desertification, melting glaciers. i don't think anyone doubts that our climate is changing. the resulting warming is causing social, economic and environmental problems. to protect our planet, our earth, it is up to all of us, all of the nations and all of the communities around the world, to slow or stop further increases in co2 and other greenhouse gases. we need to promote green investments, we need to promote clean energy, we need to promote energy-efficient installations, and most of all, we need to convince people to save energy, to increase their knowledge and awareness. that's the fastest way to get the effect. we need to find a compromise when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the union. the new member states of the union should be treated slightly differently from the most developed countries, so that they have a chance to catch up with the significant differences in the level of economic development.
mr. chairman, please! we've received an important report. all these changes that have taken place in turkey in connection with the accession negotiations should be appreciated and supported. turkey, due to its unique geopolitical position, is a strategic partner of the union in its relations with the countries of the black sea basin, central asia and the middle east. it is also crucial for ensuring europe's energy security, as it is the gateway for the transport of energy resources from the caspian and black sea regions. turkey also has enormous economic potential. a dynamic economy, a huge internal market, a working age population - all of these will undoubtedly contribute to the future growth of the european economy. another important aspect of turkey's accession is that, as a muslim country and a member of the union, it can play a significant role in the development of western relations with the islamic world.
in writing. - mercury is one of the most potent environmental poisons. it's a metal that under normal conditions is a liquid with a high vapor density. it is not biodegradable and therefore persists in the environment for a very long time, accumulating in food chains that can enter the human body in significant concentrations. the development of industry has made mercury a metal with special properties and a low cost of extraction. the use of mercury in the production of energy-saving lighting seems difficult to eliminate. it is therefore necessary to develop effective collection systems for such waste and to apply safe disposal technologies to prevent further environmental degradation. one of the largest mercury poisoning incidents occurred in japan between 1953 and 1960. the inhabitants of minamata bay were massively ill, showing signs of nerve damage, which was often the cause of death. the eu should make every effort to ensure that mercury is stored safely. the export of metallic mercury should be banned.
in writing. - caring for the environment is our common responsibility. but the world is not handling it well, and it is being downplayed and put off. in 1998, the european council decided to protect the environment through criminal law. the adoption of the new directive has defined a set of offences which are subject to criminal sanctions in all member states. i believe that the responsibility of manufacturers, exporters, importers and carriers for their products and services should be further emphasised, so that there is no room for manipulation and evasion of responsibility. however, in order to enforce the new rules and reduce environmental crime, measures are needed to provide the necessary resources, training for staff, etc. i believe that the budget of the european union should provide funds, at least for the new member states, which have a lot of work to do in a short period of time. the objectives set out above can only be achieved through the solidarity of all member states. otherwise, regional disparities will only grow.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law (com (2007) 0051) because the introduction of new legal rules and the definition of a community-wide minimum list of environmental crimes will ensure more effective application of community law. although the rules are uniform in all the member states of the community, the way in which they are applied varies, this encourages the reprehensible practice of dishonest traders to locate their business in countries where criminal penalties for offences are more lenient. this is particularly true for the new member states. it should be emphasised that organised crime is playing an increasing role and that environmental crime is increasingly transnational. i agree with the rapporteur that the legal framework set out in the proposal for a directive is an important contribution to effective environmental protection and can guarantee uniform and fair enforcement of environmental law in the eu. in order to effectively enforce the law and effectively reduce crime, it is necessary to provide adequately trained services. the proposal to clarify the obligations of the member states in this respect is therefore justified. the adoption of a set of environmental offences and related criminal sanctions will be a very important instrument in the uniform enforcement of environmental law in the eu.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i am in favour of simplifying reporting procedures and forms of communication between public administrations and businesses. the bureaucratic requirements for entrepreneurs are absurdly extensive these days. the report is intended to improve communication and, in addition, recommends the implementation of xbrl, which is an open standard, i.e. accessible even to the smallest companies. i have therefore decided to support this report.
in writing. − the commission's communication on a simplified business environment for enterprises in the areas of company law, accounting and auditing proposes measures to reduce administrative burdens and to ensure that european companies can compete effectively on a global scale. not only do member states not use optional measures to reduce red tape, but they often back up community concessions with stricter national rules, depriving local businesses of the possibility of simplifying procedures under eu law. the commission should therefore focus on encouraging member states to harmonise the classification of financial reporting requirements and to embrace new technologies to reduce costs. moreover, a solution in the form of a common corporate tax base would make the statute of the european company more useful and effective. the proposal to exclude 'micro-enterprises' from the application of the accounting directives is also welcome, which would in practice mean exempting them from the obligation to keep accounts, to submit annual accounts or to publish reports required by european legislation. the proposed solutions are commendable, but further simplification of the union acquis in the area of company law and its effective implementation in the member states appear to be necessary for european businesses to compete successfully in an increasingly demanding global market.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the european union is not seen as a friendly area in the sense of simplicity in the rules of doing business. rather, it is widely believed that this is an over-regulated area, against global standards, which creates particular difficulties for small businesses. therefore, any step towards simplification of the rules, as announced in the european commission's communication of 10 july 2007, should be welcomed. the most important and desirable effect of simplification should be to encourage small firms to operate in the european single market, which has so far been difficult for new businesses from central and eastern europe to access. the measure to achieve this is not only the repeal of redundant provisions, in the two variants proposed by the commission, but also the harmonisation of national provisions. however, this does not mean tax harmonisation, as is suggested in paragraph 23 of mr lehne's report in the 'soft' form of the harmonisation of the corporate tax base. the rapporteur favours the second of the options proposed by the commission, which is more modest and which, in the light of the european union's regulatory inclinations so far, would in any case reverse the unfavourable trend that undoubtedly reduces the competitive chances of european companies on the global market.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? despite increasing access to higher education and an increasing number of female university graduates, we still see a low representation of women in top academic positions. women, although they represent the majority of the teaching staff (over 50%), are mostly in lower positions. i support taking into account the needs of families by allowing flexible working hours, better childcare services and access to social security abroad and to provide parental leave conditions that give men and women freedom of choice. the interruptions that women take in their scientific careers for family reasons must not have a negative impact on their future career opportunities and thus give men an advantage in pursuing a scientific career. i supported the report by mrs britta thomsen because i think it rightly raised the issue of gender stereotypes which are still present in many countries of the european union.
in writing. - as a female professor who has worked for many years at a polish university, i am aware of the importance of the issue and therefore support britta thomsen's report. the report is interesting in that it tackles the issue of gender discrimination in science, and identifies the social, cultural and economic barriers that still leave women underrepresented in science. we are few in the public sector and higher education (35%) and only 18% in the private sector. how can we without women in science build a knowledge-based society, develop european science and economy, meet the challenges of the lisbon strategy and meet the expectations of europeans at the dawn of the 21st century? the conditions must therefore be created to allow women to be more widely involved in scientific life, to open the doors not only to academic laboratories but also to the highest academic positions. it is a shame that in a world of science where advancement is determined by merit, women are three times less likely to be appointed to a professorship than men. and it's not just because they're more involved in their family life. it is difficult to implement gender equality policies in european universities, since women are so rarely members of their decision-making bodies. the shameful example of the european research council, where only five women sit on the 22-member scientific council, is enough.
in writing. − women's participation in the labour market is steadily increasing throughout the european union. poland is no exception, although the participation of women in the labour market in poland is still below the eu average. however, i would like to emphasize that polish women are much more likely than their western counterparts to hold senior positions. it's very important to me that women are activated professionally. the situation of women scientists must also be considered in this context, since it coincides with the situation of all women who are faced with the need to reconcile professional obligations with family life. however, i do not think that the way to increase women's participation in the labour market should be through the establishment of parities. the qualifications and competences that women have acquired through appropriate education should be the primary determinants of employment. proposals to make recruitment procedures, competitions for management posts and the award of research grants more transparent seem to be appropriate. however, these changes should be accompanied by labour market reforms. science in the eu needs support. given the importance of science for economic development, we should be keen to promote science and technology as attractive fields of study for both sexes. so we should focus on encouraging young people to take up these fields of study.
in writing. - women have made a major contribution to the development of science. a fine example is the polish nobel laureate in physics and chemistry, maria skłodowska-curie. the university, the hospital, the street are named after this scholar. women face greater challenges than men in choosing a career in science. this includes the birth and rearing of children. therefore, women scientists should be supported by developing preferential maternity leave conditions, special grants for women who are raising children and working in parallel with their scientific work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. careers and research should not be determined by gender but by personal choice, ability and knowledge.
in writing. -history teaches that theories widely accepted as true in the past may, based on new scientific discoveries, be unsupported by facts. i believe that the science of climate change, of warming, is not yet well established. certainly not enough to create laws with a clear conscience to create certain attitudes of the european community countries. the increase in the average temperature of the earth's atmosphere is one thing, but the question of how much human activity has contributed to it remains unanswered. the scientific community is divided. some scientists believe that large climate fluctuations are a natural phenomenon that has been cycling on earth for thousands of years, and the appeals of climate scientists are designed to instill fear in people so that they can finance their research. others argue that man's ability to predict long-term climate change is limited, accusing the ipcc of being a political, not a scientific, agency. another controversial point is the supposedly large number of scientists who support the theory of man-made climate change. the counter-arguments presented above are readily available. they are also undeniable, leaving doubt, but also the question: "can we build coherent policy in any field on the uncertain scientific arguments put forward by lobby groups?"
madam president, firstly let me express my heartfelt sympathy for all the burmese people who have been bereaved or injured by the effects of cyclone nargis. the people of burma are in the thoughts and prayers of many europeans. however, our condolences are not enough. we must discuss practical measures and see how we can implement them so that we alleviate the suffering of the survivors. many countries and international organisations are both willing and able to provide immediate humanitarian aid; they have been for a matter of weeks now. unfortunately, the ruling military authorities consider the preservation of their own power as of prime importance; the suffering of their own people seems to be of little consequence. they fear any kind of foreign involvement in burma, even if this is of aid workers. the commissioner’s first-hand account of his discussions with the burmese military authorities makes for sobering listening and there is not much hope that the burmese authorities will change their position. so while we talk and wring our hands in dismay over the impossibility of getting the burmese authorities to accept help and over the impotence of asean, hundreds of thousands are suffering. the un security council can and should call on its principle of responsibility to protect and provide aid without the consent of the burmese authorities. i would strongly urge the uk government – which currently holds the presidency of the security council – to sanction immediate airdrops of aid. the burmese authorities are responsible for a crime against humanity, but we cannot sit by passively allowing them to continue in this crime. and while i agree that an airdrop is not the ideal way of getting aid into a country – for we would rather have trained aid workers distributing help – it is better than nothing, so, please, let us get some help in and let us get it in now.
mankind has not yet learned to prevent the tragedies that natural disasters bring. they turn into a real disaster when they affect countries ruled by dictators. we see this today in the tragedy of the burmese people, who were victims of the cyclone and the military regime. how heartless the generals who rule burma are, we learned when they refused to let the international community help save the burmese they could not help themselves. such actions are a crime committed with premeditation against the entire nation. despite the outrage of the international community, the burmese generals continue to commit crimes. humanitarian aid is most likely going to military personnel and their families or is being trafficked. meanwhile, the need for food is growing because of widespread famine and disease. the situation of burmese orphans is also of particular concern, as there are increasing reports of them being targeted by human traffickers seeking sex slaves for brothels around the world. ladies and gentlemen! respect for human rights does not mean merely refraining from torture, murder, and arrest by the authorities. failure to provide assistance to the victims of a disaster or obstructing it is tantamount to committing the crime of genocide.
madam president, in today’s debate i would like to raise three issues. first, the problem of a new constitution. the myanmar junta announced that a pro-military constitution has won overwhelming support in the referendum which was held despite widespread criticism and the needs of a national tragedy. human rights groups have dismissed the vote as a mockery. a referendum conducted in those conditions has to be of dubious credibility. probably it will be impossible to hold the second round of voting in most areas of the irrawaddy delta on 24 may. second, there is a more general problem about sanctions, particularly eu sanctions. do they really work? the people most affected are the population at large. some observers – seasoned journalists, diplomats, former eu ambassadors in south-east asia – say that isolating burma in this way does not help. third and last but not least, the time has come for the un security council to act. the united nations security council should insist that aid deliveries and humanitarian workers be given unfettered access to burma. the eu countries delivering aid should insist on monitoring to ensure that aid reaches the cyclone victims most in need.
on behalf of the uen group. europe should show china maximum support, not only for humanitarian reasons but also for political reasons. i am one of a very large number of members of this house who strongly disagree with china's barbaric policies towards tibet and christians. i believe we should respond with full force to any aggression against taiwan. but on the other hand, we must take every opportunity to show the chinese that our expectations of beijing are not an aggression against their country and their traditions, that a friendly partnership is possible. that's the kind of opportunity that just came along. we should be doing extraordinary work for the victims and extraordinary work to repair the damage caused by the recent disaster. it would be a huge mistake not to take this opportunity to build trust between europe and china.
madam president, this is the time when we show solidarity and sympathy to china. in these tragic days we have seen victims; we have seen a great tragedy of society in china. i have been impressed by the way in which the chinese authorities have behaved – state leaders, administrative, provincial and party leaders – the behaviour of the chinese state has been rational, something good at this time. but at the same time, as a human rights politician, i have to report to parliament that, according to the tibetan centre for human rights and democracy, 55 nuns were arrested on 14 may. that is a reality too in these days in china. the earthquake cannot become a pretext for human rights abuses.
once again, nature has proved man's helplessness in the face of great disasters and calamities. a devastating earthquake has struck china, the world's most populous nation, a country with a booming economy that is preparing for the upcoming olympics. the chinese are comparing this disaster to previous mega-disasters that have accompanied the country's great historical transformation. i don't know if that's the way to interpret this terrible event, but i do know that at a time like this, we must express our solidarity with the tens of thousands of ordinary women, men and children who are heroically enduring this personal and national tragedy. it is therefore good that today the european parliament is sending a clear signal to the chinese people that we members are with them, that we sympathize with them and want to help them, because the principle of solidarity is one of our most important eu values.
madam president! i would like to express my deepest sympathy to all those who have suffered and lost loved ones in china. my condolences to those who have lost children, wives and husbands. last week, when this terrible disaster happened, i was in china, in beijing and shanghai. i was opening a food fair in shanghai on behalf of parliament. it happened on monday, just as i arrived i immediately sent letters of condolence to the ambassador in poland and in brussels. i had the opportunity to see firsthand on television what it was like, i could see the human tragedy and the tremendous help from the people, the government and the military - immediate help, unprecedented support for the victims of the tragedy. i thank all the member states, the union, for their help today, and i thank you for what you are doing today, for your gesture of solidarity in this debate, and i think that this help will be needed.
and i see two reactions to china. first, the tragedy that happened there, we can't do anything about it except help. so it's our moral duty to do that, partly because we're better off economically and financially. and that's our job. the second observation is that we should not forget that in a normal situation, when there is no such disaster, we should help the chinese - i mean the chinese citizens - by admonishing their authorities about their rights. and we have to do it very firmly, too. it's about responding appropriately to each situation in parallel. and it will be legible, and i think the chinese will recognize that and be grateful to us for that.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. caution is reason enough to work toward the effective elimination of depleted uranium weapons. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from the effects of nuclear weapons is a very good one. however, a moratorium on the use of such weapons can be introduced today and the issue can be taken into account in a renewed european security strategy. the task today is to begin work on an international treaty based on the un system that would regulate the use, production, stockpiling and testing of these weapons.
depleted uranium is 70% heavier than lead, and therefore even a very small-caliber projectile can, with its kinetic energy, pierce through the armor of a tank. and that's what made this depleted uranium so useful in military thinking. and there's about a million and a half tons of depleted uranium in the world. so it's understandable that it was a temptation. but it turns out that the effectiveness of these weapons is not as high as expected: 70% of the destruction of iraqi tanks were the destruction of other weapons. the problem, of course, is the effects of using these weapons. and let's be clear, there is no final solution here. after all, thousands of people work in uranium mines for many years, and there are no such obvious effects. but the case is still, of course, questionable and for that reason, we have to decide on a moratorium to finally clarify the matter.
the chairman of the council. - very short. i want to thank you for this discussion. i would like to reiterate that the council remains very active on external security issues in line with the european security strategy, in line with the european strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. these strategies keep the council's priorities up to date and take account of new developments in these areas, which are then reflected in the updated documents. one example is the measure adopted by the council in support of the universalisation of the convention on the prohibition or restriction of the use of certain conventional weapons. interestingly, protocol 5 of this convention aims to minimize the formation of explosive remnants of war after the end of conflicts. and interestingly, the major manufacturers and users of weapons containing depleted uranium are already signatories to the convention. it's too early to tell. i have mentioned the situation in the council, as is clear from the vote on the resolution of the first committee of the general assembly, which has been mentioned several times today. it is hoped that discussions such as the one currently taking place in the european parliament will contribute to establishing a consensus in the council on this issue in the near future. thank you so much.
member of the commission. - mr president, very quickly, i will of course take note and pass on to my colleague, mrs benita ferrero-waldner, and to the commission the excellent reflections i have heard and the concrete proposals that have been made. i would remind you, of course, that the commission's action is very limited. it can, of course, have a declamatory, incantatory power, it can make proposals, but it is not competent beyond that. i still want to remember it. that said, i take it as a clear message that there is a need to guarantee transparency, as mrs morgantini said. i quite broadly share that view. she's making a proposal for a moratorium, and i'll pass that on. i also seem to have seen the need, if not the possibility, of updating the studies that have been carried out. there is no reason why these studies should not be updated. i am sure that in due course initiatives will be taken or, at any rate, ideas will be transmitted and there will be a spirit of voluntarism, because what belgium has been able to do, it is obvious that we should hope that all the other european countries will be able to do it. i am not saying this because it is belgium, but i am of course glad to see that belgium has done so. it's a bit like what you wanted. so there are certainly useful and interesting sources of inspiration, but i want you to know that i will pass on the suggestions and comments as well as the requests that have been made here, with conviction and sincerity.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 22 may 2008. (the sitting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 6.00 p.m.)
the next item is the report by mrs romana jordan cizelj, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the mid-term review of industrial policy and its contribution to the eu strategy for growth and jobs (2007/2257 (ini)) (a6-0167/2008).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate mr jordan cizelj on an excellent, very comprehensive report. it contains everything that should be there, but i also wanted to congratulate commissioner verheugen, the vice-president of the european commission, on the speech he has just given, because i can support it in its entirety. i'll start by saying that there was a saying once that the best industrial policy is no industrial policy. today, fortunately, is different, we've grown out of it. the lisbon strategy is mainly an industrial action. so manufacturing, products, competitive products, and that's industries from small and medium-sized businesses to large corporations. i think that for our industry, for our industry, from the smallest to the largest, there are five things that are important. they were moving, but i'd like to reinforce. first, there is innovation. this requires research and development, of course, but that is another problem (the 7th framework programme in the european union and also the national programmes). but to do that, we need two very important things, and that is to create the macroeconomic conditions so that innovation, new technologies, and not, for example, public aid, win in the market. secondly, to create these opportunities for banks and encourage them to take on risky loans, because innovation is risk. thirdly, we must counteract monopolies in our market. that's what we're talking about now, and that's what we're talking about in the context of the free energy market. as you know, it is not that simple, but at the same time we must protect our market from dumping from outside the european union. fourth, we need to simplify the law, apply better regulation. any action that the european commission takes on this matter, commissioner verheugen, any such action must be supported. fifthly, we must create the basis for genuine solidarity in energy and raw materials, without which there can be no industrial development. implement far-reaching standardisation and finally policy coordination also at union level and linkage with member states' policies. just as regional policy in each country is coordinated in some way at national level, so the policy of each member state must be coordinated from the top. and finally, the last point, environmental and climate standards, we have to follow them. we intend to remain a leader in this field, but we must do so with moderation for the good of our industry.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to pay tribute to the work of the rapporteur. the review provides a satisfactory picture of the state of many union industries. but we must be aware of the challenges facing our community. these are, above all, the dynamics of technological change, especially in relation to new materials, the need to save energy and water, environmental protection and demographic conditions affecting the labour market. we need to improve our approach to innovation across all areas, from technical to organisational, legal and financial. the existing legal and administrative barriers, and even bureaucratic ones, do not help the competitiveness of our industry's products. let us ask here about the path from idea to production, about european patents and inventions. it is therefore necessary to ensure that solutions are friendly to small, medium and large enterprises alike. european products should and can win with their design attractiveness, performance, excellent quality, creativity and excellent service.
mr henin, the time was not established by us, it was established by your group. unfortunately, you have got one minute and thirty seconds. so, if you protest, just send this protest to your group.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i have had great satisfaction in hearing what you have to say. i would like to refer to three moments. firstly, you have stressed the need to individualise the approach to certain transport sectors. secondly, some regions need more support. and the third is innovation. we have global industries and local industries. well, i'm referring to the shipbuilding industry. an industry that is typically associated with coastal regions, however, this applies not only to poland, but also to other eu member states, for example malta which is in a difficult situation as one of the global industries. i'm not going to let you do this. contracts are for many years. because three years ago it was not assumed that the dollar would fall against the euro, the dollar and the euro would fall against, say, the polish currency, this led to very significant economic problems. i would also like to see you refer to the protection of the european shipbuilding industry in the european union's policy, so that we can find ways of supporting it, precisely in these global conditions, in competition with chinese or indonesian shipyards. i think it will be particularly close to you as an honorary doctor of the university of szczecin.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, i want to highlight two problems. first, as a result of the financial crisis and, as a consequence, the economic crisis in the united states, the level of economic growth and employment in the european union will be lower than previously forecast, both in 2008 and in 2009. this can cause serious problems, especially for the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. secondly, the ambitious targets adopted by the european commission for the reduction of co2 emissions by european industry, at a time when most countries in the world are at least cautious, will raise production costs in europe and slow down economic growth. in addition, the distribution of co2 emissions between member states, without taking into account the delay in their development, has a negative impact on what will happen in european manufacturing. this has affected new countries in a drastic way, including particularly hard on coal-based economies like my country's economy. both of these problems, and in particular their impact on economic development and employment in the union, appear to be ignored in the report under consideration.
mr. chairman, please! the new lisbon cycle 2008-2010 should focus on industrial policy, as a thriving industry is crucial to the full exploitation of the european union's economic potential. although industrial policy is largely a national competence, there is a need for better coordination between national and european action to ensure the effectiveness of policies. the new sustainable industrial strategy action plan should take into account elements such as better regulation, reducing administrative burdens, particularly those affecting small and medium-sized enterprises. they are one of the main drivers of economic growth and strengthen europe's competitiveness through their innovation potential, dynamism and flexibility. in addition, environmental objectives such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving energy efficiency should be taken into account, as the advantage of using innovative solutions could make european industry a world leader in environmentally and socially acceptable technologies, products and services.
i'm not going to let you do this. the modernisation of the european industrial policy, the new approach, the reduction of regulation, the increase in competitiveness, the innovation are all associated with commissioner verheugen, and i want to make this clear. we all agree that excessive regulation of businesses should be reduced, including the reduction of administrative burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. we have set high standards for industry, for quality, for environmental standards, for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, for energy efficiency, for providing good working conditions. it increases costs, but we also want to make sure that the products we produce are competitive in the market. how do you do that? how is that possible? finally, i would like to say that the union and its industry need workers with the right skills, adapted to the needs of the knowledge-based economy. it is therefore necessary to encourage the qualitative improvement of human capital, all kinds of training, and to finance expenditure on human development.
mr. chairman, please! i am allowing myself to speak a second time because i have saved a few seconds from the first time limit. i'm not going to let you do this. you said monopolies were bad. i would prefer that we talk about monopolistic practices as an element that we would fight. if you could possibly react to what is known in economic theory as a so-called natural monopoly. we have to be very careful about the way we use our resources, and we have to be very careful about the way we use them.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 22 may 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the draft text on reach test methods, tabled by mr guido sacconini on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0055/2008 - b6-0158/2008).
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 22 may 2008.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr janusz wojciechowski on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the new european union strategy on animal health (2007-2013) [2007/2260 (ini) ] (a6-0147/2008).
the rapporteur. −"prevention is better than cure" is the main idea of the animal health strategy proposed by the commission. the idea is obvious. we all remember the problems of bse and bird flu, when it was necessary to kill millions of animals. it was a very sad experience and we all want it to never have to happen again. this experience shows us that we should improve cooperation at european level to better protect animal health, which is very closely linked to human health because of the possibility of indirect or direct transmission of diseases from animals to humans. i would like to draw particular attention to a few points in my report. first, the promotion of better animal welfare standards. the report emphasises very strongly the close link between these two values and we expect that both values will be very closely present in future policy. the second thing is fair competition. european producers are required to meet a wide range of veterinary, animal health and welfare standards, but the same standards are not required of importers. the report emphasizes this. the same standards should be required of our producers as those who export animal products to the european market. this is a great challenge for our negotiators in the world trade organization negotiations. the third issue is strong support for the vaccination program. we think it's a very important tool to reduce disease. this also requires a different approach: products derived from vaccinated animals should not be discriminated against on the market. several sections of the report deal with this issue. the fourth problem is the compensation system, the compensation system. it should, firstly, encourage the reduction of the risk of disease and, secondly, take into account not only the direct losses associated with the eradication of disease outbreaks, but also the indirect losses associated with the crisis in the market. the fifth point is better control at the external borders of the union, which should not be limited to documentary checks but should be real, should effectively prevent the illegal import of animals of unknown origin into the union. the sixth issue is the duration of the strategy. we are a little late 2013 is too short a timeframe for these legislative plans to actually be implemented. a longer-term perspective is needed to implement these ambitious plans. the seventh issue is the financing of the strategy's objectives. in the draft report, we criticise the fact that these ambitious objectives are not sufficiently supported by financial means and should be financed from the union budget. in conclusion, mr president, i will say three sentences in english, so as not to distort the quotation to which i am referring. (the speaker continued in english.)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. in speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the european union's animal health strategy, i would like to draw attention to two issues which i believe are important. firstly, all the proposals on animal health contained in the report by mr wojciechowski should be considered worthy of support. however, it must be realised that these will mean an increase in production costs and thus weaken the competitive position of european producers. it is therefore necessary that in wto negotiations and in bilateral agreements between the european union and third countries, the european union requires that non-european producers who wish to place their products on the european market comply with similar animal health conditions. secondly, the common agricultural policy on animal health is one of the most integrated areas of european union policy and therefore, in my view, it should be financed primarily from the community budget. unfortunately, the european commission, which agrees with most of the report's proposals, does not want to finance them from the eu budget. we believe that additional funding should be guaranteed to enable the proposals in the report to be financed from the european union budget.
mr. chairman, please! the proposed european union animal health strategy contains well-defined projects. it is a good document and the principle of 'prevention is better than cure' has been used very well. this strategy addresses a number of key issues, such as: ensuring a high level of public health and food safety; promoting animal health by preventing and reducing the occurrence of animal diseases; promoting animal husbandry and welfare practices that prevent animal health risks and minimise adverse environmental impacts; and enhancing economic growth, cohesion and competitiveness by ensuring the free movement of goods and the appropriate movements of animals. in addition, attention was drawn to the issue of transporting animals, which increases the risk of diseases, and the role of vaccination as one of the main methods of preventing diseases was appropriately highlighted.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in the european union, we attach great importance to ensuring that food is of adequate quality. the quality standards are very high. that's good, because it's about people's health. in europe we have a very extensive system of quality control, and that control is mainly about the health of the animals. the animal welfare requirements we place on european farmers are often not respected when they raise animals outside the union. a large proportion of imported food is produced in conditions where these standards are not respected. this is detrimental to competitiveness and often leads to losses for european farmers. i share the rapporteur's view that the animal health strategy should have a longer-term perspective and be adequately funded.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank you all for your very interesting recommendations and your input. with the very limited time i have available i will not be able reply to all of them, but let me comment on some of the issues. first of all, the time constraints. a member noted that we have time constraints, but let me point out that the first proposal – the general animal health law – that will come into force is scheduled for 2010, not 2013 as was mentioned. another point that was made by several speakers was welfare during transport. as i have committed myself already, we are conducting an impact assessment which hopefully will be ready in a couple of months and then, depending on the outcome of the impact assessment, we shall decide how to proceed regarding welfare of animals during transport. now let me turn to budgets. following the recommendation of the european parliament, the commission is expected to prepare a detailed budget on the expenditure involved in different programmes of actions. this cannot be done in the frame of this action plan as it must follow the relevant budgetary procures. the intention is to reflect on proposals during the 2009 budget mid-term review and the commission will explore the possibility of widening the current veterinary fund and making use of other related funds to finance actions that will have a positive impact on animal health. vaccination is extensively carried out and financed by the union in many member states at present, both for bluetongue and for rabies, but i must make it clear regarding foot-and-mouth disease, mr matsakis, that we are not in favour of preventive vaccination, though in emergency cases we will of course vaccinate. finally, in answer to mrs doyle i would say that the problem of minor use for minor species is taken into account in the animal health action plan through the technology platform project, which comes under the seventh research framework programme. i really heard a lot of interesting comments from all of you and we will have the opportunity to discuss these points more extensively in the near future. thank you very much for your support.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i thank you very much for all your comments, and for the warm welcome you have given to the report. i would like to make two points. the first is the issue of equal standards and the need to impose the same requirements on exporters of their animal products to the european market as are required of european producers. it's a matter of course. and nine out of the eighty paragraphs of the report are devoted to this very issue, and this is a great challenge indeed. i really need to make this point very strongly. today's debate is a clear indication of that. our eu, our european priority should be to settle this matter in the world trade organization. it cannot be, and i fully share all the voices here, that there is a double standard. they are unacceptable. the second point is that some of the speeches have been made on transport, especially since we will be voting on mrs de lange's amendment tomorrow. i would like to say that as rapporteur i fully support mrs de lange's amendment to consider limiting the transport of live animals for slaughter to nine hours. this matter has been debated in parliament for a long time. i support this limitation for humanitarian reasons, there are many, many drastic reports of what happens in such transports. there are also economic considerations: after all, someone is paying for these long journeys. if you transport animals over long distances, say from poland to italy or from lithuania to italy, then the consumer pays for it. most of the time, the farmer pays for it, because in order to make it worthwhile to transport these animals that far, you have to buy them cheaply from the farmer. farmers in particular should not be afraid of this restriction, because it will force the processing industry to move closer to the places where animals are raised. i think it's in their best interest. we're discussing the increase in food prices. it is this very expensive, expensive transportation that is also one of the reasons for this increase in food prices. we really should consider this very seriously. i would like to thank once again the president, the commissioner and all those who took part in the debate on this report.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 22 may 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
, in writing. animal health is closely linked to human health because of the potential for transmission of certain diseases. because animals are living and sentient beings, their protection and appropriate treatment is one of the major challenges facing european countries. animal health is so important that animal disease outbreaks can cause problems, especially in rural areas. addressing the sector's specific challenges requires coordinated cooperation at both european and global levels. the risks to animal health are increasing due to the opening of new borders, trade, human mobility, increased demand for food and global warming. veterinarians have a huge role to play. they should become experts in the provision of specialised services such as animal health planning. biosecurity on farms, vaccination and scientific research are further steps towards higher animal welfare standards. another important issue to be highlighted is the influence of operators involved in the slaughter, transport and production of feed, as these have a direct impact on animal health and animal welfare. a new strategy and policy should be developed based on a uniform eu animal health legal framework, taking into account the standards and guidelines of the world organisation for animal health. however, farmers, breeders and animal owners have a key role to play in monitoring and promoting animal health.
, in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate is important because it's not just about animal health, it's about human health first and foremost. the problem is now becoming more serious as a result of the continuing increase in imports of meat from third countries. it is no secret that the general standards of animal welfare and nutrition in these countries differ greatly from those in europe. today's consumer has a right to know that the animals they eat have not been fed genetically modified plants. meat should be clearly labelled in this respect. the best safeguard against the spread of dangerous animal diseases is to ensure self-sufficiency in animal husbandry in the eu and to limit the size of farms. farming should not be an industry but primarily an agricultural activity. i would like to congratulate mr wojciechowski on his report.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the strategy for the third meeting of the convention's parties on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, by mr miroslava ouzký on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0054/2008 - b6-0157/2008).
the reason is that they are not here with us, and this is the only reason i can recognise. we have no idea; we have no secret agents.
with respect for your fantastic asparagus reception, without the author of the question we cannot proceed. i do not know what secret relations you have with the author of the question, but unfortunately we cannot continue. i am very sorry, madam commissioner.
i think we are taking this very seriously. how can we have a debate without the question, and without the author of the question? with respect for mr ouzký’s other obligations, he is not with us and he is not presenting the question. although i have a very good imagination, i cannot imagine the answer to the question without the substance of the question, despite the presence of the commissioner and two main speakers, two distinguished members of the european parliament from the ppe-de and the pse groups. so if we want to behave in a serious manner, i think we should stop this debate. if you want to continue answering the question without the question, that is fine with me. so i suggest we close the sitting. we will have the opportunity to continue.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will send the reply to the question in writing. written answer of the commission 2008 will mark the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the aarhus convention. the third meeting of the parties to the convention, to be held in june, in riga, will be an opportunity for the parties to review the progress achieved in the convention's implementation and to reflect on and plan for the challenges that lie ahead. the european community is a party to the convention since may 2005. the years preceding and following 2005 have seen the eu adopting several legislative acts to ensure the implementation of the convention. yet, challenges remain, including at the level of the convention itself as, for instance, predictable and stable financial arrangements are still to be agreed upon by all parties. the commission's priorities for the third meeting of the parties may be summarised as follows: · adoption of a long-term strategic plan outlining ambitious but realistic priorities for the years to come in a pragmatic and practicable manner. in this context i want to stress the importance of implementation which, in the commission's view, should be the first priority;· adoption of stable and predictable financial arrangements, which would ensure that the work programmes of the convention can proceed on a sound financial basis;· adoption of an interpretative decision by the meeting of the parties clarifying the conditions under which amendments to the convention enter into force. this decision is of practical relevance and importance already now as it would apply to the amendment to the convention adopted in 2005 on genetically modified organisms; · continuation of the work with respect to public participation, in particular in international forums, and access to justice in environmental matters; and· contribute to appointing high quality members to the compliance committee, which is the main compliance mechanism of the convention, so that it can usefully assist parties in furthering the implementation of the convention. the commission facilitates the inclusion of members of the european parliament as observers in community delegations attending meetings of governing bodies of multilateral agreements, and has done so already on a number of occasions. i welcome the participation of members of the european parliament at mop3, and am interested to hear your priorities and expectations for this meeting.
i'm informing you that the meeting is now closed due to the absence of the person who asked the question. the answer shall be given in writing.
i congratulate the rapporteur! the report is very extensive, broad, comprehensive. i confess that in reading this report i missed even the most important purpose. however, the rapporteur made this very clear in his speech at the beginning of our debate. i'm speaking because a new element has emerged in recent years. climate change has had dramatic effects in some developing countries. the point is to emphasise that we are doing this today also because the european union recognises the threat of climate change as a challenge to civilisation and as a civic responsibility. so we should, given the threat of global warming, significantly increase funding, strengthen donor action. this is the vision and action that will underpin our strategy for the eu's priority 'climate action'. we should also focus our aid on renewable energy in developing countries (fighting hunger is of course the most important, but i am talking about additional measures), and on overcoming the direct effects of warming, on adaptation measures such as coastal flooding, soil salinity, unprecedented droughts and floods. let us remember that our goal, the political priority of the european union, is to reach a global agreement on the fight against global warming. the negotiations will take place in poznań in 2008 and copenhagen in 2009. if we are to convince other countries to agree, we must reduce emissions and develop new technologies within the union and provide special assistance to developing countries.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. some experts, economists, politicians and development ngos like to say that more money is enough to achieve development cooperation's ambitious goals relatively quickly. but life is not that simple. for many social and economic problems, more money is not enough to solve them immediately. of course, money facilitates the problem-solving process, but funds are not the only prerequisite for success in development policy. the second very important condition is the effectiveness of the aid. poorly organised aid leads to dependence or, as some say, to the modernisation of dependence. the effectiveness of aid is important both from the point of view of the recipients and from the point of view of those who provide it. for aid recipients because money is not an end in itself, it is meant to change reality, to bring the achievement of the millennium development goals closer. it's not about spending money, it's about spending it wisely. for donors, efficiency is important, because they should be able to explain to taxpayers the purpose of development spending. the two processes - increasing development spending and increasing the quality of development spending - are therefore not contradictory and can be pursued simultaneously. mr vanhecke has produced a very good report, for which he deserves our thanks. i hope that, among other things, this report will give the european union representatives at the high level forum in accra a clear and decisive position. it seems that the european union should have a particularly important task in this area, namely to further harmonise the assistance of the member states and the union. it's important because this matter is entirely in our hands. the coordination within the union is not dependent on the international partners or those we help, and the costs of uncoordinated aid are very high.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. helping the poor and needy is a great value. the european union is at the forefront of helping countries affected by drought, floods, famine and the increasingly recent disasters caused by climate change. but there is always a dilemma in directing resources to developing countries, to poor countries for their development. how much of that money should be spent on poverty reduction today, and how much money should be spent on development, on education, on creating institutions, on legislation, on building technical infrastructure like roads, the internet, which will serve to develop entrepreneurship in these areas, especially the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, including farms? the assistance provided should be linked to the development of social awareness, democratic institutions, education systems, so that the local community is prepared to take the initiative for the sustainable development of these regions and countries.
, on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the full oral amendment is given in the voting list. it basically corrects a factual error that was pointed out by greek colleagues. it refers to the threshold of visa rejections, which forms the basis for continuing to keep countries outside visa waiver. in the case of greece the rejection rate is, in fact, only 1%, so we are correcting a factual error and i would ask you to support this amendment.
mr president, you must be neutral, you must not encourage people to stand up, they know for themselves whether they should do so or not. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
mr. chairman, please! food prices are rising and will continue to rise with the food problem. there are several reasons why we will have food shortages in the marketplace and why people will be coming in who need it and even hungry. the first is mainly the increased natural growth in third countries. the second is inadequate food production and poor distribution. the third is the role of the various interest groups in the food market. fourthly, the common agricultural policy, which has led to a significant reduction in food production in the new member states. and unless these policies change, unless we release our food production and our reserves, it will also contribute to food shortages and higher prices. the fifth problem is that there are many disasters that are independent of us, but unfortunately cause many losses and complications. the conclusion is this: the food problem is the most important problem because it is a matter of biosafety. it requires the full solidarity not only of the european union but also of the whole world. that's why he got my support.
recently, we have seen a disturbing increase in the price of food on the world market. the rising food prices, as well as the significant increase in energy prices, are the causes of the increase in inflation. politicians and economists are trying to diagnose the situation and determine the causes. the main factors cited are: changes in the world economy, including higher energy prices, lower harvests, biofuel production. the problem of rising food prices is also affected by the increase in demand for food and the improvement in the resources of the population in rapidly developing countries such as india and china. rising food prices affect both producers and consumers. the changes in the world food market force us to think seriously or rethink our food security strategy. however, it is essential that the measures taken, which are aimed at improving the situation on food markets, are not ad hoc but lead to a lasting stabilisation. too little emphasis is placed on stabilising production levels and maintaining sufficient stocks to limit fluctuations in production levels due to climate change or other factors.
mr. chairman, please! in the case of the report on the rise in food prices in the european union, i voted for amendment no 21 and against amendment no 28. unfortunately, the voting machine didn't respond at the time. i would also like to point out that limits on the production of foodstuffs, quoting this production when children in europe are starving, is unacceptable and i would ask the european commission to reconsider this matter. the report by mrs zimmer on poverty in europe, and in particular child poverty, including hunger among european children, is currently before parliament. we shouldn't let that happen.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is founded on the fundamental principles of solidarity, partnership and non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. however, the visa policy of the usa and its accompanying requirements are undermining these principles. the member states are forced to negotiate individually on a matter which falls largely within the community's competence. the issue of visa restrictions concerns primarily the new member states, which, by not applying restrictions or other requirements to the united states themselves, cannot apparently count on reciprocity from the united states. this problem cannot be solved by each country on its own. here, comprehensive regulation is needed, covering all the member states of the union. it should be stressed that if the us visa policy is not changed, this will certainly affect transatlantic relations.
mr. chairman, please! animal health is a growing problem for several reasons. the first is the increase in the size of livestock farms and the associated concentration of animals. the second is the lack of effective means to control animal diseases. the first problem can only be solved by limiting the breeding of large farms and herds, by legal and administrative measures and by setting up a support system for small farms, especially family farms. the second is undoubtedly dependent on the european union budget providing the necessary funds to combat animal diseases. of course, there are other very important reasons too, which should not be overlooked, such as: transport of animals, inadequate early warning systems for hazards, inadequate prevention, including protective vaccination. the report by mr janusz wojciechowski points to these problems and that is why i voted in favour of it.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate mr wojciechowski on the report and on the outcome of today's vote. the commission's initiative on a change of approach to animal health and the action strategy so far clearly indicate the need to work on improving animal health legislation, improving coherence with other policies and increasing legislative effectiveness. the new approach proposed in the strategy will reduce the risk of animal diseases. i know that, and i'm a veterinarian. it will also contribute to economic growth, increase the competitiveness of european farmers and businesses and provide new access to export markets. appropriate animal health and safety standards are also a guarantee of an appropriate trade policy within the community. this policy has changed in the wake of a series of major crises and outbreaks of disease in recent years and has proven to require a thorough review of the activities carried out to date. i believe that through this project, the european union will promote innovation, science and research to provide better means of combating animal diseases.
mr. chairman, please! in mr wojciechowski's report, i regret to say that only ten votes failed to pass the amendment on the transport of animals. it shows that we're losing our sensitivity. i hope that in the future, such documents will be corrected.
in writing. − the second amendment to the 2008 budget, which is already being implemented, traditionally contains several elements that are not logically connected. this is often a feature of the amending budget, making it difficult to evaluate proposals. however, the quality of the justification and the formal compliance of the project with the financial regulation are essential. it is fully justified to include unused structural funds from the erdf, the eafrd and the eff (totalling eur 771.6 million) in the 2008 budget, which is in line with the spirit and the substance of the 2006 interinstitutional agreement, when we foresaw delays in the implementation of the new financial perspective. at the time of the vote on this budgetary modification, it is gratifying to note that over 500 of the 580 operational programmes for 2007-13 have already been approved, marking the transition to the implementation phase of the current seven-year period. the rapporteur also sees the need to modify the establishment plans of two agencies, namely the european medicines agency and the european maritime safety agency, as proposed by the european commission, as complementary elements to the preliminary draft amending budget no 2/ 2008. this type of complement is more readily adopted than the tendency to multiply the union's executive and regulatory agencies.
in writing. − industrial policy is essential to achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. it should create the framework conditions for business development, industrial investment, innovation and job creation. i am pleased that in this context special attention has been paid to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 99.8% of all businesses operating on the european market. these are the companies that suffer most from excessive bureaucracy. on average, a small firm has about ten times the costs per employee to comply with its legal obligations than a large firm. in addition, smes may have more difficulty accessing markets than large enterprises. we must not forget that it is smes, through their innovation and flexibility, that make a significant contribution to economic growth and the competitiveness of european enterprises. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire or leasing of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or leasing of motor vehicles, and the purchase, hire or leasing of motor vehicles for the transport of goods and services, as well as the purchase, hire or leasing of motor vehicles for the transport of goods and services, and the purchase, hire or leasing of motor vehicles for the transport of goods and services. the commission is also proposing to include such proposals in the forthcoming small business charter. i agree with the rapporteur that improving the regulatory environment at european level must be accompanied by the involvement of the member states. without national action to reduce administrative burdens, no tangible economic benefits will be achieved.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against report a6-131/2008. this is another document that is part of the trend towards creating meaningless entities that burden the community budget. despite the existence of 4 structural funds, the cohesion fund, the 7th framework programme and several dozen eu agencies that are solely concerned with the milk supply to the community budget, the next one is being created, which will certainly cost the european taxpayer some money, but no one here mentions actually fighting unemployment and making life easier (or not actually making life more difficult) for employers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on food price increases in the eu and in developing countries. this is a worldwide problem. there are many reasons for this state of affairs. these include increasing food demand, rising fuel prices, environmental disasters (especially droughts), reducing the area of crops used for food and feed (at the expense of increasing the area used for so-called energy agriculture), etc. so i support the idea of a un moratorium on biofuels. there are also attempts at financial speculation in the food market. the commission has also found that the measures in question are not compatible with the internal market. the distribution or sale at symbolic prices of food from our surpluses has a fatal effect on the poorest countries. such assistance is only indicated in the event of a disaster or catastrophe. otherwise, it completely destroys the farmers who do not earn a living from their crops or their livestock. rapidly rising food prices and unemployment may also lead to social instability in these countries. we recently heard of a dramatic case of an afghan man selling his daughter to support his family. let's remember the inflationary effect of rising food prices. i hope this doesn't trigger a spiral effect of a steep rise in all prices.
in writing. − the adoption of the 'motion for a resolution on negotiations between the european union and the united states with regard to visa exemptions' is welcomed by the epp-ed. it marks an important step in coordinating activities of member states and the european commission in their negotiations with the united states. it recognises that discrimination of a large group of eu citizens is unacceptable and shows solidarity on the part of those member states already in the programme with those who still face inconvenient and sometimes demeaning visa application procedures. it draws attention to the fact that reasons for visa refusal are non-transparent. a rapid fall in the rate of refusal in some countries and not others creates suspicions that countries outside visa waiver are not treated on the same terms by the united states. representing poland, a country outside the visa waiver regime, i trust that the resolution will lead to a speedy and satisfactory conclusion of an agreement allowing all eu citizens to travel to the us on the same terms. the eu and member states have made a concerted effort to resolve the problem. we are hopeful that the united states will meet this initiative with an open and positive response.
in writing. - i support the ep resolution on visa negotiations with the usa. they shall be conducted on behalf of all the members of the union. the us government and the governments of countries that have already entered into bilateral negotiations should take into account the eu's ownership and its treaty competences. clear rules are needed for bilateral visa-free talks with the united states, but there are issues within the union's competence. this is a two-way street. unfortunately, for poland, which unilaterally lifted the visa requirement for us citizens on 15 april 1991, this asymmetry is very clear. i'm not convinced that the argument that it's decided by an overly high visa refusal rate is valid. these renewals, i believe, are often the result of an arbitrary decision by a us consular officer who - sometimes on no apparent basis - concludes that someone would illegally extend their stay in the us. such assumptions are grossly unreasonable and sometimes even offensive. the dollar's exchange rate against the zloty is no longer a reasonable argument for black-market labor. today, it's important to travel for tourism, business, to visit friends and family. i think the united states is losing out on this, too, by closing its borders to allies and keeping them airtight against potential terrorists. how can we build transatlantic cooperation if we don't trust our allies? - that's not a rhetorical question. many of my constituents are paying attention to this problem.
in writing. − the 2005 paris declaration established a programme for the effectiveness of international aid, focusing on the fight against poverty. the document sets out specific commitments to promote more effective aid based on international cooperation. it seems that this will be effective aid in the full sense of the word and that those who need it will receive it and not have to bear the cost of it. unfortunately, it is not uncommon for people who receive 'aid' to have to pay for it. in many cases, it is an instrument of economic dependence of the weak on the strong, the poor on the rich. in the early 1960's, a hindu man observing the aid given by developed countries to his country commented to the world food organization: 'for god's sake, stop helping us.' i believe this time will be different.
the author. - it is indeed shocking that the sudanese government has appointed mr haroun (former minister of interior responsible for darfur in 2003-2004) as minister of humanitarian affairs. it is a grim joke that he has been made responsible for the lives and safety of the people of darfur, who were previously persecuted by the same person, and that he has been given the decision-making power over the largest humanitarian operation in the region by the international peacekeeping mission unamid. and remember, the purpose of this mission is to protect civilians from crimes, which are the very same crimes that mr. haroun committed. the international community, the european union, the african union, the un, the arab league all these organizations should exert maximum pressure on the sudanese government to finally bring these individuals to justice before the international criminal court.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. sudan is a vast country of 2.5 million square kilometers with a population of about 42 million, devastated by two civil wars that have claimed millions of lives and caused disability, humiliation, destruction of property to dozens of millions more citizens. the factors that contribute to the fratricidal fighting are ethnic differences - 52% are black, 39% are arab; and religious - 70% are sunni, 30% are animist. during these wars, the people suffered from all kinds of evil from those who have the weapons and the power, such as: killing, torture, rape, robbery, displacement of those who are wanted and punished by the international criminal court. unfortunately, the icc has no means to threaten the perpetrators. the resolution sets out the european approach to the situation and i support it. but i think that in this situation, we should consider more radical measures, such as bringing the accused to the icc by un special forces, or in other cases, depriving them of their civil rights and interning them for life without the right to return to some remote island with the eloquent name "villains island". i think that would help.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. it is a scandalous story when a member state of the united nations does not respect the calls made to it by the security council of that organization, which speaks of the need to give the international criminal court all the necessary assistance. what is left for the international community when the sudanese foreign minister refuses such assistance and at the same time declares that the court has no jurisdiction to try any sudanese and that the sudanese government will not allow any sudanese to be tried and punished outside the scope of the national judiciary? we're in a pretty tough situation because sudan is somewhat independent of aid from both the european union and the united states and other western democracies, relying on china for its development. china, which unfortunately has no respect for human rights, even in its own country. so the only possible response on our part is to request that the sudanese leaders' assets be frozen.
on behalf of the pse group. the conflict in sudan has claimed 300,000 lives since 2003. two and a half million people have fled their homes to escape the violence. despite some stability in the country, clashes between government forces and rebels continue to occur, hampering the deployment of un peacekeepers and humanitarian aid. a lasting solution to the conflict in sudan will not be possible without action and additional un forces in the region. the recruitment of children into the armed forces and the violence against the population, especially women, are a flagrant violation of international norms and human rights. of particular concern is the government's lack of cooperation with the international criminal court and the continued power of war criminals who - as a grim joke - are now involved in, among other things, the redistribution of humanitarian aid and contacts with peacekeepers. sudan should be called upon to cooperate immediately with the court to hold war crimes to account, as this is a necessary condition for the building of democracy and the rule of law. any attempt to break the peace agreement and any military aid from third countries to either side of the conflict must be condemned.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. since 2003, sudan has been the scene of religious and ethnic guerrilla fighting. the conflict in darfur has caused the exodus of over two and a half million people. civilian victims of these fights are murdered, beaten, raped. there is hunger, lack of basic hygiene. children, orphaned, missing, denied the chance for education and a decent future. humanitarian missions are becoming more limited. the conflict in sudan has led to a civilization catastrophe in darfur and chad. the sudanese government refuses to cooperate with the international criminal court, mocks the icc, has warrants for the arrest of war criminals, and is unable or unwilling to remedy the drama. on may 10 and 11, another 200 people were killed in the attack on omdurman. we call on the sudanese authorities to cooperate immediately with the international criminal court. we expect the european council to take decisive action, blocking access to eu banks and freezing the assets of those identified as being responsible for financing the militias in darfur.
today, as we have done many times in the past, when we talk about human rights violations in the world, about murders, we talk about who is guilty there, on the ground. but it seems that the situation requires a deeper analysis, because there is always the trade in arms and oil in the background. and this arms and oil trade is not just organized by those locals, who we often treat as someone inferior, but it's organized by people from circles of countries that have a more developed sense of responsibility and should have a more developed sense of responsibility for others. and if it weren't for their interests, then probably these crimes that we usually debate on thursday afternoons, like we're debating today about sudan, wouldn't exist.
the author. - today we are debating once again about the violation of basic human rights in belarus. as is usually the case in these situations, we're looking at where dictators start. dictators, of course, always fight the organized church because the organized church is often the most powerful civic force. they're always fighting the unions. in belarus, the trade unions are quite weak, so in this respect, lukashenko can seem like a positive hero, because he has no one to fight, because they haven't managed to create trade unions yet. and of course, dictators fight these oppositionists who are demanding democratic solutions. but there is one thing we must remember: we must remember that belarus is an important neighbour of the european union in the east and we must treat it as such. we have a tendency to see russia as the union's neighbour to the east and forget that belarus should also be the union's partner to the east, because it is a large country with great hopes.
- madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the members of the european parliament who deal with belarus, who are monitoring the situation in belarus, are getting mixed signals. on the one hand, we see the official and publicly declared desire to normalize relations with the european union, as evidenced by the opening of the european commission's representation in minsk. on the other hand, in the same month, police violently attacked protesters who wanted to celebrate the 19th anniversary of the country's independence. the next day, the authorities send kgb special services to independent journalists. a month later, activists, not even opposition, but civil society, who dared to demonstrate in defense of civil liberties and the rights of small entrepreneurs, such as andrei kim and sergey parsukievich, were sentenced to long prison terms. at the same time, we recently learned that aleksander milinkiewicz was also sentenced to imprisonment and a financial warrant for the sole reason that he dared to meet with belarusian citizens and talk about public affairs. alexander kazulin, the most serious political prisoner, prisoner of conscience in modern europe, remains in prison. as chairman of the delegation for belarus, i look forward to the day when we finally propose to the european parliament a resolution which takes note with satisfaction of the changes that could be made in belarus to make it part of a civilized european community. but unfortunately, that's not going to happen today. without guaranteeing the fundamental rights to free and democratic elections, to the expression of political views, to a free media and to religious practice, there is no way that the european union will ever recognize the belarusian regime as a country worth working with, a country worth helping. we will never support the policy of alexander lukashenko. however, we will support independent civil society and the people of belarus in their contacts with the european union, hoping that the country will finally return to normalcy.
on behalf of the alde group. a few months ago, mr. lukashenko released from prison all political prisoners except mr. kazulin, who was only offered an offer to go abroad, very similar to the practice of the communist authorities towards polish opponents. it seemed that the situation could start to change for the better, but as the hero of the famous novel by ilya erenburg said: "if they slow down, it means that they will accept". today, prisons are again full of prisoners who are there because of their political beliefs, which they expressed in various demonstrations. i think we have one right answer, and that is to expand the list of people who are simply banned from entering the european union. the list exists, but the fact that mr. lukashenko is the one who cannot enter the european union is not convincing. this list should be considerably extended.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are back in belarus again. mr. kazulin, lukashenka's rival for the presidency of belarus, is still in prison despite his illness. the protesters who were arrested on 25 march 2008 for their participation in a demonstration to mark the 19th anniversary of the short-lived independence of belarus remain in detention. the opposition is subject to repression, and journalists are subject to seizure of equipment, beatings and expulsion from the country. mr. lukashenko recently announced his intention to run for president again. for the first time, he also resorted to blackmailing the european union, recalling that 50% of oil, 50% of oil products and 30% of gas to the european union pass through belarus. the yamal-europe gas pipeline and the friendship oil pipeline. nevertheless, and especially for this reason, the european union cannot stop working to protect human rights. we should support the emerging civil society in belarus, including in terms of material support and access to independent information.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. seventeen years after the transformation that took place in the context of the collapse of the soviet union and the emergence of free independent states, belarus remains a relic and the last dictatorship of central and eastern europe. respect for civil rights in this country still seems a distant dream. the rigging of elections, the suppression of political opposition, arrests, beatings, restrictions on freedom of speech, media, assembly, and above all the mass surveillance of citizens by the expanded security apparatus are everyday occurrences for the citizens of belarus. i would also like to draw attention to the deterioration of the situation of many residents of border towns, including in particular the polish minority living there, who have had very difficult contact with their families living in poland since poland's accession to schengen, especially because of the high visa fees. the situation that is persisting requires decisive action on the part of european countries to consider ways of providing real help to those who are most affected.
madam president, the belarus regime shows its continued disregard for all the institutional guarantees that are central to a democracy. it curtails the freedom to form and join political parties, the freedom of expression, the right to alternative sources of information and the right to free and fair elections. the arrest of political opponents in belarus violates all these basic freedoms. the 19th century british politician benjamin disraeli once said: ‘no government can be long secure without a formidable opposition’. as lukashenko stifles all opposition, let us hope that disraeli’s words prove to be a prophesy for the belarus regime and that the suppression of the opposition will be the cause of its ultimate downfall. (applause)
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the european parliament we keep coming back to the problem of belarus, a country that is actually in the middle of europe, geographically speaking, on the borders of the european union. it's a very special country in european terms because of the lack of liberal democracy and the rule of law and the existence of censorship. today's debate takes place in the year that marks the anniversary of the prague spring of 1968 - the anniversary of when europe finally said, "enough!" to censorship and control of the media. i wanted to dedicate my speech today to this very issue in belarus. we were dealing with a very strange hacker attack on independent online media: kart-97, radio swaboda and the belarusian partisan. ironically, the hack began on the eve of an opposition demonstration to mark the anniversary of the chernobyl disaster. online media in belarus is practically the only independent media, most media is entirely controlled by the belarusian regime. the 97 card is visited by about 9,000 internet users every day, and in belarus there are about more than three million households connected to the internet, more than 30% of the total population. this shows the dynamism, the energy of the belarusian society. i'm not going to let you do this. the european union must seriously consider what steps it can take to help belarusian civil society.
madam president! belarus as a neighbouring country is particularly close to us, especially since there are many poles living there. we, the poles, and the citizens of other neighbouring countries, want a stable political and economic situation in the region, as this guarantees development and improvement of the living conditions of citizens. we must also remember that belarus, like poland, was forgotten and given over to soviet rule after world war ii and could not count on any help. however, the country has managed to recover and now boasts gdp growth of over 8% and 9.9% between 2003 and 2006. we do not deny president lukashenko the right to choose the direction of his country's policies. however, we are concerned about the increasing number of complaints about human rights violations in belarus and therefore about the violation of democracy. this applies not only to belarusian citizens, but also to others, including poles. that is why the resolution makes sense and is supported by my political group, the uen.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in order to carry out democratisation and economic transformation, the belarusian authorities must open up to dialogue with all political forces, including the opposition, and conduct free elections. central and eastern european countries, including poland, can serve as an example. in order to change the consciousness of the belarusian society and bring it closer to the principles of democracy and free markets, it is necessary to facilitate and increase contacts between the peoples of belarus and the union. this requires significant simplification and liberalization of the visa procedure, reduction of visa fees for belarusian citizens. european union countries should open their universities and other higher education institutions to belarusian students, providing them with scholarships funded by eu, national, local government and private funds. the union should open up to belarus, even if the current authorities do not want it.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to add one thing to the political and economic issues. since commissioner louis michel understands the importance of education, both in europe and beyond, and i personally deal with belarusian students, because we educate many of them at the catholic university of lublin, i wanted to say: commissioner! as much as possible, i would increase financial and any other aid for this purpose, and that is because investing in the education of belarusian students will help belarus per se, and also pay off for europe.
madam president! belarus, modern belarus of 2008, is a guilt trip for all of us, it's a great shame that at the beginning of the 21st century we have a totalitarian state in europe. in this room, in our thursday meetings in strasbourg, we discuss human rights violations around the world. but belarus is the european union's closest neighbour. i have the impression that until 1989, the western democracies were doing everything possible to free many of the countries that were under soviet occupation. today it remains belarus. i feel that even though it's not a dozen countries, but one, we're doing less. we're not doing enough. we cannot of course influence in a clear political and economic way what is happening in belarus, but we can influence the transmission of independent information that will motivate the belarusian society to fight for independence.
- madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we welcome the resumption of negotiations and the start of peace talks between the national liberation forces and the burundian government. this is not the first attempt at an agreement between the rebels and the government. we hope that this settlement will end the blood feud. the conflict not only causes innocent victims, but above all destabilises the fragile balance and increases tensions in a country where the 2003 peace agreement had brought positive results. after years of conflict, burundi is trying to rebuild and return to the international arena, and has been successful in this regard. the paradox is all the greater that the current problems in burundi are no longer caused by the hutu-tutsi tribal conflict, but by a very radical wing of the hutu-fnl that has not accepted the peace agreement and that is still trying to fight the coalition government, which includes the hutu. the international community should support a peace agreement and bring an end to the conflict.
the author. - we are debating here once again the crimes that are taking place in different countries of the world and we will continue to debate this endlessly until the european union has a common foreign policy. and a common foreign policy will only be effective if the european union has military power. the lisbon treaty, which creates a sort of foreign minister's office, will not solve the problem because he will not be equipped with military force. president lech kaczyński once said that the european union should have its own military force. president sarkozy recently mentioned this. i believe that this issue should be on the agenda of public debate in the european union, with concrete proposals for political solutions and, consequently, legal solutions. without military force, there is no foreign policy. if we want the union to be strong and to be integrated, then the union must have its own military force to be able to intervene in situations like burundi.
madam president! the increase in tensions in burundi, the ethnic clashes and the violence must be stopped immediately. hundreds of dead and wounded are the price that these conflicts are paying for the defenseless civilian population. it is necessary to respect the peace agreement, it is necessary to activate the peacekeeping forces. the financial assistance provided by the european union to burundi must be closely monitored and directed primarily to civilian needs, in particular the protection of the health, safety and education of children.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to comment and express the views of parliament on foreign policy during this debate, which is more than just a routine annual debate on foreign policy and the state of play of foreign policy in the union: the participation of mr solana with us is a testimony that it is a special debate. thank you for coming, mr solana. first, we are at a very important juncture, if not a turning point, in terms of foreign policy because of the lisbon treaty innovations. we have to look back in order to evaluate as usual, but we also have to take a forward-looking approach. we have high and growing citizen support for foreign policy, for one which is genuine and robust. member states’ perceptions increasingly change, seeing that speaking with one voice and acting in common is the only way to have an effective union foreign policy. entering this new chapter of eu foreign policy, we are moving towards a qualitative change. the new foreign policy should draw its legitimacy not only from its intergovernmental source, but also from european parliament scrutiny, hence, as we will see, the growing importance and role of the european parliament in shaping this policy, as we called for in our report. we need an integrated and holistic approach to foreign policy, with cohesion, convergence and complementarity of all the institutions involved, including the member states. the european union should continue its role as peace-maker and mediator, a soft power helping to stabilise, reconstruct and reform, a supplier of assistance and humanitarian aid, as a normative power, value-projecting and promoting democracy, freedom and human rights, but at the same time we should complement the soft dimension with a harder one by developing the esdp dimension and our military capabilities to be prepared for power projection also. we should complement our reactive policy to short- and medium-term challenges with a more long-term strategic approach and definition of european interests in the long term, by addressing the true causes and not only the effects of some changes around us like darfur, which is both a climate and a conflict situation. we should continue being active on various geographical priorities, but also face new challenges and horizontal issues like climate security, energy security, space security, cyber-security, migration flows and many others. while aspiring to be a global power and a global actor, we should change the balance between being a payer, as we are and we want to be, and being a key player in the world arena. the new treaty offers a huge potential for a coherent and effective foreign policy, but we all know that implementation will be crucial. we need collective will and cooperation, not only in the institutional triangle but also with member states, and we have to avoid rivalries. we tried to table a constructive approach in this report. we are concerned by some failures of foreign policy, but we look more to the future. we recognise positive evolution, progress and successes. we recommend challenging the failures but building on achievements, and identifying room for further progress. the european parliament’s ambition is not only to scrutinise the foreign policy, to make recommendations on which to base solutions and choices for the executive branch, but also to invest in its own foreign policy-making, which i call ‘parliamentary diplomacy’, as it is run within our competence at parliamentary level. on priorities, we believe that we need a focused approach and a limited number of priorities. we underline the need for value-driven foreign policy, not because we are excessively idealistic or naive, but because a world around us which shares our own strong universal values will best serve our interests of security and prosperity. parliament considers the foreign policy of the union as a contribution to strengthened european identity and also as value added for eu citizens and as part of the european commission’s trajectory of a europe of results. we consider foreign policy as a key eu policy to be equipped with a proper institutional set-up, which the lisbon treaty brings about, proper instruments, and adequate financing out of the eu budget. we need a set of instruments at our disposal, and that is something which lies ahead of us.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to recall that in last year's council report on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy, parliament expressed its deep concern at the announcement by then russian president vladimir putin that russia would withdraw from further participation in the treaty on the limitation of conventional forces in europe. despite the explicit declaration of the european parliament, the union authorities have not taken any serious action in this regard. in july 2007, the russian state duma unanimously adopted a law suspending russia's participation in the treaty. this is of fundamental importance for european security, since russia has the largest conventional armed forces on our continent. i therefore consider that the matter of the re-accession of the russian federation to this international agreement is a matter of priority. the authorities of the union and its member states should use all possible means to bring this about, not least because russian military spending has recently increased by 700%.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about a sphere of competence which has hitherto been reserved for the sovereign states of europe. today, the specter of the eu's foreign and security policy is more real than ever, especially with the introduction of the new lisbon constitution for the euro. as a polish mp, i do not want and will not agree that brussels, not warsaw, should be the source of polish foreign policy, and that german generals in headquarters outside berlin or brussels should be in charge of our security. i also do not want polish soldiers with the eu flag on their uniforms pursuing foreign interests in different parts of europe and the world. the current trends and the already open construction of a single european state are unacceptable. of course you can deceive your own people without even asking them for their opinion on the construction of a super-union, but sooner or later this project will fall apart.
mr. chairman, please! in discussing the european union's common foreign policy today, we must take into account a number of aspects. the reports by mr kuhne and mr saryusz-wolski are indeed very good, but there are some elements missing. i would like to point out that we should pay more attention to ensuring that european foreign policy, including the defence aspect of this policy, is explained to the citizens. our citizens, our citizens of the european union, are well aware of what is coming from us in the european union, behind the agricultural policy, behind the infrastructure policy, but they still do not have this clarity about what european foreign and defence policy is about. let us remember that the european union was born around other problems. it is also important to note that the treaty of lisbon, which i hope will enter into force as soon as possible and will serve as a basis for new european union action, will also create the most appropriate instruments. many speakers here have focused on military issues. indeed, the battle groups and all the elements related to the european defence identity are very important, but equally important is the debate on the model of european diplomacy on how this diplomatic service will work. it is important that the report stresses that the european union's foreign and defence policy is intertwined with various very important areas of life in the european union. it is important to emphasize that we are also introducing the idea of a common energy policy, of energy security as an element of our common european thinking. finally, it is important that we think of foreign and security policy as an extension of the area of security, stability and democracy. in this context, i note very positively the strong emphasis on both the balkans and georgia.
mr. chairman, please! the safety of europe's citizens is one of the european union's most important tasks. if we look at the community's policy in recent years, we can see that we are not very effective militarily outside of political action. some members of the european union, driven by their ambitions, are trying to compete politically and militarily with nato, of which they are members. focusing on the creation of joint battle groups, and especially extended commands instead of professionalising selected units in individual member states is a mistake. it is also a mistake to make little use of the existing nato structures. the strength of the commonwealth should be strong national armies. the european union must resolve the currently frozen conflicts in europe not only with declarations but also with real political action. the recent troubles in georgia were partly caused by the union's support for kosovo.
mr. chairman, please! i have great respect for both rapporteurs. these are good documents. i would like to draw your attention to a few matters relating to foreign and defence policy. i am referring to our european potential in the following areas. demographics: this potential is decreasing. the economic potential is good, but we're in for a financial crisis. military potential disunited, broken we see what it is. the potential for energy, the potential for access to water, to food. we talked about other threats, and i want to mention also, like, epidemiological threats, cybersecurity. foreign policy today, in my view, should be about alliances with those countries that are close to us in civilization and cooperation with all those who want to cooperate and a firm stance towards the rest.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i believe, as did javier solana before me, that this debate has shown a broad consensus on the basic orientation of european foreign and security policy, and i am very pleased about that. i would like to make three brief points. i would like to return to the question of security. i don't think we're that far apart. none of the major global problems we face today and in the near future is without a security dimension. even the crisis in the financial markets has a security dimension. the food situation has one, the raw materials situation has one, not to forget the classic issues. however, there is no danger of a militarization of our foreign policy or of the european union, because the military response to these risks is rarely an option. if anything, it is usually to create a safe environment in which to do the real task, which will be of a civil and political nature. but we must be able to do both. we must be prepared for both, and that is precisely the consideration that european policy is going to give. we are also particularly well placed to help to deal with crises in the world because we have a wide range of instruments at our disposal to implement our strategies. the european union can rely not only on the cfsp and the esdp but also on various community instruments, such as the instruments for stability and development cooperation in general, but also humanitarian aid and civil protection. we must ensure that we always choose the right instruments and that the various players work together in a coherent way. there can be no doubt that one of the main benefits of the lisbon treaty when it comes into force is that it will significantly facilitate precisely this coherent and more effective interaction. let me conclude and summarize once again: what really matters is our collective and political will to actually use our opportunities. the opportunities are there, we just have to want to take them. we need to use them in a way that we can pull together. under the circumstances, we really have no choice. we simply cannot afford to act inconsistently or to use resources inefficiently. we must instead pool and concentrate our resources and instruments if we are to achieve a truly common, credible and coherent eu foreign policy. only then will we be able to meet the challenges and meet the legitimate expectations of our citizens and our partners. thank you, thank you.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, i would like to answer the two or three questions that have been addressed directly to me. firstly, that of mr salafranca sánchez-neyra. señor salafranca sánchez-neyra, le diré que sí a las dos preguntas que me ha planteado, pero permítame que le diga que vamos a ver primero si se aprueba el tratado. las cuestiones a partir de la ratificación del tratado tendrán que esperar y los acuerdos probablemente tendrán que ser posteriores. madame záborská, nous suivons l'affaire. mme záborská n'étant pas présente, je garde la réponse. at the agency we are working very hard on interoperability: that is something that you asked about, and the answer is ‘yes’. as regards the other questions, i answered them when i spoke earlier. i have taken careful note of all the speeches and i hope that, as time goes by – as we approach the moment of truth – after the ratification of the treaty, we will be able together to put into practice some of the ideas that have been suggested here. before they speak, i would again like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, as i said publicly before. finally, i would like to say that i agree completely with what commissioner verheugen said in his last speech, and i will not add any more to that.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is difficult to sum up such a debate in a few words, but i welcome its content. the need for cooperation between parliament, the council, the commission and the member states is the most important conclusion. secondly, the content has a fairly broad consensus. third, we recognize that many very worthwhile things have already been accomplished. finally, the need for intensified efforts is emphasised. mr verheugen rightly pointed out the immense contribution of community policies as managed by the european commission. i share his view, because the integrated foreign policy would be very incomplete without the results achieved through community policies. i think that for the first time this is a preparatory debate for the installation of the future foreign minister of the european union with two hats. which brings me to ask the question: what shall we do without this creative tension? in the future, when there is only one institution. we understand, and i agree, that we need a stronger foreign policy, both in terms of institutions and in terms of content. energy security was the most frequently mentioned topic. the country or geographical location that has been mentioned most often seems to be afghanistan, as if it were a test for the european union and for our entire international community. there were several points of disagreement. without these differences to fuel the debates, they would be a bit boring. i hope that the future debates will be as lively and as rich. but on the broad principles we have reached a very promising agreement and i hope that the council, the high representative, the commission, with the very modest contribution, of course, of parliament, will be able to build an even stronger, bigger and more ambitious union foreign policy in the future.
in writing. i would like to start by congratulating mr saryusz-wolski on the very good report he has produced. i would like to highlight a few of the themes that we encounter in reading this document. most worrying is the eu's growing dependence on energy supplies from countries that are unstable and undemocratic. we see an absolute lack of coordination in the signature by member states of bilateral energy agreements which threaten eu interests and call into question strategic projects. such actions by some member states are seriously undermining the european union's bargaining power and its efforts towards a common foreign policy. i would like to reiterate the strategic importance of the nabucco pipeline for the eu's energy security and call on the european commission and the council to do their utmost to intensify work on this project. in connection with the two-day conference on the european neighbourhood policy, which i co-organised during the current ep session, i would like to stress the importance of strengthening the policy. the persistence of unresolved conflicts in the countries covered by the epc poses a serious challenge to the security of the eu. in conclusion, i believe that strengthening the eastern neighbourhood policy and ending the provocation of conflicts beyond our eastern border as well as ensuring energy security should be a priority of the eu's foreign policy.
in writing. i support the report presented i consider it to be a balanced and compromise document. evaluation of eu external policy is particularly important at the moment, especially in the context of the changes proposed by the lisbon treaty in this respect. i have no doubt that this treaty, by increasing the role of the high representative, will enable a more far-sighted and long-term eu foreign policy strategy. the fact that the european union as a whole is founded on common values means that the same values must be reflected in its common foreign and security policy. only this approach will ensure the union's credibility on the international stage. the cfsp requires the political unity of the member states on the one hand and the respect of the principle of solidarity, in particular in the development of new eu policies, on the other. i therefore share the regret and concern expressed in the report about the lack of progress in building a common european energy policy. i cannot accept the fact that some member states are concluding individual, bilateral agreements for the supply of energy from russia. this significantly weakens the bargaining power of the european union as a whole and its efforts to build a common energy policy. this is all the more sad that not so long ago these same countries were criticizing individual visa agreements with the united states, blaming the central european countries that have made them with the us for weakening the common european visa policy.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union is becoming a global player on the world stage, and the geography of its involvement is the best proof of this. it is sufficient to mention the operational decisions of the council in 2007 and early 2008, mentioned in the helmut kuhne report: the police mission in afghanistan, the military operation in chad, the reconfiguration of forces in bosnia, the preparation of missions in kosovo and guinea-bissau. the global geography of engagement has not, however, been matched by the removal of the long-standing deficiencies in the eu's civilian peace corps, transport shortages and uneven country-to-country involvement. in the light of recent information, there is a need to bring a new dimension to the debate on european security. it is about the security of the european institutions in brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg. the exposure of a terrorist group that has targeted eu institutions makes security a matter of theoretical importance. it forces you to reevaluate your existing policies. we are aware that the european parliament is by its very nature easily accessible and that it is difficult to find a balance between the openness of this institution and the increased security. however, this is becoming a necessity which should be reflected in the budgetary assumptions for 2009. it is not as important as the other problems covered in the report, but it deserves attention.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament recently adopted a resolution calling on the united states to lift the visa requirement for citizens of all eu member states and to respect the principle of reciprocity. citizens of the united states can travel freely to all countries of the union, but only citizens of the few richest countries of the european union do not have to apply for american visas. this shows the asymmetry in the treatment of some full members of the union. unfortunately, this issue has not previously been the subject of sufficient concern by the eu institutions, which in other matters often show excessive zeal. we are witnessing a curious situation where - for example - polish citizens are still treated as potential emigrants for earnings, although the united states of north america has long been their target. they can work in the countries of the union that have opened their labour markets to them. there is no economic, let alone political reason why they cannot travel visa-free to the united states. it is to be hoped that at the next eu-us summit, the eu countries will put this problem forward in a decisive way and finally resolve it.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking to the most important partner for the european union, we have differences on many issues, but in fact, no other overseas country is as close to us as the united states. at the same time, however, within the global system, we have different approaches to some key issues that affect our entire planet. the european union has made climate action the flagship of its activities - a priority for all past and future eu presidencies. the united states agrees that it is primarily human activities that are causing climate change, but it does not want to make commitments to combat climate change. we the european union, on the contrary, have adopted a very strict emissions reduction programme. this is going to be a very tough program for our economy. we decided to do this because we want others to join us. that's our goal, because we can't save the planet by ourselves. the united states is almost the largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world. getting this largest emitter to commit to a common commitment can lead to a global agreement in poznan and copenhagen, and only if we can achieve such an agreement will our emissions reduction programme not be wasted. that is why i believe that talking to the united states about this and presenting our projects and convincing them to act together on the international stage at the next climate convention is one of the most important, if not the most important, points for the european union today.
mr. chairman, please! the world is in trouble. first, the economic situation is deteriorating. secondly, the political use of the availability of raw materials, the rise in their prices, including the rise in food prices. the third is terrorism. fourth, local armed conflicts. they are not within the power of any country to resolve, and therefore dialogue and cooperation between the union and the united states are needed. but there is another side to the coin, the economic and political rivalry between the european union and the united states, and that is why we need responsible agreements on the most important issues, so that the rivalry does not divide. the economic issues in particular need to be settled. the world should not be held hostage to speculative capital and commodity monopolies. europe cannot become a global warming propagandist with al gore at the expense of its own businesses. with the us presidency in the making, europe should clearly identify its own political priorities and the solutions it proposes.
in writing. – the forthcoming eu-us summit will give both transatlantic partners a chance to find common ground on issues relevant to both sides of the atlantic. our continents share a common civilisation and a past. we have to ensure that the knot of this relationship is as strong as possible so we can achieve the goals that are not only important for both sides but are global necessities. the growing and extreme need for energy by emerging economies, rising food prices, and conflicts around the world are just some of the issues that the eu-us partnership has to work on together for peace, sustainability, and to facilitate human dignity around the globe. one of the success stories of this relationship is nato, an organisation we should all support and strengthen as it has secured peace in europe and developed deeper ties between the eu and the us.
mr. chairman, please! the polish shipbuilding industry is facing total liquidation, as the european commission is demanding the reimbursement of public aid. as a result, thousands of workers will lose their jobs in the baltic and tens of thousands of workers in cooperating factories in poland and the european union countries as well. the european commission is hiding behind the slogan of free competition, unwilling to take into account that in a period of rapid price increases in the world, certain sectors of the economy need to be protected, as the asian countries are doing. the european commission does not want to remember that more than 1.5 billion marks of aid has been given by the german government to the eastern länder, including the shipyards on the baltic. i ask whether the people and the place from which the solidarity movement, the fall of the berlin wall, the liberation of europe began, are to fall victim to arbitrary decisions in brussels in the interests of speculators who want to make a fortune on the ruins and the shipyard grounds. we demand such decisions from the european commission that will make it possible to save and develop the shipbuilding industry in poland.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to protest in the european parliament against the unlawful termination by the national environmental protection fund, which is subordinate to the polish government, of the contract with the lux veritatis foundation for the implementation of a geothermal investment for toruń, while announcing the non-reimbursement of the huge costs incurred by the foundation for this investment. the circumstances indicate that the decision was politically motivated and contrary not only to polish domestic law but also to community law, which proves that in the name of combating persons perceived as political enemies, legislation is not respected and the promotion of renewable energy production is prevented, also violating the principle of non-discrimination on political and religious grounds, which is fundamental for the union. the former authorities of the national environmental and water protection fund state that the application of the lux veritatis foundation was examined very carefully and did not raise any doubts
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - mr president! - what are you doing? the international community recognises trade as an essential factor in development. the stronger involvement of developing countries in multilateral relations is a very important step towards the elimination of global poverty. the gsp is therefore not conducive to the development of european union trade. it shall in particular aim at supporting developing countries, including the least developed countries. the main objectives of the scheme should therefore be: poverty reduction, sustainable development and good governance in developing countries, and the achievement of the millennium development goals. as an opinion-giver on the committee on development, i would like to stress that the report by mr markov is a very good report and i would like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee on foreign trade for accepting the opinion of the committee on development. the two committees do not always work together as harmoniously as they do in this case. thank you very much. among the issues we agreed to prioritise were: strengthening the role of the european parliament in the decision-making process of the system to increase transparency, legal certainty and democratic control; facilitating the determination of country of origin rules to optimise the application of preferences, for example through regional cumulation, which will at the same time promote regional cooperation in poorer countries; equal treatment of all countries as candidates for gsp plus, irrespective of when they meet the criteria of the system; and finally, as important as possible, an insightful, complete and detailed analysis of the functioning of the system before its next review in 2013-14. parliament would like to know the effects of the system. the key is to know how far the preferential tariff system contributes to poverty reduction.
mr. chairman, please! if the aim of our action is poverty reduction in third countries and economic integration, then indeed the european union's tariff preferences programme is the right direction. at the same time, we must be aware of the need to ensure maximum transparency in the customs system. i therefore think that it is necessary to monitor this process and that it would be worthwhile, in the next stages, in the next debates in this house, to look at the results of the solutions currently being put in place.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much, but i can assure you that i am really enjoying it here and i know that my dear colleague regrets very much that he cannot be here for this discussion. this exchange of views is very close to his heart, but i can assure you he is not wasting his time: he is travelling to an important meeting outside brussels. the joint parliamentary assembly is a unique institution. mr michel is my neighbour in the college meeting and this morning he explained everything to me about the functioning of the assembly, so now i can claim to know a little bit about that. he mentioned that the jpa is where the spirit of partnership that lies at the heart of the cotonou agreement can be witnessed directly, as 156 elected representatives from the european union and from african, caribbean and pacific countries discuss together the core issues of their cooperation. that is real north-south dialogue, a dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect, going beyond the traditional recipient-donor relationship. that is the parliamentary embodiment of ownership and control. over the past years the joint parliamentary assembly has become increasingly parliamentary in stature and in conduct, reflecting the maturity of the cooperation between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries. those debates are more open and regional conflicts less frequent. that is indeed a worthwhile achievement. the assembly has indeed become a framework for an open political dialogue, showing itself capable of discussing issues of great sensitivity and major political relevance such as good governance, access to healthcare and the impact of foreign direct investment, the migration of skilled workers and the economic partnership agreements. the excellent report of mr hutchinson and the committee on development presents this evolution eloquently and on behalf of mr michel and myself i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. it presents the achievements and the challenges and explores the possibilities of future development. one achievement was the leading role that the joint parliamentary assembly played in the monitoring of the epa negotiations, ensuring a two-way information flow thanks to the discussions with the chief negotiators and with my dear colleague mr michel on this matter during the year. another important leap has been the transmission by the commission to the assembly of the country and regional strategy papers. that demonstrates the confidence in the capacity of the assembly to play a more political role and provides an opportunity to show further signs of maturity. in order to enhance parliamentary scrutiny, commissioner michel asked the commission delegations to transmit these strategy papers also to the speakers of the national parliaments via the national authorising officer of the edf in the beneficiary countries. as you are aware, the commission cannot transmit them directly since according to the cotonou agreement the nao is our official contact point for all questions of programming and of edf implementation. at the same time, the jpa secretariat has also been transmitting these documents to the representatives of the respective countries in the jpa. we thus have reason to believe that the national parliaments are informed and can take their part in the monitoring and control of development programmes. it is true that the capacity of national parliaments to play their role fully in the preparation and execution of the edf is often limited. that is why the edf finances institutional support in many acp countries. beyond the scrutiny of country strategy papers, the best way to ensure parliamentary control of edf funds is to put in place general or sectoral budget support programmes. in this way the external funds are completely integrated into the national budgetary procedure where national parliaments play a key role. that is one of the reasons for the commission’s decision to attribute about 45% of the 10th edf to budget support programmed in 44 countries, compared to just 25 at the start of the 9th edf, so there is an upward trend. lastly, let me take this opportunity to add my congratulations to the government and parliament of rwanda and to the german presidency for their excellent organisation of last year’s assembly sessions.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank and congratulate mr hutchinson on his report, which is very good. i share the rapporteur's views, observations and satisfaction on such issues as the deeper involvement of the members of the assembly in his work, the quality of the debates, the more timely nature of these debates. i agree that it is very positive that ngos are becoming more involved in the work of the assembly. at the same time, i cannot help but mention a few of the sadder aspects of observing the work of the joint assembly. i think it is a great pity that in the discussions, debates and negotiations on joint projects between the acp side and the representatives of the european parliament, not all the thematic areas are covered with the same depth of dialogue and the same willingness to find a common position. i have the impression that the acp side is more focused on economic issues and less attention and commitment on political issues. in 2007, there was a tremendous amount of enthusiasm and determination in the economic discussions, particularly the negotiations on the epas economic partnership agreements, and there is nothing wrong with that. but it's hard to see an equally strong motivation to solve difficult but important political problems. mr hutchinson mentioned that we had a debate on the situation in zimbabwe, but there was no resolution. but the trend of not passing resolutions continues. this year we had a debate on chad, a compromise text was adopted, but the resolution itself was rejected by the acp partners. i think our goal should be to achieve a better balance between economic goals and political goals. i understand that sometimes it's easier to focus on economic issues because they seem more relevant and easier to pursue politically. our european side should focus on showing that there is no sustainable development without peace, stability, human rights, the rule of law and better governance.
mr. chairman, please! i also wanted to congratulate mr. hutchinson on a wonderful report. i think it is important that we should pay attention to the importance of this kind of contact between parliaments, between parliamentary groups, between the european parliament and the acp countries and eurolat, in the global dialogue. i think that's the form that should prevail in our contacts. what happens between the governments is a little different. the dialogue that takes place between parliaments is a much wider dialogue, involves wider debates and i think it better reflects the interests and concerns of the countries that are participating in this dialogue, and so this type of dialogue seems to me to be particularly valuable. there are also political aspects that we would like to maintain, such as the issue of peace, respect for human rights, the functioning of civil society.
madam president! the council regulation is an interesting example of preventive legislation, a regulation against illegal fishing that threatens the sustainability of fish stocks. the chances of this particular document being effective are first and foremost created by the clarity of the solutions proposed. a precise definition of the legislator's intention. the rapporteur has captured the specific nature of the regulation very well, with very helpful interpretative exercises that simply facilitate the correct reading of the most important provisions. the governments of the southern and eastern baltic states have made extensive references to this important legislative initiative. however, the council's proposed criteria for punishing illegal fishermen are still the subject of debate in the scientific community. the question is asked again: does the idea of seeking to guarantee the effectiveness of the penalty by formalizing it to a great extent take account of the diversity of the fishing potential of european waters? should the possibility of making the amount of the fine dependent on the size of the fish stocks and the fishing quotas in force for overfished species not be taken into account in future legislative work? i believe that the recently published revised assessment of the ics in relation to the baltic ecosystem is a harbinger of a softening in fisheries policy, a process of adjustment to the european union's revolutionary approach to conserving resources. the european parliament's committee on fisheries has proactively added a special amendment which treats the first year of application of the regulation as a transitional, adaptation period allowing member states to take the necessary adaptation measures.
madam president! the european union is an active participant in the search for global solutions to the use of advanced fishing gear. instead of a total ban on their use, it advocates strict restrictions on their use. the regulation in question is a modus vivendi. however, the legislative effects achieved are not always based on a clear and convincing record. the smaller fisheries, which lack the possibility of regular detailed surveys, are simply concerned about whether they will be able to meet the requirement to draw up an appropriate fishing plan, including the requirement to determine the depth at which fishing gear will be used, or - which is of particular concern to poorer fisheries - the configuration of the seabed.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am pleased that you allow me to react to the report prepared by jean-pierre audy and unanimously adopted by the committee on international trade on 6 may. i congratulate the rapporteur, who perfectly highlighted the essential contribution of customs legislation and customs services to an effective implementation of our common trade policy, and also identified the important challenges that the union is facing in this matter. my services are doing their best to ensure that regulations or agreements on international trade take fully into account the contribution, but also the necessary constraints, of customs concepts and procedures. they also actively defend the community interests in international organisations dealing with customs matters, in particular the world customs organisation and the world trade organisation. that is particularly the case concerning the rules of origin, both non-preferential and preferential. on 27 may, the committee on international trade was informed of the state of play of the reform of these rules for the generalised system of preferences. i am confident that, based on the various contributions received, the commission will be in a position to find support from the member states to complete this reform. that is also true concerning the wto negotiations on trade facilitation. the commission is still convinced at this stage that a trade facilitation agreement should remain one of the pillars of the conclusion of the doha round, and should not be removed from it. of course, the results of the negotiations on trade facilitation achieved so far should in any case not be lost. important steps have been taken to respond to the threats posed by counterfeited, pirated and dangerous products. new procedures have been introduced into customs legislation for the purpose of guaranteeing security and safety. the modernised community customs code, published today, and the decision on the electronic customs published in january represent major milestones in the constant but dynamic contribution of customs legislation to both the protection of european citizens and the competitiveness of our economy by facilitating legitimate trade. they constitute examples of good interinstitutional cooperation. the report also legitimately insists on the need for further harmonisation and uniformity in the implementation of the customs legislation, and for further improving the organisation and working methods of our customs administrations. in my view, further harmonisation in implementing customs legislation can be achieved through the following initiatives: the current work on the implementation of the modernised customs code and the e-customs decision; a new programme for targeted monitoring of the correct and uniform application of customs legislation, and an assessment, in partnership with the member states, of the needs and possibilities to approximate customs offences and penalties. the ‘customs 2013’ programme also represents an important tool in that respect. to conclude, i would like to react to the points of the report concerning the us 100% scanning initiative. the commission is using all possible channels to make the us authorities understand that they have chosen the wrong way to secure the supply chain. the commission provided the us government in april with a solid report, prepared with the contribution of member states, which stresses the negative impact of this measure on the european ports, international trade and maritime traffic.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to draw attention to three points in speaking on behalf of the uen group in this debate. first, many countries involved in international trade, even those that are members of the wto, do not respect social and environmental standards, which significantly reduces their production costs, but at the same time prevents fair competition. improving access to the european market for goods from these countries must take this into account, otherwise many manufacturing sectors in europe will simply be eliminated. secondly, the increasing openness of the european market to agricultural products from third countries in exchange for concessions from these countries to european exports of industrial products and services is indeed the realization of commissioner mandelson's idea that the european union must make concessions to other countries in the wto negotiations, because the european union gains more from industrial exports than it loses from less protection of agriculture, but unfortunately this means a lasting weakening of european agricultural potential. finally, thirdly, the european commission must react much more quickly than it has so far to the violation of agreements on access to the european market by exporters from third countries, and if exports from these countries disrupt european production, the commission must act immediately and not after many months.
in writing. – as football fans all over europe await the opening of euro 2008 it is time to reflect on the dangers to women, especially from the former soviet republics, who will be victims of trafficking and subject to the ordeal of forced prostitution in order to meet demand for sexual services at the venues of the football matches. what will be a wonderful celebration of the best european sporting traditions for many will also be a time of physical and psychological suffering for those unfortunate young women who, in their naivety, believe that the attractive jobs they are being offered in the hospitality sector will be limited to work as waitresses or behind a bar. it is time to reiterate the call for the remaining 17 member states of the european union who have so far failed to ratify the european convention on action against trafficking in human beings to do so without further delay. eu member states who champion human rights causes can surely offer no excuse for failing to adopt this convention, which was adopted in warsaw over three years ago.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union has many 'old' european neighbours to the south and many 'new' european neighbours to the east. in one case, we are dealing with an instrument of external cooperation which is and should be strengthened, but which will not lead to membership for any of the countries. for the eastern neighbourhood partners, the prospect of membership is inevitable. effective forms of neighbourhood cooperation are not geared towards this goal, but a successful neighbourhood process inevitably leads to this perspective. the barcelona process needs a new political impetus, because the uniform policy approach for the eastern and southern neighbourhoods is now appealing to everyone. it is therefore fortunate that two projects have appeared on the european agenda almost in parallel - the mediterranean union and the eastern partnership. as a neighbour of ukraine, belarus, moldova and georgia, i would very much like to see the neighbourhood policy towards the south and the east not become a destructive competition but complementary. for example, from the point of view of budget negotiations, we can only win together. we need mutual political solidarity in shaping the eastern and southern aspects of the neighbourhood policy. we also urgently need to align the scale of our institutional, political, aid and economic policies towards the south and the east. that is why i am today strongly in favour of strengthening and renewing the framework of the neighbourhood policy towards the mediterranean countries. we support projects in credit, transportation, energy, and we also support institutional reforms in the south. we also expect similar support in the future for strengthening the policy towards the east.
mr. chairman, please! europa is actually an organism that has two lungs. one of the lungs is the mediterranean dimension, which we're talking about, and the other is the eastern dimension, which is the countries that border poland, among others: ukraine, belarus, russia, also the countries of the caucasus region georgia, armenia. it is good that today, 13 years after barcelona, we are talking so much about this necessary mediterranean dimension of our european policy. it is worth emphasising, however, that this is part of a larger whole, that the policy towards the mediterranean countries is necessary, reassessed, but nevertheless it is part of the wider foreign policy of the european union, among which there must be a very important place for the policy towards the future members of the european union. i don't think any of the mediterranean countries we're talking about today will be a member of the european union, and i don't think ukraine or georgia or armenia will be.
mr. chairman, please! the mediterranean and the middle east are strategically important regions for the european union. there is an undeniable need to create an area of peace and economic stability based on the principles of democracy, solidarity and cooperation in order to face common challenges. the barcelona process needs to be revived and developed, leading to a strong partnership in the fields of foreign and security policy and the fight against terrorism. the euro-mediterranean partnership cannot, however, focus solely on economic and trade issues. it should be accompanied by enhanced regional cooperation and increased social integration and cooperation in the field of environmental protection. we should also stress the need to strengthen policies to increase the role of women in mediterranean societies by promoting gender equality, as respect for traditions and customs does not have to be at the expense of women's fundamental rights. finally, i would like to express my appreciation for the commission's proposal for a euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, whose role and democratic legitimacy should be strengthened.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr schnellhardt makes a number of substantial amendments to the commission's proposal, including the division between regulation no 852 of the european parliament and of the council on the hygiene of foodstuffs and regulation no 11. requiring greater flexibility in the approach to food hygiene by competent authorities and simplifying procedures is of particular importance for small enterprises operating in local and regional markets. the implementation of the regulation will depend on cooperation between the supervisory authorities at different levels of the market, on continuous monitoring and on the provision of appropriate assistance by the commission, for example in the exchange of good practices. the regulation, taking into account the amendments made by the rapporteur, will have a positive impact on the market. we support the ordinance.
mr. chairman, please! i support the commission's proposal. reducing the bureaucratic burden on small businesses, small shops and service establishments will give more of them a chance to exist and is therefore in the interests of small businesses, their employees and consumers. therefore, as long as the haccp criteria are not violated and food production and services are hygienic, it is worth helping small, mainly family-run bakeries, pastry shops, meat and vegetable shops and corner cafes. however, the effects of these legislative changes need to be monitored at a later stage. i congratulate the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, please! i do not support today's resolution on georgia because i think it is too biased. the situation in the caucasus is more complex than is apparent from the text of today's resolution. i would also like to remind you that georgia owes its territorial shape to the policy pursued by joseph stalin in the caucasus in the 1920s and 1930s. in the 1990s, the georgians also did a lot to push the sukhumi authorities to secede from georgia. i also do not understand why the same parliamentarians who so willingly supported the independence of serbian kosovo recently, are now denying the right of self-determination to two historic caucasian peoples. i support the resumption of international efforts to promote dialogue and the peace process in the caucasus.
mr. chairman, please! we live in a time of peace and stability that we've worked so hard to achieve since the end of world war ii. today, however, the threat of terrorism, regional conflicts, and international crime is still present. the role of the european union today should be to promote peace, democracy and freedom in the world, to guarantee stability, to prevent humanitarian disasters and massive human rights violations. this is also the vision of the european security strategy. we share responsibility for world-class security. today, security is not just about resolving international conflicts or protecting borders. today, security needs to be seen in a broader way. we need to put more emphasis on those kinds of security that are not covered by the european security strategy, namely energy or food security. we must remember that only cooperation and the sharing of best practices will allow us to achieve our goal. coordination is needed both at member state level and between the various european institutions, as well as cooperation with nato and other regional and global organisations.
mr. chairman, please! the challenge is to encourage young people to stay in rural areas, and there is a lack of people willing to take up farming or take over from their parents. young farmers who start farming face many difficulties: lack of good land or high land prices, production limits, lack of start-up capital for investment, expensive loans, high agri-environmental requirements. in poland, nearly one third of farmers are young people under the age of 40. it is a group open to change, technological progress and innovation. young farmers are usually enterprising, energetic people who are not afraid of new challenges. it is also our future, because the food security of europe and the world depends on them. they must be given the opportunity to improve their skills through vocational training and counselling, the economic conditions for farming in rural areas must be improved, the gap between rural and urban areas in the development of social and technical infrastructure must be closed and, above all, stable conditions for development must be ensured.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 4/2008 of the european union for the financial year 2008 (9904/2008 c6-0207/2008 2008/2094 ((bud)). mr kyösti virrankoski has written a report that is both reliable and accurate. i agree with the rapporteur that the balance of each financial year should be entered as revenue or expenditure in the budget for the following financial year, in this case for 2008, by means of the amending budget submitted to the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs marie-hélène aubert on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (com (2007) 0602 c6-0454/2007 2007/0223 cns). the report is written in a reliable way that accurately reflects the problem of illegal fishing, which is a real threat to the sustainability of marine resources. it therefore seems appropriate to establish a community system to prevent that practice.
in writing. - illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a serious problem. to combat this problem effectively and actively, the european community should draw on the experience of countries which, although not part of the european union, have much more restrictive rules on combating illegal fishing. these include norway, iceland and canada. the first priority must be to combat fishing offences within the community. so far, this is a very serious problem. the next step should be to support developing countries that wish to adopt an iuu programme. unfortunately, they do not have the financial resources to do so.
in writing. - more than two billion tonnes of goods pass through eu ports and airports every year. customs authorities process more than 100 million customs declarations. they thus protect the health and safety of eu citizens. customs also fight counterfeiting. this is a growing and dangerous phenomenon affecting not only luxury fashion but also medicine, toothpaste, and personal care products. customs authorities detain counterfeit spare parts for cars, such as brake systems. fake sunglasses can cause damage to your eyes. combating and preventing such practices contributes to improving the health and safety of citizens. the customs authorities have put in place appropriate security controls to protect the internal market. in close cooperation with important trading partners in the international arena, they safeguard international freight transport against the smuggling of goods related to terrorist activities.
in writing. − the proposal to relaunch the solidarity fund is contained in amending budget no 3/2008. the previous proposal for the united kingdom (eur 162 million), together with the proposal currently under consideration for greece and slovenia (eur 98 million in total), leaves a wide margin of manoeuvre for the second half of 2008, given the annual ceiling of the fund of eur 1 billion. the other formal conditions laid down in the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 are also fulfilled. the committee on budgets was able to obtain any further clarifications at a meeting in may with representatives of countries affected by the 2007 natural disasters - forest fires in greece and floods in slovenia. as usual on such occasions, the only question is the timing of the eu institutions' reaction. we raise this problem to the point of boredom. greece and slovenia submitted applications in october and november 2007. the amending budget was presented by the european commission on 14 april 2008. you could say that this is a faster pace than the previous applications, but it's still not a satisfactory pace. the european parliament's swift response and the good cooperation of the committee on regional development and the committee on budgets, with a positive view of the aid proposals for the affected countries, are all the more noteworthy.
in writing. - i support the report by mr mathieu grosch on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for access to the market for coach and bus services (com (2007) 0264). the report aims to find the best possible solution for both regular and occasional transport. its main purpose is to simplify the legal provisions governing the provision of coach and bus services. currently, two regulations regulate access to this market. according to these, international transport of occasional services has been liberalised. as regards international scheduled services, there is still a clear need to facilitate the authorisation process in all eu member states. the legal framework should therefore be simplified, inter alia by combining the abovementioned regulations, by strengthening cooperation between community countries and by introducing rational regulations. this will greatly facilitate the international movement of goods and improve controls by harmonising documentation and procedures. i am also pleased that some simplifications are provided for in the case of regular transport services for border regions. the question of bus and coach transit is also well-developed. if such transit takes place, the competent authorities in the member state will only be informed that an authorisation has been granted by the eu countries concerned by the transport service.
in writing. − the societies of the european nations are paying increasing attention to the quality of goods and services. quality has become a competitive element between companies, as is reflected, among other things, by the existence of an appropriate certificate of conformity with quality standards. the most widely used and respected are the iso 9000 series standards. in 1975 haccp was officially accepted by the world health organisation and in 1993 it was adopted by the food code commission as an essential tool for food production control. a properly implemented haccp system, together with a quality system compliant with iso 9000 standards, is considered to be the best tool for the provision of healthy food. the primary purpose of the method and the haccp system based on it is to prevent hazards throughout the food chain, to ensure the health safety of the final product and to respond appropriately when problems arise.
in writing. − i support the report by mrs karin scheele on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 96/22/ec relating to the prohibition on the use on farms of certain hormonal, thyrostatic and β-antagonist compounds (com (2007) 292). the report is an action to find the optimum solution between the care of people who are consumers and the welfare of animals. it shall also take into account the needs of scientific research in the veterinary field. in particular, i think it is very right that the use of the hormone estradiol 17β be completely banned in meat production. the concern for an appropriate level of food safety should be a priority, especially since the products covered by the directive may contribute to serious cancers in humans. on the other hand, the proposed changes allow for the effective treatment of pets suffering from hyperthyroidism or other troublesome diseases. so it's also an example of taking care of the health of pets and farm animals.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? russia is taking actions against georgia that are unacceptable in the light of international standards. using its economic influence in many eu countries, russia is apparently testing how far it can go in its neo-imperial drive to block georgia's relations with the west at all costs. i would like to stress once again that the russian so-called peacekeeping forces in abkhazia should be replaced immediately by independent peacekeeping forces under the command of the eu or the un. the eu should continue to demonstrate its full support for georgia, as it did today in the european parliament, systematically strengthen cooperation and introduce visa facilitation for georgians without delay, especially now that the process has been fully democratic. the resolution adopted today is an expression of such support for a sovereign georgia and i am pleased that it was on the initiative of the law and justice meps that a debate was held in the european parliament at the beginning of may, which is complemented by today's resolution as europe's official position on georgia.
in writing. - i voted for the georgia resolution. the georgians need our support and solidarity. solidarity is not so much needed when everything is going well and happy. solidarity is especially needed when someone is in trouble, when they are in need. today, the georgians are in need. we should not only show our support, we should do everything possible to protect this country and this nation from a conflict that could prove to be tragic. there is evidence that georgia and russia have recently been on the brink of armed conflict. it is our duty to convince everyone to find a political and peaceful solution. i hope that even the most difficult problems can be solved through negotiation, compromise and goodwill. i also hope that the international community will actively and effectively support the process of mediation and the search for a lasting, just and mutually acceptable solution. the situation in georgia also shows how important the european neighbourhood policy and its eastern dimension are to our policy.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? first of all, i would like to congratulate mr saryusz-wolski on the preparation of his report on the european union's common foreign and security policy. i agree with the rapporteur that it is not enough to talk about a common foreign policy, we must show that the european union is ready to take a common position on key issues. on major issues such as russia's aggressive energy policy, the developments in kosovo and the tibet issue, the eu has recently proved that the cfsp remains a distant goal. as long as the european union allows its credibility to be called into question on the international stage, as in the cases mentioned above, and as long as individual member states continue to pursue bilateral activities, the implementation of the cfsp will remain on the agenda merely as an objective. we will not get another common policy text unless we start speaking with one voice on the key issues for europe.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i supported the resolution on the eu-us summit because, in addition to the bilateral partnership and the challenges of globalisation, it raises the issue of visas, which is important for polish citizens. poles who want to visit the united states for tourism purposes still have to go through the cumbersome and expensive visa process. visa refusal (in poland, about 25%) is mainly and solely due to the suspicion of consular staff that the person concerned may have the intention of taking up illegal work. most of them are leaving to meet their families - as many as three-quarters of the 10 million poles in the us are from lesser poland, so it's no wonder that there are such huge queues outside the us consulate in krakow. i think the very existence of such a procedure vis-à-vis an eu member state is an example of how much the eu needs a strong position in its dialogue with the united states.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the proportion of young farmers in the eu continues to fall, with only 7% under the age of 35. in many cases, young people leave farming because of the high investment costs that prevent them from gaining a competitive position in the market. that is why we should help them to use existing eu grants for this purpose. it would be beneficial to grant them low-interest loans so that they can carry out their projects without the risk of high indebtedness. in addition, care must be taken to ensure that the criteria for access to eu subsidies are not too stringent and do not disqualify small farms that focus on specificity rather than on production scale (these are the most numerous in southern poland and in the lesser poland and świętokrzyskie voivodships). mr veraldi's report covers all these issues, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the adoption by the european parliament, by a large majority, of a report on the future of young farmers in the reform of the common agricultural policy is a cause for satisfaction. the declarations of increased european union aid for young farmers are of particular importance, and one of them is the declaration on easier access to preferential loans for this group of farmers. further practical assistance is needed to create a real prospect of decent earnings for young farmers who want to continue the family tradition in the malopolska voivodeship. if the promised aid delivers the expected results, the phenomenon of a small polish village inhabited by elderly people caring for grandchildren whose parents find their only chance of success in work outside poland may become less common. that is why this report has not only an economic but also a social dimension. young farmers want to keep the tradition alive, but they also know that without the exchange of experience and technology, they cannot transform family farms into modern, competitive and profitable enterprises. the resolution adopted today is therefore a particularly important element in the promotion of the development of modern agricultural production methods and tools.
in writing. - as a member of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i would like to congratulate mr hutchinson and fully support his report. the functioning of this assembly, and in particular the possibility of direct contacts between parliamentarians from both sides, strongly underlines the presence of the european union in the most remote corners of africa, the caribbean and the pacific. the assembly is not only focused on its rigid agenda but also responds quickly to current events and emergencies. the european council has adopted a number of resolutions and resolutions, which have triggered the union's assistance, both in kind and in financial terms, which is so necessary and so expected, especially in areas affected by natural disasters. i would like to express my satisfaction with the organisational formula adopted: meeting in europe and in another acp country alternately allows the assembly members to better know and understand the local reality. i also support the formula of workshops, information missions and research missions that accompanies the assembly. however, i am particularly keen to support the idea of a women's forum as a forum for discussion and sharing of good practice in the field of equal treatment between women and men. if the european parliament wants to be perceived in the acp countries as an institution that promotes democratic standards, it cannot, in my view, turn a blind eye to the harm that women so often suffer there.
in writing. − the rapporteur rightly points to the need to create an appropriate framework for an open, democratic and substantive dialogue to negotiate economic cooperation agreements between the eu and acp countries. in addition, a stronger involvement of national parliaments and national societies is an important aspect of strengthening eu-acp cooperation. particular attention should also be paid to regional cooperation and integration and to peacebuilding, in particular in those parts of the acp countries where the political situation remains unstable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. it is a good and useful idea for the standing committee of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly to follow up resolutions by interviewing committee officials responsible for specific areas. until now, the procedure has been confined to a plenary sitting. the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union has many tasks. their main objective is the economic development of the acp countries.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to refer today to an incident that took place recently in warsaw. a person with close ties to the chinese embassy in poland attacked a woman who was peddling the opposition magazine the epoch times. a similar pattern has been seen in new york city for some time, where chinese consulate-sponsored groups have attacked falun gong practitioners and peaceful pro-tibet protesters. if similar practices are repeated in other countries, we will be dealing with a clear violation of the vienna convention on diplomatic relations, adopted in 1961. moreover, while the chinese regime is doing its best to present itself in a good light at the olympic games, it has not stopped persecuting groups that represent an ideology other than communist. on the contrary, it sharpens them and exports them to the territory of western democratic countries. i therefore call on the authorities of the union and the member states to monitor the situation closely and to take decisive action should the situation i have described begin to recur.
mr. chairman, please! in any case, even the most unambiguous, solutions must be adopted taking into account the context and the relationship between the other objectives, their weight and the cost of achieving them. in any issue, especially one that affects the lives of billions of people as profoundly as climate change, moderation, common sense and basic fairness are needed to find solutions. i don't see the justice in the proposal to limit carbon emissions. the two main solutions are: equal treatment of highly developed countries, which are large contributors to the current carbon emissions, as well as many pollutants and higher technological capabilities, and of less developed countries, especially those whose economy is based on coal, and equal treatment of large car manufacturers, where reducing carbon emissions by 20% is easier, and of small cars, where these emissions are low and reducing them generates higher costs. and the result is that it's not about the climate, it's about business.
madam president! i congratulate the rapporteur on her realistic presentation of the growing problem of waste. the main thrust of the proposed regulations is waste prevention and material recycling. thermal recycling is easier, but it should not outpace more difficult material recycling. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the recycling of waste. we need better and cheaper recycling technologies. products should be designed to facilitate recycling. selective collection and marketing is needed to benefit both households and potential users of secondary materials. without this, we risk a repeat of the current situation in naples, where unfortunately, incineration may be the only option.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. sources of surface and groundwater pollution are thousands not only agriculture and agro-food industry, mines, chemical plants, but also households. wherever there is no treatment plant, we are poisoning our scarce water resources. landfills are the source of many toxic substances, and the wastewater from landfills cannot be treated by biological treatment plants because bacteria are also poisonous. the same is true of the denim deposits in lakes and artificial reservoirs. how to clean it is the problem. if they go into the seas or oceans, then they poison the whole globe, and that's what happens in succession. cleaning up the sediment in these tanks will be very expensive, and there are no methods. i would like to mention again the thousands of tons of obsolete pesticides that are systematically poisoning our water and have already reached depths of up to 1,000 meters underground. and that is why our group believes that despite the costs, the directive should take a broader view of water protection.
member of the commission. - the mr president, in addition to the elements i have mentioned in my introductory statement, the proposed directive also contributes to the process of simplifying european union water legislation. you will recall that the water framework directive already contains provisions to repeal 7 earlier legislative acts dating back to the 1970s and 1980s. this directive will repeal five additional directives and at the same time simplify water reporting in the context of wise, the newly established water information system for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. you will also remember that parliament attached particular importance to the objective of eliminating or phasing out certain substances included in the water framework directive. the planned inventory list, including maps, will be a necessary source of information for all, as well as a tool for assessments by the commission when considering whether the environmental objective of progressive reduction or phasing out is being met. the water framework directive and its daughter directive will provide a stable, predictable and long-term basis for decision-making at all levels, from the river basin level to the local level and the european level. this is particularly important for the preparation of river basin management plans and programmes of measures to be submitted by december 2009. the commission presented last year its first report on the implementation of the water framework directive, which includes an assessment of achievements and shortcomings. it is now the member states' turn to meet their obligations in time. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that regional development and cohesion policy and rural development policy provide means of financing from the european union. it is the right and responsibility of the member states to choose the priorities and projects. as regards drinking water, article 7 of the water framework directive already sets out the obligations for drinking water and this compromise does not change the relevant procedures and provisions. as regards mixed zones, i would say that member states should indicate compliance with article 15 of the water framework directive and the measures they are taking to reduce the expansion of mixed zones, as well as the international coordination for the designation of mixed zones. the commission will also not object if a member state wishes to impose stricter environmental standards. finally, the commission is pleased to express its full support for the compromise package to reach agreement on this directive at second reading; i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the excellent work she has done. as regards the problem raised by mr macsharry concerning the transport of water to cyprus, i am aware that this problem exists and i will answer it later.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 17 june 2008.
the next item is the commission statement on strengthening the european union's response capacity to disasters.
mr. chairman, please! i'm in the five, too. i was just saying that in a natural disaster, we have two actions. it is one thing to prevent them as much as possible, such as floods, but when they do occur, we must first and foremost care for the people who are affected by them. one aspect of the operation is psychological support. we can imagine someone who loses all their possessions, their house, whatever it is, in a flood, and still lives, but lives in poverty, with a sense of great loss. i know from experience that the work of psychologists is very much needed at that time, so i think that in such crisis groups, we need to anticipate and prepare funds for this, so that psychologists can immediately take action to help these people.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank all the speakers for their very positive contributions. the commission is committed to making a substantial contribution to strengthening the community's capacity to respond to disasters. in its communication of march, as well as in measures under preparation, the commission takes an integrated approach. first, we look at all phases of disaster: prevention, preparedness, preparedness, immediate response and long-term recovery. secondly, we are looking at all kinds of disasters both inside and outside the european union, both natural and man-made. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, on the solidarity fund, there is a convergence of views between parliament and the european commission on the revision of the solidarity fund. unfortunately, the council refuses to accept this revision. the commission, however, does not intend to withdraw its proposal and hopes that the council will be persuaded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's forest fires are not reduced to a mere waste of time and resources. in the field of safe buildings, the commission was the main driving force behind the adoption of the eurocodes. these are the european standards for the earthquake resistance of buildings. these standards are now being incorporated and applied in national legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you, however, that the council must be unanimous in its approval. we all know that there is no consensus among the member states at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would simply remind you that under the treaty of lisbon we would have had a qualified majority in the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the commission notes the strong interest and growing role of the european parliament in the field of disaster response and looks forward to working well with parliament and the council in defining the limits of subsidiarity with a view to further promoting and developing the european dimension in disaster response.
i have received one draft resolution - see minutes - tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on the 40th anniversary of the customs union on 1 july 2008.
mr. chairman, please! the customs union is an essential element of the internal market of the european union, which cannot function properly without common rules at its external borders. in addition to its obvious function of collecting customs duties, the customs union plays a huge role in protecting the health and safety of our citizens. in recent months, we have spent a lot of time in parliament discussing, among other things, the safety of products, in particular toys and counterfeiting. we all want to have products that meet certain criteria, and above all that do not endanger our health or our lives. i would like to remind you that, contrary to popular belief, counterfeiting is not limited to high-end and expensive products, but also to car parts and everyday products such as food and medicines. many of these products are placed on the european internal market from third countries. the scale of this phenomenon is illustrated by the numbers. in 2007, customs authorities seized some 128 million counterfeit products. this represents an increase of 70% compared to 2005. the drug alone accounted for 380 percent of the total. of course, the reasons for this increase may vary. this may be due to an increased flow of counterfeits into the union, but also to an improvement in their detection by customs. but let us remember that standards alone are not enough if there is no effective control at our borders, and especially no control carried out in the same way at every section of our external border. the effective fight against counterfeiting entering the union requires enhanced cooperation between the customs authorities and supervisory authorities of the member states of the union, but also with the customs authorities of third countries. this amplification must keep pace with technological change. it is therefore essential that customs services throughout the european union have the appropriate equipment to enable them to carry out their tasks effectively.
mr. chairman, please! the customs union, which was established on 1 july 1968, was the first step towards deepening the economic integration of the then six member states. it can be considered a success story in the history of european integration. as we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the customs union, it is also worth noting that this is a perfect example of how effective cooperation can be achieved among 27 member states, since there is not just one customs service of the european union, but 20 national customs services with different competences and different forms of organisation, which cooperate with each other on the basis of a common european policy and a common legal framework defining the rules and procedures in force. the customs administrations of the 27 member states must act as one single administration. forty years ago, the customs union was designed to abolish customs duties at internal borders between member states and to bring about the single market. customs offices now work together to protect the external borders of the european union and to take action to combat smuggling, seize dangerous counterfeit goods and other tasks, which, congratulating the commissioner, were also included in the european commission's strategy for the development of the customs union presented in april 2008.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all allow me to express my thanks for the very interesting debate that has just taken place. i have carefully noted the comments made, since they are extremely useful for me and the commission – and the customs services – in taking into account the political priorities expressed by the european parliament. i was very much impressed by the explicit expression of appreciation and support for the work of the customs union; i can assure you that it will continue. what are the guarantees? the guarantees are that we have the instruments, we have the strategy, and we have the legal basis, the modernised community customs code with rules and procedures that guarantee the facilitation of legitimate trade and also the protection of the internal market, the safety, the health and the life of our citizens. we have the id technology in the framework of ecustoms, and we have a very wide cooperation network: cooperation among the customs authorities of the member states, cooperation with other law enforcement agencies, cooperation with business – and referring to the contribution of mr harbour, i should like to say that in frankfurt last week i had the chance to get information on the medifake project, which is about counterfeit medicines, and if any distinction may be drawn between the different kinds of fake products, certainly pharmaceuticals are the most dangerous. i am happy to tell you that just a couple of days ago in the country i know best, in hungary, there was an agreement between the customs authorities and the association of pharmaceutical factories in hungary on how to prevent fake pharmaceuticals from getting onto the market. we also have cooperation with international organisations, with third countries like china, and i must say that, in what are now more than three years of dealing with this portfolio and holding regular meetings with the chinese authorities, i have certainly witnessed some improvement in the chinese attitude. they are more concrete; they are speaking more to the point; they are more cooperative, more constructive. probably the reason is that for them it is more and more a question of political prestige. china, which is playing a more and more important role, not only in world trade but also in world politics, cannot afford to be labelled as the main source, as the main country of origin of those fake products that endanger the safety, the health and even the life of the citizens of other countries. another reason is that, as much evidence has proved, china is becoming more and more a target country and not merely a country of origin. at least two speakers mentioned the 100% scanning initiative of the us congress: i want to tell you that we are really trying to exert pressure on the us administration, and indirectly even on us legislation, because we are absolutely certain – and we keep saying it – that this initiative would result in the disruption of international trade in maritime shipping, it would create a false sense of security and it would just divert attention and resources from the real issues. we hope that finally we will be successful. so with your support, with the support of parliament, with the support of committees like the imco and inta committees which have been very actively supporting the customs union, i am sure that the successful activities of the customs union in the next, fourth year will be guaranteed. thank you very much for your contributions and support.
i have received one draft resolution - see minutes - tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mrs maria panayotopoulos-cassiotou, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european year against poverty and social exclusion (2010) (com (2007) 0797 - c6-0469/2007 - 2007/0278 (cod)) (a6-0173/2008).
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - mr president! - what are you doing? raising the standard of living of the people of the union's member states is at the heart of european integration. however, statistics show that 78 million people in the union are still at risk of poverty, and that the majority of these are children, women and the elderly. this means that, in addition to economic activities, the european union must also take initiatives of a social nature, as the european parliament has repeatedly pointed out. in its resolution of 15 november 2007, parliament stressed that strengthening social cohesion and tackling poverty and social exclusion must become a political priority for the european union. the commission's initiative to designate 2010 as the year for combating poverty and social exclusion fits perfectly into this context and can make a significant contribution to focusing political attention and broad mobilisation on further strengthening social protection and social inclusion. the budget allocated to this initiative eur 17 million is a record high, but the implementation of projects at national level is crucial to the success of this initiative. member states should therefore be encouraged to actively participate in this initiative by allocating adequate human and financial resources.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the council's initiative to designate 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion is a very good one. we need to remind our citizens that poverty eradication is one of the main objectives of the european union. this will certainly increase the public's confidence in our european institutions, and i am thinking particularly of the new member states. in my country, poland, many people still associate accession to the union in 2004 with an increase in poverty, especially among rural and small town residents. this was reflected in the low turnout in the european parliament elections and their outcome. the european year against poverty will be an opportunity to review the situation in this area and to mobilise member states to take concrete action to combat poverty and exclusion. a cursory look at society shows that the living standards of many individuals and families in the old and new union have recently undergone great changes, unfortunately for the worse. for example, housing is becoming increasingly difficult to access. we need new up-to-date statistics on this. in a world that is becoming increasingly global and difficult to control, the state's responsibility towards its citizens should increase. the state should make sure that citizens feel safe, at least to a certain minimum. i think the main benefit of such a european year will be to inform everyone about this existing problem, raise awareness and increase solidarity, including financial solidarity, with the poor and excluded.
mr. chairman, please! the social agenda for 2005-2010 is to be summarised by the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. the social protection committee has adopted a set of common indicators for the social protection and social integration process, which ensures comparability of data. despite the european union's recognition of the problem of poverty and the importance of social cohesion, the economic development of the union's countries is accompanied by the unfolding of income scissors. so the poor get little benefit from this development. in reality, this means a reduction in the level of social cohesion. this phenomenon is accompanied by other phenomena, also dangerous in their effects, as almost one in five children in the european union is at risk of poverty. in the face of demographic decline, we must take special care of children, especially those in large families who are the most vulnerable. however, it is these families who are discriminated against by the particularly high vat on children's products. i congratulate the rapporteur, particularly for drawing attention to the problem of poverty prevention.
mr. chairman, please! the data that we've got is actually trying to kind of reduce the problem that exists. they talk about poverty in the european union before bulgaria and romania joined. the entry of these two relatively very poor countries has led to a significant increase in poverty levels in the union. it's not a good idea to hide it. so it is not that one in seven citizens of the member states of the union is in poverty, but that the percentage is well over sixteen, probably over twenty percent. i would therefore like to make a very strong appeal to the european union to increase the co-financing of all the projects we are discussing to over 50%. this is especially important for poorer countries. so, the half-way limit is really a bet on the half-way limit on the real fight against poverty. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, according to the latest report by the european commission, in 2004, some 100 million people in the union, or 20% of the population, lived on less than 60% of the average income of eu citizens, or less than 15 euros a day. in the new member states, such as poland, lithuania, latvia and slovakia, this affects close to 80% of their population. secondly, the economic and social practice of the countries of the union should not be based on the approach often suggested by liberal economists that substantial income differences are an essential condition for economic growth. the countries with the lowest levels of income stratification, in 2006 they were denmark, sweden, finland, slovenia, the czech republic, have had stable annual gdp growth for many years, unlike the countries with the highest levels of income stratification, such as latvia, lithuania, portugal, greece and unfortunately my country, poland. thirdly, i would like to express the hope that the 2010 year of combating poverty and social exclusion will make all decision-makers aware of the destructive impact of poverty and social exclusion on economic and social development. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! declaring 2010 the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion will not solve the problem of the approximately 80 million people in the european union living below the poverty line. since the committee was formed, the bureaucracy has increased, the meetings and the meetings, the bread will not come. to combat poverty effectively, we need to change the way we produce and distribute goods. it is important to realize that globalization has enabled some to become enormously wealthy and others to become rapidly impoverished. unfortunately, the latter are on the rise. the problem of poverty in the union will increase for several reasons, including, but not limited to, the unequal distribution of earned income, the growing food problem and the high cost of food, the general increase in the cost of living for families, the demographic situation in europe and the world, persistent disparities, historical backlogs between regions, the lack of a proper model for helping those in need. and finally, if we cannot solve the problem of poverty globally, let us at least ensure that children and youth are provided with free education and adequate nutrition.
mr president, commissioner, i want to stress just one aspect and i say it in polish: the panie przewodniczący! the european union is a major player in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. there are very poor people in the region, especially children. i want to highlight a matter which will have consequences in the future, namely the new euro-orphan phenomenon. they are children of migrants who come from one country to another as part of the eu, often staying in their own country. i think that in the future the psychological consequences of this euro-serotism will be very costly. i'm doing everything i can to minimize the phenomenon.
mr. chairman, please! poverty is a very complex problem and can take many forms. it varies from country to country. in europe, it is not people dying of hunger but, above all, low incomes, poor housing, poor health, often alcoholism, alienation and lack of prospects that are the biggest problems. poverty is a dangerous phenomenon, especially among children, because in many cases it is hereditary. children raised in poverty have developmental disabilities and without outside help, they are doomed to fail, sharing the fate of their parents. this is why it is so important to do everything we can to help stop the transmission of poverty between generations. strengthening social inclusion, reducing poverty and combating social exclusion are some of the challenges facing the union, especially in the light of demographic changes, i.e. population ageing and immigration.
, in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank mrs panayotopoulos for a very good report and in particular for the attention she has given to the problem of poverty prevention. i support the designation of 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. in discussing the report i mentioned earlier, i would like to draw attention to the fact that we should look for a way out of poverty through concrete actions, not just words. in europe, 78 million people live in poverty, 19 million of them children. we must remember the importance of the family, which must be protected, supported economically and socially if we are to eliminate the enormous poverty among children in europe. and this is where it's worth mentioning what causes poverty. the problem is the sharp rise in food and energy prices, which mainly affects large families and the elderly. the european commission estimates that about 14% of the polish, greek and portuguese population in permanent employment live in poverty.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work on the report we have before us today. i agree that there is a need for an approach that takes into account the level of the microregions and focuses on intra-regional disparities and the most sensitive areas. in some cases, intra-regional inequalities play an even greater role than inter-regional ones. it should be remembered that the aim and the premise of european regional policy is to reduce the development gap between the various regions of the european union, and the phenomenon of territorial exclusion has not yet been properly taken into account in the policy instruments. in the new member states, social segregation and gaps in equal opportunities are most common in rural areas, while economic and social initiatives in the regions are concentrated in dynamic centres, mainly urban centres. measures to combat poverty and social exclusion vary from country to country, but to create a union that is territorial and socially cohesive, additional action is needed to unlock the potential of economically backward areas.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you, mr. harangozo, for taking up this difficult subject. although this report does not cover all aspects of situations, people and environments that are excluded, displaced or at risk. although a large part of the eu budget is allocated to cohesion policy, there are still serious disparities, for example in gdp per capita: in the richest regions it is almost 10 times higher than in the poorest. it is important to note that there is also considerable variation between regions. in large urban areas, there are also slums. this is particularly evident in many rural areas as well. this poverty is sometimes passed down from generation to generation. so let's protect the children, let's protect the families from this phenomenon. what is needed above all is equal opportunities, especially in education, health care and housing. it will be a testament to the social and territorial cohesion that we are still waiting to see defined. the life prospects of groups living in geographical, communication and civilizational distance are much worse. this is about both the technical and social infrastructure and the jobs and the creation of a climate of inner activity within these communities. let us help our fellow citizens who are discriminated against in one way or another to regain their faith in the possibility of getting out of the social doldrums. we also need to break down the stereotypes, the stigma that still exists for these groups. this is true for a large proportion of the disabled, the homeless and the roma community, as mentioned above. this kind of segregation is a denial of our solidarity and a sign of disrespect for human dignity. we must remember that in these environments we often have to deal with large families and immigrant families. a common policy on equalisation is therefore needed at different levels: eu, national and regional. volunteers and ngos are also needed.
mr. chairman, please! currently, economic development is concentrated around capitals and large urban centres. other regions, including rural areas, are developing much more slowly and this makes them much more vulnerable. the aim of cohesion policy should be to help these areas, to promote territorial cohesion. it is therefore necessary to develop infrastructure, make these areas more attractive to investors, maintain public services, improve housing and living conditions. the creation of transport infrastructure, mainly roads and wastewater treatment plants, is very important for the development of rural areas, as it allows for investment and the creation of new jobs, which in turn allows people to stay and live a decent life. the cap has so far focused mainly on food quality, food security, competitiveness and less on non-agricultural rural development. better coordination between cohesion policy, rural development policy and employment policy is therefore necessary.
mr. chairman, please! article n of the report rightly emphasises that poverty and exclusion are largely territorial in nature. in view of the principle of solidarity, which is generally respected in the european union, and the content of this article, i would like the allocation of european funds to be favourable to the integration of economically weaker areas. unfortunately, in my country this year, this principle has been violated. infrastructure improvements and other relief funds are more likely to go to wealthier, well-developed areas. this is often due to better preparation of those applying for these funds. i hope that the document will help to eliminate these irregularities throughout the european union.
in writing. cohesion policy, which accounts for around 33% of the eu budget, is a priority for all eu countries. poland welcomes all efforts to achieve full economic integration of european society and to minimise disparities at the micro-regional level. i consider cohesion policy action to be a fundamental way of promoting sustainable development and of eliminating unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which are major social and economic problems in europe. cooperation and exchange of experience between all european countries is particularly important here. the problems that hamper the eu's sustainable development, such as low incomes, poor infrastructure and low mobility, are mainly affecting rural areas. the situation is further aggravated by the increasing rural depopulation and the increasing levels of social exclusion in these areas. in addition, the challenges facing european cohesion policy at the dawn of the 21st century also include external issues, such as the widening development gap between the european union and the us. between 1995 and 2005, productivity growth in europe was much lower than in the united states or japan. this has a significant impact on the competitiveness of the european market. i wanted to thank mr. harangozo for bringing these matters to your attention.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank mr schimdt for his very thorough and detailed report. if our development policy is to be truly coherent, we need such detailed reports on the various aspects of development cooperation. of course, cooperation with other committees requires regulation, but if we are to talk about policy coherence, we need to clarify how the various committees of parliament are to cooperate with each other. the analysis of the impact of the european union's exploitation of west africa's natural resources will allow a real, rather than a declaratory, assessment of the european union's role in this region of africa. we should be aware that the way we use natural resources has very specific and sometimes also very painful and complex social consequences. in this context, it is of great concern that fish stocks in west africa are overexploited, which may pose a threat to local development, and that these stocks contribute to food security in the region. it is true that african countries do not often and sufficiently take care of the sustainable use of natural resources. we should therefore also consider our activities in the region from an economic and ethical point of view. i understand that for many politicians it is better to see european fishermen not on the streets of brussels but on the coast of west africa. but we have to be very careful not to fall into hypocrisy, because you can't talk about policy coherence without sustainable fisheries in west africa. nor should we try to export our social problems, because even if we export them, they may come back as migration problems. i also feel that we are using a kind of self-blame to say that other navies could take our place if we withdraw from west africa and the navies of those countries will be even worse off than they are now. that's a dangerous line of thinking, and i don't think we should use that line of reasoning.
mr. chairman, please! in accordance with the arrangements agreed within the european union, most member states are concentrating their aid activities in sub-saharan africa, which also includes west african countries. this is the region with the greatest development needs. poland also supports the european union's development policy objectives and supports the implementation of the millennium development goals in the region. support for developing countries in polish public opinion is growing. last year, it was 77 percent. at the same time, we recognise the need for individual member states to step up their efforts to implement the commitments they have made and to make european development policy more coherent and effective. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. africa, as the area with the largest number of developing countries, has little experience in protecting its own biological resources. on the other hand, europe's access to african mineral resources, which it has with china and the russian federation, is very important. the trade attractiveness of european partners needs to be increased and development aid less dependent on democratic reforms in montenegro. african countries are particularly interested in access to the eu food market. they should be able to do it, more like brazil, the united states or australia. there is therefore a need for greater complementarity, coherence and coordination between the union's and the member states' assistance programmes. the use of natural resources in west africa also requires an effective system for assessing their size and better control of exploitation. thank you, mr. schmidt, for bringing all these issues to our attention.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the problem we are discussing here today was largely caused by the member states of the european union. if you look at the speeches of some of the political parties represented here, you will see that these groups have called in the past for legislation to allow the liberalization of regulations for the influx of people from outside europe. today, too, there are frequent calls for legislation that would harm the traditional family or the christian traditions of europe. we only have to wait a few years to hear in this room the mass appeals and resolutions calling for the rescue of our continent's identity, because what once made europe a model for the world is fading. the proposal in the proposals to establish new return offices is not appropriate. these tasks must be carried out within the framework of existing institutions, which are already developed.
mr president, mr weber truly deserves to be congratulated and thanked for his hard work in dealing with a complex, emotive and sensitive subject. the aim of the returns directive is to bring in basic common standards on how to treat illegal immigrants. special emphasis has been placed on the human rights aspects of this case. we are fully aware that many illegal immigrants are victims twice over. firstly, they are cheated in their home country, often handing over their life savings and more to ensure passage and work in the european union. however, rather than finding a land of plenty, they find themselves modern-day slaves in europe. if caught within the union they are frequently incarcerated, and until this directive comes into force could find themselves detained for long periods of time while their case is dealt with. under the directive, voluntary returns will be encouraged; incarceration will be permissible only in cases where there is a clear threat of the illegal immigrant absconding and in other justified cases. maximum periods of detention are set, legal protection – especially of particularly vulnerable groups – is enhanced and ngos will have access to the much-criticised detention centres, which will open them to greater scrutiny, as well as ensuring additional services and support for the detainees themselves. i have a suggestion to my colleagues who have spoken against this directive: this week after the vote, rather than standing up and explaining to an emptying chamber why they voted against, maybe they would care to explain directly to those illegal immigrants without protection in many states, those detained indefinitely without access to legal assistance. maybe they can tell them that they voted against the directive because they had their best interests at heart.
madam president! in europe, millions of people are illegal, they are tolerated because they are a source of cheap labour, they do not acquire the right to a pension, to health care, they cannot voluntarily assert their rights through the courts. i have no doubt that every human being, regardless of legal status, has the right to dignity and to be treated humanely. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to harmonise the rules on this matter. i have no doubt that all of us in this parliament want to have clear, legible community rules and procedures on returns, on returns, on entry bans for illegal immigrants. we've waited long enough for them. parliament has been working on these solutions for two years. and let us remember that we will wait another two years for the directive to come into force, because that is the period of its implementation in the member states. and while the directive raises my concerns, our concerns about, among other things, immigration detention time, detention of unaccompanied children, or a ban on re-entry into the european union, i want to ask whether illegal immigrants should still be waiting for a uniform immigration policy, including minimum standards? should they be witnessing our discussion showing that europe cannot agree on this matter? i don't think it is.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking mr cass for his excellent report. i want to say that the pse group will support this report. i would also like to stress that this is the first time that a country from central europe, a post-communist country from the former soviet bloc, has joined the euro area. i regard this not only in symbolic terms but also as an important step forward in the progress of european integration. this is a success of monetary union itself, as it will create a dynamic, competitive economy free of public debt, which will certainly contribute to the strengthening of the euro area. secondly, it is also a success for slovakia, which has successfully fulfilled all the criteria for membership and will be able to enjoy the benefits of the single currency. this success is particularly important and needed today, when the result of the defeated referendum in ireland has shaken faith in the future of european integration. slovakia's accession to the euro shows that the process of deepening european integration is moving forward and i believe that even the biggest eurosceptics will not be able to stop it. the accession of slovakia to the club of countries using the single currency is a confirmation that the economic and structural reforms consistently implemented are paying off and are producing positive results. slovakia is today one of the fastest growing countries in the european union. that's what commissioner spidla said. one of the sources of these successes is precisely the reforms, and here we must thank and commend both the government of mikuláš dzurinda, which introduced these difficult reforms, and the current government of robert fico, which continues these reforms. the adoption of the euro by slovakia is also a major challenge. in particular, the slovak government should ensure that the changeover is carried out in an orderly manner, without price increases and in such a way that the slovak people's support for the new currency is sustained for the future. in congratulating my slovak colleagues on this success, i would also like to say - as the polish member - that i hope that my country will soon join them.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw attention to the following points in taking part in this debate on behalf of the uen group. the european commission once again recalls that all the maastricht criteria must be met before new member states join the euro area. at the same time, it is silent about the fact that many of the old member states did not meet these criteria when they adopted the euro. secondly, despite the changes in the stability and growth pact that have benefited countries such as germany and france, the commission's conciliatory attitude towards the largest euro area countries in respect of the maastricht criteria has not changed. the commission has tolerated in the past, and seems to continue to tolerate, both significant budget deficits and, in particular, a public debt exceeding 60% of gdp. the public debt of the 15 countries averaged 63% of gdp in 2006, and as many as half of the euro area countries had a public debt above 60%. in this context, slovakia's achievements in terms of a deficit of 2,2% and a public debt of only 29% and inflation of 2,2% deserve special mention. the entry of slovakia into the euro area will be an important experience for the new member states. all of them have relatively low per capita gdp, a high income disparity, low levels of wealth and relatively low general price levels. the impact of the euro on slovakia, especially on... (the president read out the minutes)
mr. chairman, please! the new waste directive is intended to lay the foundations for a recycling society in europe. the member states are to be given very ambitious targets. but are the objectives we want to set for ourselves not too ambitious and will member states, especially new ones, be able to cope with the stringent requirements? it is worth noting that the old member states of the union have had much more time to adapt their waste management systems to the strict requirements, while the new member states are forced to implement legal mechanisms and build the necessary infrastructure much more quickly. the proposal for a new waste directive is highly controversial in many european countries. i think it is therefore not surprising that it has been so difficult to reach a compromise with the council. many meps said during yesterday's debate that they were not happy with the compromise on the directive. however, i am afraid that introducing even stricter requirements could cause problems with the implementation of the new law. the new waste directive will force countries that have neglected municipal waste management to take decisive action. these countries will need to put in place legal and economic mechanisms to stimulate rather than burden the economy. the new directive should stimulate the development of new technologies for job creation. that is why i voted for the report.
mr. chairman, please! we have adopted a very important report on the problems of combating poverty and social exclusion. the above-mentioned document is an example of the european union's social sensitivity and of the creation of a european social model that we are building alongside our efforts to promote greater economic growth and an efficient market economy. it is important that so much attention is given to tackling the exclusion and poverty of children, the elderly and the disabled, those who are not able to prevent it themselves. we should remember that poverty is increasing in areas that have been hit by natural disasters or other situations that we are currently seeing, such as the significant increase in food and energy prices. in this context, additional measures are needed to limit the impact of these adverse factors on the income situation of the poorest social and occupational groups.
mr. chairman, please! i abstained on the report by mr harangozo. one of the objectives of the european union's cohesion policy should be to strengthen the instruments of solidarity and integration. vulnerable groups and communities should receive our support in the fight against exclusion and inequality. however, this should not be seen as the antithesis of metropolitan development, as they are not mutually exclusive. the territorial approach is important, but it does not negate the importance of efficiency in cohesion policy.
mr. chairman, please! the report adopted today by mr harangozó tackles the crucial issue of the impact of cohesion policy on the integration of the most vulnerable communities and groups. this report clearly underlines the need to continue cohesion policy in less developed, neglected, difficult-to-manage areas and areas with weak or outdated infrastructure. particular support should be given to regions, those areas where we have historical development delays, where the population is less prepared to take on the difficult challenges of a market economy. the interregional differences in development levels are very large. it is therefore necessary to create a real picture of the state of development of our regions and, on this basis, to address the difficult areas within each region. already, this is true of the mountainous areas and much of the rural areas. we must create a sustainable development so that new, underdeveloped or backward enclaves do not remain or arise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the legal protection of computer programs (rapporteur lidia geringer de oedenberg), because i believe that, as they play a huge role in the functioning of modern society, they should be afforded appropriate legal protection, granted in accordance with the provisions of copyright law, just like literary and artistic works within the meaning of the berne convention. only computer programs expressed in the correct form should be protected. the concepts and principles on which the individual elements of a computer program are based may not themselves be subject to such protection. of course, mathematical procedures, programming languages or algorithms cannot be protected in this way. such protection should be granted to both natural and legal persons in accordance with national copyright legislation. it should be noted that if the scheme has been drawn up by employees in the course of their duties, the employer or the contractor is entitled to exercise the property rights arising from the scheme (unless otherwise agreed in the contract).
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i agree with the rapporteur that in some countries, especially those just moving away from landfilling, energy from waste can be dominant and discourage investment in other processes such as recycling or reuse. poland currently recycles the least amount of waste in the eu, at only 4%. in lesser poland, 7% of waste is recycled. at the same time, plans are being made to build a waste incineration plant with a capacity of 250,000 tons of waste per year, more than the city produces annually. for the incinerator to be effective, it must be properly stocked. in this way, the project financed by the european commission will destroy any fervor for segregation, because everything will be able to be burned. it is estimated that tens of thousands of tons of illegally imported municipal waste, foil, scrap, used tires, batteries, etc., are regularly brought into poland. on a selected southern stretch of our western border, as many as 16 shipments of 40 tons of waste have been intercepted since january. some border communities have had to increase their waste disposal budgets by 30%. i urge you to take concrete steps to end these practices as soon as possible. regulations on sorting and recycling are useless if it is cheaper for companies to dump their waste in the fields of a neighbouring country.
in writing. - i support the caroline jackson report because the new waste directive is intended to provide the basis for a 'universal recycling society'. europe has very ambitious goals. but are they not too ambitious and will member states, especially new member states, be able to cope with the stringent requirements? i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the new countries of the union are already having problems meeting community standards for the management of municipal waste. it is worth noting that the 'old' member states had much more time to adapt their waste management systems to the strict requirements. new countries, on the other hand, are forced to implement legal mechanisms and build the necessary infrastructure much more quickly. the proposal for a new directive is highly controversial in many countries, as its implementation will have significant economic consequences. i think it is therefore not surprising that it has been so difficult to reach a compromise with the council. many meps said during yesterday's debate that they were not happy with the compromise on the directive. however, i am afraid that introducing even stricter requirements could cause problems with the implementation of this law. the new waste directive will force countries that have neglected municipal waste management to take decisive action. these countries will need to put in place legal and economic mechanisms to stimulate rather than burden the economy. the new directive should stimulate the development of new technologies and job creation.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum level of training of seafarers (com (2007) 0610 c6-0348/2007 2007/0219 cod). the adaptation of the provisions of the directive on the minimum level of education of seafarers, which is the subject of the report by mr rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, seems to be appropriate and appropriate. it will allow the provisions of the directive to be more fully implemented, which aims to increase the knowledge and skills of seafarers and to increase the guarantees of safety and prevention of marine pollution.
in writing. - do we all realise the importance of poverty and social exclusion? do we know that in 2006 16% (78 million) of the population of the eu-25 lived below the poverty line? i am in favour of declaring 2010 the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. it is our moral duty to raise public awareness of this issue. the european year should raise public awareness of the existence of poverty and social exclusion in europe and convey the message that they have a destructive impact on social and economic development. it should reaffirm the importance of collective responsibility, involving not only decision-makers but also public and private sector actors. our task is to achieve sustainable economic growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion by 2010. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou.
in writing. - slovakia is the first country from the former communist bloc to want to join the euro area on 1 january 2009. the slovak economy, which is growing rapidly, fulfils the convergence criteria set out in the maastricht treaty. the slovak economy is still in a state of transition, with a high rate of growth in the second half of the year, and the slovak economy is still in a state of recession. the slovak authorities have also been able to increase the number of newly created enterprises in the slovak economy. however, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out in his speech, rising inflation is not just a problem for slovaks, but for the whole of the european union, including the euro area. the slovak authorities have also taken steps to ensure that the economic and social cohesion of the slovak republic is maintained. the experience slovakia will have in introducing the single currency will undoubtedly be an excellent preparation for poland. we need to keep a close eye on our neighbors to the south. as the rapporteur notes, the adoption of the euro does not have much support in slovak society. i hope that the slovak accession to the euro will be preceded by an information campaign that will convince and, above all, properly prepare the slovaks for the changeover.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by mr david casa on the adoption of the single currency by slovakia on 1 january 2009. the rapporteur has given a very good and reliable report. we must agree that the creation of the euro area is a success in the process of deepening european integration, and that further enlargement of the area is therefore necessary, and that it is therefore gratifying that another country will soon join this group. i would also point out that any enlargement of the euro area should ensure that there is public support for this european project and that it is aimed at strengthening the common european economic policy.
, in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i agree with the rapporteur that there are significant disparities within regions and that the analyses underlying the allocation of eu money should take this into account. it is clearly visible in the new member states. for example, in poland, the most serious social divide affecting poles is the widening wealth gap. in my country today, 12 percent of the population lives in extreme poverty. the biggest differences are still between the city and the countryside. in lesser poland, despite being the 4th largest country in terms of gdp, the problem of unemployment exists it mainly affects the rural population. in the neighbouring province of świętokrzyskie, 55.5% of the unemployed are rural residents (88% of them are unemployed without entitlement to benefits). the continuation of such situations reduces the chances of these people overcoming the 'social exclusion' so widely discussed during the current ep session.
in writing. - i vote for the report by mr gábor harangozó on the impact of cohesion policy on the integration of the most vulnerable communities and groups. i agree that there is a need for an approach that takes into account the level of the microregions and focuses on intra-regional disparities and the most sensitive areas. in some cases, intra-regional inequalities are more important than inter-regional ones. the absence of such an approach could lead to a deepening of regional divisions and a further deterioration of the situation in excluded areas. it should be remembered that the aim and the premise of european regional policy is to reduce the development gap between the various regions of the european union, and the phenomenon of territorial exclusion has not yet been properly taken into account in the policy instruments. in the new member states, social segregation and gaps in equal opportunities are most common in rural areas, while economic and social initiatives in the regions tend to be concentrated in dynamic centres - mainly urban centres.
in writing. − in the eu's policy towards west africa, coherence is essential between the development policy towards these regions and the fisheries policy in the area and the level of exploitation of wood resources, which is linked to the forestry of the area and its impact on climate change. the union's fisheries policy towards african countries needs to be strengthened and further extended. as the waters of west africa are among the most exploited marine areas and some species are overfished, the european union should help develop and implement specific monitoring and control programmes for these waters. the exchange of knowledge and experience in this area is of great importance, especially as regards scientific research on water resources. the eu and west african countries should make it a priority to reduce illegal fishing and prevent overfishing. remember, many people make a living from fishing. fewer fish means more poverty and food insecurity in this region of the world. the misuse of forest resources is contributing to climate change. we should take action to prepare these countries to deal with climate change. we have to be aware that the difficult financial situation of this region is causing these actions and not others. it is therefore necessary to help them to create the conditions for development that will create new production lines and new forms of activity that will improve living standards.
in writing. - having regard to the report of mr frithjof schmidt on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the convention on the conservation of wild fauna and flora and natural habitats ('the convention'), in the european consensus on development policy of december 2005, the institutions of the european community and the member states jointly declared the objective of ensuring policy coherence for development. wood and fish are two key products of west africa's economic and social development. the european union, as the main recipient of these products, can play an important role in the development of the west african region in these areas. i am pleased that seven west african countries have signed fisheries agreements with the european union in the form of new partnership agreements which, in addition to the original objectives of protecting the interests of the community fleet, include provisions requiring third countries to develop plans to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by eluned morgan, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/54/ec on common rules for the internal market in electricity (com (2007) 0528 - c6-0316/2007 - 2007/0195 (cod)) (a6-0191/2008) and the report by alejo vidala-quadrasa, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1228/2003 on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity (com (2007) 0531 - c6-020/2007 - 2007/0198 (cod)) and the report by alejo vidala-quadrasa on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation (ec) no 1228/2003 on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchanges in electricity (com (2007) 0531 - c6-0207 (cod)) on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 2007/522/2008 on the european parliament and council regulation (ec) no 2007/522/2008 on the internal market in electricity (com (2007) 05228 - c6-02060) and the report by the committee on the internal energy market and consumer rights of the european parliament and the council on the regulation (com (2007) 05228-06-0228 final) and the regulation (a8-06-022/2008 - 2007/06-06-06-06-06-06
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president! - what are you doing? the benefits of the adopted energy package will depend to a large extent on political decisions. only the leaders of france have made the energy and the economy largely independent of imported gas and oil. others lacked imagination. the unforeseen, rapid rise in gas and oil prices is forcing us to determine the extent to which we can develop nuclear and other sources of energy. how can we use the network to reduce the crisis? the proposed rules on access to the network for crossborder exchanges of electricity and the common rules on the internal energy market should promote full synchronisation of the networks of the old and new european countries. this will ensure greater security of energy supply and may help to reduce energy prices by increasing competition. the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, established in cooperation with market operators, should ensure its operational functioning. its powers should be increased as the market demands. i support regulations that promote competition and energy development.
i congratulate you on a report that addresses the most important consumer and political issues on our continent. the separation of distribution from generation and trade is of key importance for consumers and industry. where the chapter is introduced, energy prices fall or rise more slowly. in the countries where the breakdown was carried out, the average increase in household energy prices between 1998 and 2006 was 3%. where they didn't, energy prices went up 28%. similar trends are seen in the industrial customers market. but energy is also security of supply, and so it's politics. the russian state monopoly has growing investments in 16 countries of the union. in germany, france and italy, gasprom even has access to individual consumers. this is a sufficient reason to enforce the principle of reciprocity in trade relations with third countries. otherwise, we'll be defenseless, and we'll pay for it with our own safety.
madam president! i congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteurs on their excellent reports and on the good preparation of directives which can unify the european energy market. long-term investment, the principle of solidarity, market access, crossborder flows are all important objectives of these regulations. let us remember that the consumer is the most important thing in the end and that is what all these regulations are for protecting consumers, the interests of users, energy in the european union. let us also remember that our regulations will not solve all the problems, such as the increase in oil prices, or they will not prevent the increase in energy prices due to the introduction of the cost of co2 emissions, but they will greatly simplify and support our actions for energy users. let's just say, we're aware that the solution in ms. morgan's report is unlikely to be final. we have therefore a very good basis for discussing the final solution with the council. this final solution, as far as electricity is concerned, should be somewhat distant from the solutions in the second package, otherwise the introduction of the third package would not make sense. at the same time, the gas solutions should be similar to the electricity solutions, but they do not have to be identical. today, the direction is clear that the ownership structure for the energy market will be stronger and more far-reaching than for gas. we should accept and respect that. this point is also very important third party market access, third country access. that is why it is also crucial not to favour those who invest outside the european union. i just wanted to say, in closing, that this was one of the most difficult discussions we've had, conducted very substantially and with respect for everyone.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's position on the european charter of energy consumers' rights, and in particular the proposal to charge consumers on the basis of their actual energy consumption. i hope that this will lead to billing for all individual gas customers in kwh and not, as in poland, in cubic metres. the bill for energy value, not for the volume of gas consumed, will certainly be approved by consumers who suspect, justified or not, that they are paying for 'air'.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the development of events means that the european union's energy priorities - environmental protection, security and market liberalisation - remain valid, but their hierarchy needs to be reassessed. the spiral of energy prices, social tensions and fears, and the gazprom offensive - all of this forces rapid reactions and exposes the need for security and low-cost supplies. on the other hand, the ambitious goals set for environmental protection and the fight against climate change are long-term and present challenges that can reduce the competitiveness of the european economy and increase social tensions. it is regrettable that the 27 countries do not have the determination to create a common, competitive energy market. the demopolization is being resisted by a number of countries which are already among the leaders of european integration. there is also a lack of solidarity in dealing with external oil and gas suppliers. bilateral agreements, such as those concluded in the west and east of the european union with gazprom, weaken our bargaining position. they facilitate energy blackmail against those member countries which have historically been linked to a monopolistic supplier. different national interests are reflected in the construction of the single energy market. the european union needs to show that it can reach satisfactory compromises despite differences. there is no field more important than energy, where the ability to build unity over division should be demonstrated!
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. access to affordable energy is one of the elements that accelerate social integration, access to knowledge and education. energy supply has a significant impact on the functioning of citizens' social and economic life. unfortunately, consumers, and in particular individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises, often have limited opportunities to represent their interests in energy access effectively. according to the available data, member states have not fulfilled their obligation to provide targeted public services reaching the least privileged groups in society satisfactorily. the european charter of energy consumer rights should address some of the existing problems in this area. the charter is to be based on the idea of cooperation between member states, with full application of the principle of subsidiarity, taking into account the fact that certain consumer protection practices may have different effects in different member states. energy suppliers and network operators should commit to operating in an environmentally sound manner, reducing as far as possible the generation of radioactive waste. the use of renewable energy sources and the right of consumers to make an informed choice of energy source should also be a priority. it is also necessary to reduce formalities for switching suppliers, protect consumers from unfair sales practices and establish consumer organisations. however, the priority is to address energy poverty in order to enable all citizens to participate in many important areas of life.
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner for her very comprehensive answer to the question. i'm interested in a few problems. the first is the trade in sugar production limits. it is known that trade in sugar products limits the use of certain production capacities in different countries and here the companies impose certain policies in this respect. if you limit sugar production, there is no competition. secondly, a number of basic products used by the poorest, such as bananas, are subject to customs duties. you should look at this joint. bananas eat children, they eat children of poor families. the setting of duties on such basic items of non-alcoholic beverages would also need to be reviewed. i agree that the market must be monitored and controlled and market prices must be monitored, but does the commission use imports to lower the prices of certain items by importing cheaper items to the domestic market which have ... (the president read out the minutes)
i'm not going to let you down. i would like to ask whether the commission intends to consider reducing vat on children's clothing, which will reduce the tax burden on large families, not on wealthy families?
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i will therefore reply to mr armando frança. the current work programme of frontex for 2008 includes several pilot projects and training in the fields of operational cooperation and research. as this question on external border control falls within the competence of frontex, the commission has obtained from the agency detailed response elements which are set out in the annex. in the field of training, frontex has three objectives for 2008. first, to implement the common curriculum across the european union; secondly, to offer one-off training measures according to operational needs, and finally, to establish a european network for the training of border guards. in 2008, frontex plans to carry out some 13 pilot projects at the external borders: four pilot projects at land borders, three at sea borders, three at air borders and three in the context of return operations. these projects will test working methods used during joint operations and test relations with third countries for return operations and the acquisition of travel documents. as regards the deployment of rabit 'rapid intervention teams at the border', mr president, at the moment no state has asked for the deployment of a rapid intervention team. in the communication of 13 february, the commission stressed that the deployment of a rapid border intervention team may be accompanied by technical assistance, in accordance with article 8 of the frontex regulation. the commission therefore recommended that the agency should make this provision more operational by purchasing or leasing its own equipment or by being able to use equipment listed in the central inventory of technical equipment. in conclusion, i would say that we now have a tool with frontex which seems to us to be working and we will be looking at what improvements can be made to frontex and the operations for which frontex is responsible.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, in order for frontex to provide technical assistance in a third country, its regulations will have to be adapted to this end. at the moment, there is no legal basis. but i think it is very desirable because we are going to receive requests from third countries with whom we are working. you are referring to certain mediterranean countries; i think frontex will be asked to provide any technical assistance it can, but we are not there yet. as for the rest, as far as border surveillance is concerned, we have, as you know, the sis system which is being developed and we hope that this will make it possible to intervene in autumn 2009. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed.
because frontex is in poland, and i'm polish, i have this personal relationship with frontex. there's a lot of unverified opinions about frontex, that sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. i'll add that it's the agency with the largest budget. in two words, could you say whether frontex is working and has met its expectations, or whether there is still much work to be done to improve its performance?
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the political group of the union for a europe of nations, i fully support the motion for a resolution tabled. i fully support the proposals contained in the draft resolution. a very important matter has been raised in this document. in our debates on the situation in agriculture, but also in international trade, we have repeatedly advocated respect for the principle that the requirements must be the same for producers in the european union and for those who export their products to the european market. this principle is not generally respected, and in particular it is not respected in the area of agricultural production. we must firmly remind ourselves to respect this principle. we cannot continue with a practice whereby different standards are required of producers in the european union and different standards are required of those who export their products to the european market. the situation in the poultry sector in many eu countries is very difficult. it's also difficult in my country, poland. i've had the opportunity to have many discussions about this myself. poultry organisations have pointed out that the conditions of competition are uneven, that the european market is exposed to unequal competition compared to other countries in the world. i am glad that this initiative has been taken, because it is precisely in this direction that it is going, that the rules of competition are equal, because this is what basic justice requires. that is why i support the motion for a resolution.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in taking part in the debate on the import of poultry into the european union market, i would like to draw attention to three points. first, agricultural products produced in the european union must meet very high ecological, sanitary and health standards, which significantly increase production costs and thus make european agricultural products less competitive on world markets. secondly, in this situation the european commission's proposals to amend the regulations to allow the import of chlorine-free poultrymeat from the united states should be considered as an absolutely unacceptable proposal, especially for european consumers. thirdly, it should be noted that the european commission's proposal on this matter was intended as a gesture by the union to ensure a good atmosphere for talks and to warm up contacts before the june eu-us summit. i am in favour of a warming of relations, but i would like to see it not at the expense of the health of many people in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in april i sent a written question to the commissioner in which i strongly opposed the european commission's plan to allow chemically disinfected chickens from the usa to be placed on the market in the european union. fortunately, this proposal was opposed by the member states. i'm not going to let you down. our farmers and processors are held to standards that are among the most stringent in the world. they care about the environment, animal welfare, preserving biodiversity. adhering to these standards increases costs and weakens their competitive position. that is why i am surprised by the commission's proposal. the american way of producing chicken does not meet these standards. the european consumer does not want to see such food on his plate. if we want to ensure the safety of our eu consumers, we cannot allow the import of food of poor quality.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to thank mr ferrari first of all and congratulate him on this report. the fact that this report has been the subject of a wide-ranging compromise shows that this is one of the things of which the european parliament can be proud. we're talking about things that can actually bring people relief. we're talking about statistics here. how misleading the statistics are. it's not just the more than a thousand lives lost every year, which are killed in all kinds of accidents. it is also the loss of thousands of lives that are harmed in these types of accidents involving pedestrians and cyclists. we are obviously making small steps forward with our regulations, and we must always remember that this report does not yet settle the whole issue. of course, we have to have the instruments, we have to have the instruments for the traffic laws, the instruments for the speed limits, the instruments for the traffic lanes, so that it is as safe as possible. but i want to make it very clear that mr ferrari's report is not only a step in the right direction, but also a very important achievement that we will be able to present in our member states, we will be able to present to our electorate as something concrete that the european parliament is leaning towards and where it is making a positive change in reality for the people. i understand, of course, and i can share the arguments about industry, about burdens, but let us remember that our european union is such a large organism that we should set a standard, a standard that we balance economically with the size of the market, with the fact that this market is so absorbent and so large. finally, i want to make it clear that the issue of pedestrian and cyclist protection is not limited to urban areas. in many countries, such as poland, this also applies to rural areas, where many people travel in this way every day in roadside areas. here too, mr ferrari's report is a very good one, another step forward on our road.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 june 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by mr józsef szájer on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council adapting certain acts subject to the procedure referred to in article 251 of the treaty to council decision 1999/468/ec as amended by decision 2006/512/ec, in the context of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny adaptation to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny part one (com ((0741/2007) c6-0432/2007 2007/0262 ((cod)) (a6-0088/2008), and the report drawn up by mr józsef szájer on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council adapting council decision 1999/468/ec as amended by decision 2006/512/ec to certain acts subject to the procedure referred to in article 251 of the treaty to the procedure referred to in article 251 of the treaty to regulation (com ((0472/2008)) part three (com (0822/01 (cod)) adaptation to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny) part three (com (a6-0028/06) part two)
mr. chairman, please! the involvement of the european parliament in committee procedures is necessary in view of the development of its legislative powers, in particular in the context of the codecision procedure provided for in article 251 of the treaty. this is the aim of the council decision of 17 july 2006 and article 5a introducing a new procedure whereby parliament will decide jointly with the council on the admissibility of proposals for certain implementing measures. the new procedure, known as the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, will cover measures of general scope designed to amend non-essential elements of a basic act adopted under the codecision procedure. the council's decision is revolutionary for the legislative process, as it will allow parliament to veto the commission's proposal for implementing measures. as a result, it will be possible to modify the proposal or return to the legislative path. it is essential that the adjustment package is adopted as soon as possible to allow the new procedure to be applied immediately to binding legislation. i therefore propose that the commission's proposal, which includes a list of legal acts to be adapted to the new procedure, together with the amendments proposed by parliament's competent committees, be adopted in the forthcoming vote. at the same time, i would point out that the way in which parliament makes use of the opportunities it has to offer will be crucial to the success of the current reform of comitology. the requirement of an absolute majority to reject the commission's proposal for implementing measures or the lengthening of the procedure, for example by the need to translate documents into 23 eu languages, may have a negative impact on the procedure. it should also be borne in mind that parliament may come under increased pressure from various circles interested in influencing the final shape of implementing measures. the additional challenge, both in terms of substance and organisation, will also be to take account of the huge number of implementing acts that will be submitted to parliament in the future.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 june 2008.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional development by mr gerard galeote on the proposal for a council regulation opening autonomous community tariff quotas for the transport of certain fishery products to the canary islands and providing for the administration of those quotas (com (2008) 0129 c6-0153/2008 2008/0054 cns)) (a6-0213/2008)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 june 2008.
mr. chairman, please! it is a very nervous debate, but i would recommend caution, utmost caution in the statements we make after the irish referendum. the attempts to corner ireland, the demands to exclude ireland from the union, as unfortunately happened to the usually overzealous martin schulz, are much more damaging to europe than the result of the referendum itself. it is the paternalism of brussels that is at the heart of irish irritation. it is not true that europe is not doing well because of the lack of a new treaty. europe is not doing well because of differences of interest, because of selfishness of the member states, and it's not ireland's business. the weakness in foreign affairs is a matter for germany, for example, who wants to win good relations with moscow at the expense of the central european countries. it is also a matter of france, which turns a blind eye to the neo-imperial russian policy in the region, with a mouth full of phrases about the european avant-garde with polish participation. don't hide your own weaknesses behind the treaty. don't hide your own weakness behind the irish decision. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about the preparations for the european summit. i am of course of the opinion that all the member states who have spoken are right from the point of view of some group, larger or smaller, of europeans. but it's worth realizing that if this discussion had been held a week ago, on a wednesday, it would have been a very different discussion. we would not be talking about the lisbon treaty problem at all, but rather about the everyday problems of europeans. today in the european union, our citizens don't care too much that the irish rejected the treaty. they are much more concerned about the price of gasoline at gas stations and other problems that they face every day. this is the dramatic challenge that we face today. it would be wrong if the only thing we could say today and what the outcome of the summit could be was a discussion on the treaty of lisbon. we must realise that we have two issues of the utmost importance for us politicians today: how to meet the daily expectations of citizens, and on the other hand the treaty of lisbon and its implementation, because it will determine how we manage to solve the problems of europeans in the future. and that is why we must try to separate these issues and talk not only about the lisbon treaty, but also about the issues that are of interest to our citizens today. we need to explain to them why adopting the treaty, putting it into effect will make it easier to solve the everyday problems of our citizens. we need to explain why the institutional solutions that we are proposing are good for the european union, because they lead to more solidarity, more caring for each other and more respect for what we represent in each of our countries.
mr. chairman, please! i have the impression that the lisbon agreements are not going to work. both the lisbon strategy and the lisbon treaty have failed. last week, ireland rejected the lisbon treaty in a referendum, which means that the document is dead. the next council meeting will decide whether to resuscitate him. the european parliament should send a clear signal that we accept the rules of democracy, even though some may not like it. the insult and blackmail of the irish people is unacceptable. one form of extrajudicial pressure would be to continue the ratification of the treaty in other countries. the extreme and irresponsible views suggesting that an unruly country could be thrown out of the union are a cause for concern. we expect the european council to consider a new, more democratic form of european union.
mr. chairman, please! i have no doubt that the process of ratifying the treaty of lisbon must continue. for the countries that have signed this document, this is an international legal obligation under the vienna convention on the law of treaties. this treaty offers the opportunity for the necessary reform of the union. it makes it possible, for example, to establish a common energy policy in europe. this policy is very important for the union, for my country, poland, too. it guarantees energy security for poles, and my region, which is rich in energy resources, including coal, almost five million silesia, gives a chance for development and progress. so i ask, is the irish "i" to destroy it? i respect the result of the referendum in ireland, but at the same time i have doubts whether the 109,964 votes of the irish people, because that is the majority of the "me" votes over the "yes" votes, can decide the future of my country, my region and almost the entire european union? i don't think it is.
in writing. today we are debating the future of the european union. we are doing this out of the excitement of the irish referendum. i would ask all of you, both members of the european parliament and representatives of the commission and the council, to stop preaching to the irish and threatening them with reprisals of one kind or another, including expulsion from the community. the fact is that the union exists and the voice of the irish people is not a voice of opposition to the union. i believe that this is a contradiction to the document called the lisbon treaty. the irish people have rejected this very version of reform that has been proposed to them. it is very likely that if people in other countries were asked the same question in a referendum, their answer would be the same. the treaty is not readable even by an educated citizen of the european union. it is also worth considering whether this is not a positive, encouraging signal forcing the so-called elites to bridge the great gap that is currently being created between the citizens of the member states and the leadership of political groups, both at national and eu level. it is clear from the actual provision of international law that if even one of the countries party to that agreement does not accept the international agreement, that form of agreement is not valid. it's obvious and independent of what we think about the whole document. the irish have made a free choice. let us respect the will of the irish people and seek positive solutions for the future of europe. after all, "vox is for the people".
in writing. the irish decision has put europe in a difficult position. it is also proof that democracy is the living foundation of europe. the fate of the lisbon treaty is not predetermined. we've had similar situations in the past. in 1993, after denmark voted against ratifying the eu treaty, it decided to hold a second referendum. similarly, the irish, after losing the vote on the treaty of nice in 2001, decided to hold a second referendum. i have no doubt that once again the irish people's vote must be respected as their sovereign decision. the union is founded on respect for the right of all member states to express their will. it should be made clear that the rejection of the treaty does not mean that the irish are against the union. the forthcoming european council is an opportunity to reflect on the causes and consequences of the current situation. this reflection cannot be limited to teaching or criticizing ireland. the council, parliament and the commission should consider what can be done to make the treaty and the intentions of the elites better understood by europeans. i'm not in favor of reopening negotiations on treaty reform. europe should not become a multi-speed europe either. europe must prove to its own citizens that it is a project of common interest and solidarity. i believe that the council will find a solution that is acceptable to the countries that have already ratified the treaty, to ireland and to those members who are wondering what to do.
in writing. the outcome of the irish referendum has shaken the process of ratifying the reform treaty. the referendum has shown how much care we must take of our great european project, a europe of peace, solidarity, and the well-being of its citizens and the strength of the continent in the global economic and political game. we have evidence of the high price we pay for our failure to engage with communities, to explain the importance of inclusion. the ratification process should continue and i believe ireland will be looking very hard for a solution. i agree with the position of the president of the pse group, martin schulz, that the way the european commission and the european council work is one of the reasons for this state of affairs. more powers for the european parliament as a democratic institution could be very important for the improvement of the union, without big declarations and programmes that do not reach the minds and hearts of citizens.
in writing. the rejection of the lisbon treaty by irish society is destroying the prospect of rapid institutional reform of the european union. this is the second time you've wasted your chance. earlier, the failure of the reform was decided by the negative result of the referendum in france and the netherlands. i believe that the irish are certainly not to blame. the fact that they said 'no' to the treaty does not mean that they have a negative attitude towards the european union as a whole. the treaty was rejected in ireland because of the wrong approach of the european institutions and the governments of the member states to the question of ratification of the treaty and the involvement of citizens in the process. i am afraid that if a referendum were held in all the member states, it would not be ireland alone that would say 'no'. the citizens' attitude towards the treaty is not due to their ill will, but to a lack of information. the steps the union will now take on the future of the lisbon treaty must be similar to those taken after the rejection of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe by the netherlands and france. fortunately, under the treaty of nice and the other treaties in force, the european union is able to function efficiently, and this gives us time to calmly rectify the mistakes we have made.
in writing. in the light of the irish decision expressed in the last referendum, the finalization of poland's ratification of the lisbon treaty becomes even more important. if the president of the country, using the argument of the last signature, does not complete the ratification process, he will put our country on the side of the opponents of the treaty and in opposition to the vast majority of countries that have accepted the treaty. it's not gonna pay off. we've already played the threat mechanism, and some even blackmail, but we've agreed to compromise. if we said 'a', we should say 'b', especially in the face of the irish referendum. poland has a chance to play a part in the important game for a strong europe. the swift ratification of the treaty will not be a routine act but a significant political gesture. it is clear to me that sooner or later, with or without ireland, what is at the heart of the treaty will be put into effect. it's about being on the right side at the right time.
in writing. today, the nations of europe, who want freedom and sovereignty, thank the irish people. from little ireland came the voice of freedom and hope! this vote should be a wake-up call to the enemies of democracy who disregard the will of the people and break the rules of the game! you're asking what to do next? instead of dreaming of a utopia of euro-supremacy, it is time to start a debate on the rights of nations. let us first establish the charter of the rights of nations to lay down the principles of european integration. ladies and gentlemen, the architects of the european union! beware of the manipulation! let the people decide their future by giving them the truth! let the nations live in their sovereign states, and let them decide how and with whom to cooperate and integrate!
i'd like to inform you that the colleagues on the left of the room are holding banners. this morning we were informed that holding banners on the right side of the room is against procedure.
the chairman of the council. − let me take this opportunity to express my satisfaction on behalf of the council at the good results of the long and extensive work on this technical dossier. this dossier was completed mainly thanks to the creative cooperation of all three institutions, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr józsef szájer, for his cooperation and the work he has done. now that this part of the adjustment process is complete, both legislative branches, in particular the european parliament, will be able to exercise scrutiny over the commission's executive powers in a number of important legislative acts. finally, i would like to see this kind of cooperation continue during the next french presidency.
the chairman of the council. − the presidency wishes to confirm, on behalf of the council, the approval of the amendments to the statute of the ombudsman which are the subject of the vote in this esteemed chamber. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament and the european commission for their creative cooperation. on the basis of this constructive cooperation, we reached an agreement on the amendment of the statutes in a relatively short time. on behalf of the council, i would also like to express my special thanks to the rapporteur, mrs jäätteenmäki, to mr leinen, chairman of the afco committee, and to mr méndez de vigo, member of the european parliament. the council welcomes this important achievement. we believe that the changes to the statute will increase citizens' confidence in the good functioning of the european institutions and the european union as a whole.
mr. chairman, please! in today's vote, i voted for commissioner barrot. the commissioner has committed himself to tough negotiations with the united states on visa-free travel for citizens of all eu countries. in addition, the commissioner's proposals for a solidarity approach to the problems of asylum seekers, and in particular for assistance to countries which, like poland, protect the external borders of the schengen area, have convinced me that commissioner barrot has a perfect understanding of the problems of the justice, freedom and security directorate.
mr. chairman, please! the common market means more competition and, consequently, higher standards. they require market participants to make the appropriate investments and improve the capacity of transmission networks. this in turn improves security of supply and avoids disruptions to the energy supply. the creation of a common energy market is very important, because we are seeing a continuous increase in energy demand. this is an important step forward, but it is still not enough to ensure europe's energy security. we must build a common energy policy in a spirit of solidarity. it is necessary to develop appropriate mechanisms to allow member states to assist each other in the event of energy crises. but even more importantly, europe must finally start to speak with one voice in its external energy policy. only a coherent, effective and, above all, common policy will guarantee our energy security.
in writing. − the european parliament has taken a key decision towards a common electricity market by advocating mandatory ownership of energy companies in the european union. only the division of the companies in the sector into companies responsible for the production and transmission of energy guarantees the creation of a competitive and open market, from which conflicts of interest will disappear. the consumer is the main beneficiary of the proposed names. the proposal voted on significantly strengthens the rights of consumers, giving them, among other things, the right to withdraw from an electricity supplier contract without additional charges or the right to change energy supplier within a short time. let us not forget that the electricity market is currently dominated by monopolies that exploit their position in non-competitive markets. i believe that price limits will protect consumers from abuse by energy companies, while not discouraging new entrants to the market. of course, the solutions proposed will not solve all the energy problems we are facing today, such as rising oil prices, but they are the right move towards a more competitive market. the discussion will continue in the council. unfortunately, it is unlikely that all the european parliament's proposals will be upheld. as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, many member states protect the interests of national groups.
in writing. - the rapporteur has prepared a very thorough and reliable report. i believe that the european parliament's proposal in this form will allow the work to continue on the integration of the eu energy market. i hope that we can reach an agreement on all cross-border issues.
in writing. - the rapporteur has prepared a very thorough and reliable report. i believe that the european parliament's proposal in this form will allow the work to continue on the integration of the eu energy market and to strengthen the agency's powers in relation to all cross-border issues, which will result in effective cooperation between member states.
in writing. - in poland, the number of accidents involving pedestrians increased by 5.7% and those involving cyclists by as much as 16.8% last year. i support mr ferrari's report and i think that it is necessary to increase safety requirements, but we must also remember that the costs of introducing them should not be focused on vehicle owners. for the lesser poland voivodeship, which i represent, the accident rate is the lowest in the country (at 7/100), although there are many dangerous points due to excessive traffic and inadequate road infrastructure.
in writing. - i would like to underline the importance of this report and congratulate the author on the result achieved. it is a fact that every year in the european union, 8 000 road users, mainly pedestrians and cyclists, are killed and another 300 000 are injured. this situation not only brings individual tragedies but also has serious economic and social consequences. therefore, union action to better protect pedestrians and other vulnerable road users from injuries caused by motor vehicle collisions should be considered highly desirable. since october 2005, according to the current regulations, some vehicles have to undergo a series of performance tests based on the recommendations of the joint research centre. in addition, the union proposes to tighten up the testing requirements for cars entering the european market after 2010. the regulation allows active and passive safety measures to be combined and provides for the introduction of collision avoidance systems in the future. there is no effective pedestrian collision protection system on the market so far, and the commission is right to encourage the industry to develop such a system. i also share the rapporteur's view that technical possibilities for raising passive safety standards should be continuously monitored and possibilities for increased safety requirements monitored accordingly.
in writing. - report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users (2007/0201) there are currently no collision avoidance systems on the market that can effectively and correctly recognise pedestrians or other unprotected road users while maintaining all the necessary conditions. i share the rapporteur's view that it is essential to introduce measures to reduce the number of injuries and, above all, the number of fatalities among pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. it is worth emphasising that the proposed amendments aim to tighten the provisions of the regulation where possible. i am voting in favour of the report because i believe that we should not only monitor the development of active safety technology but also examine the possibility of introducing stricter requirements for passive safety (vehicle design).
in writing. - pedestrians and cyclists are very common victims of road accidents. protecting their lives is a major challenge for the automotive industry. a very good solution is the epp (electronic pedestrian protection) system, which helps to mitigate the effects of a collision with a car. this solution absorbs the force of the impact on the front of the car, thus reducing the extent of the injury. another equally effective method, which provides protection for pedestrians by actively covering the engine, was used in the c6. when the pedestrian is hit, the engine's mask automatically lifts. the cap is raised by 65 mm in 0.40 seconds by a shock detector and pyrotechnic mechanism, and a separate mechanism keeps it in the raised position despite the shock force, thus absorbing the energy generated by the distortion. a beam equipped with energy absorbers also has a protective function in the event of a light impact. all vehicles should undergo as many tests as possible to improve safety on eu roads.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr galeote quecedo gerardo on the proposal for autonomous community tariff quotas for the importation of certain fishery products into the canary islands. the report proposes to suspend the common customs tariff on imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period 2007-13. it should be noted that the provisions to which the request relates expired on 31 december 2006. the proposal to open and manage duty-free tariff quotas is in line with article 299 (2) of the ec treaty, which provides for specific measures to assist the outermost regions. i therefore vote in favour of the report because i believe that the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands in relation to the sources of supply of certain fishery products, which are extremely important for domestic consumption, creates additional costs for the sector. these natural difficulties arising from the situation can be remedied, inter alia, by temporarily suspending the levying of customs duties on imports of the products concerned from third countries.
madam president! the world and europe are in a situation where oil prices can determine not only economic growth but also the depth of the crisis, which has its origins in the food market, in fisheries, and will soon have problems in the transport sector. what action? the long-term is the construction of a stable energy policy, understood very broadly, which is what we are talking about so much in the union and in parliament. short-term action: we need to target aid to specific areas, i.e. specific support for farmers, fishermen and also for transport operators, already in the second half of this year. i emphasize: the deliberate allocation of specific aid during a specific part of the year. action should be taken to limit speculation and monopolistic practices. finally, let us be clear: tax policy needs to be reviewed at both eu and national level.
mr. chairman, please! fishing is a very specific sector of our economy. the economic operators are very fragmented and dispersed. these are often family-run, local businesses with limited catch sizes and therefore no ability to increase production to generate a satisfactory income at increased costs. you can say, costs go up, so fish prices have to go up, but these relationships have a limit, how much, what price can the consumer pay? what about their reason? to counter the current difficult situation, i propose to grant certain fuel subsidies to fishermen, subsidies dependent on oil prices. fishermen and their families have no possibility of earning extra income in another activity. in conclusion, fisheries policy needs a new approach.
the chairman of the council. - i would also like to emphasise in my concluding statement that the council is aware of the difficult situation of the fisheries sector in the european union, but it is necessary to distinguish between two aspects: the specific characteristics of the fisheries sector and the high fuel prices, which, as already mentioned, affect many, practically all sectors, including, of course, the fisheries sector. the council is very active in seeking solutions: intensive consultations are under way, culminating next week in the agriculture and fisheries council, and short, medium and long-term measures are being sought to preserve european fisheries, to overcome the current difficult phase, to preserve both coastal and high seas fisheries. i can assure you that i have followed this debate closely and that the president of the fisheries council will be fully informed of the views expressed in this debate, including your initial reactions to the proposals and plans presented by the commissioner.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would firstly like to thank everyone for their comments, for the various points that they have raised and also for the general expression of support for the package that the commission intends to propose. i would like to say that this is not the end of the whole process but just the beginning. we still need to steer these proposals through council and parliament and i would repeat that we need your full support in order to get these proposals through as rapidly as possible, especially in those parts which would require legislative amendment. what i have presented represents, in my view, the limits of flexibility in addressing the short-term crisis, with a view to putting in place a medium- and longer-term perspective of restructuring, in order to regain sustainability of resources and the profitability of the sector. i agree that these measures should not be seen in isolation but also within the context of the ongoing discussions concerning iuu, discards, eco-labelling and various other measures which we are in the process of having adopted. with regard to iuu for example, i hope that on tuesday of next week a decision will be taken in council on the proposed regulation to effectively combat iuu fishing, on which the european parliament has given overwhelming support. i would like to say to mr davies that we are not proposing to throw money at the problem, but to provide assistance with a view to restructuring – as i said, to regain sustainable fishing and profitable fishing. i would invite mr davies to examine what we would be proposing and, if he has any specific comments to make, i would certainly welcome them. yes, we will work to enable the proper market mechanisms to operate rather than continuing to allow a few huge operators to dominate the market when setting fish prices. in response to what mr allister said, the package makes it more attractive for member states to take up what is available under the european fisheries fund, and therefore we hope that member states will fully engage. we will be discussing this in next week’s council in order to implement effectively these measures that we are proposing. i will just go very briefly through the measures that are envisaged. first of all, we are looking at the emergency measures, where we are proposing assistance for temporary cessation for fishing vessels (and this also goes in the direction of sustainability) for a maximum period of three months in addition to what is already in the european fisheries fund, and not linked exclusively to biological reasons. such a measure may finance cruise costs and fixed costs of vessels. this measure will only apply in cases where there is an explicit commitment that the enterprises benefiting from it will be included in a restructuring plan within a period of six months. a second provision relates to the increase in the eff aid intensity for fuel-saving equipment. we are proposing that the mandatory private financial participation will be at a lower rate and will therefore be at 40% of its present level. we are also proposing to extend further a number of socioeconomic measures which are eligible under eff. on de minimis aid we are looking at making provisions so that if, on an economic analysis, it proves to be feasible, then our proposal would be to extend the de minimis aid from eur 30 000 per enterprise to eur 30 000 per vessel but with a maximum cap of eur 100 000 per enterprise. the longer-term measures would relate to eff premiums for permanent cessation of fleets in restructuring, so that we would lift any limitations on access to permanent cessation premiums; and additional aid for temporary cessation, so that beyond the first three months that i mentioned, we will be proposing that there will be an additional three months to be taken during the period of restructuring, where vessels will be necessarily laid up because of the restructuring process. this would be up to the period of 1 january 2010, and for an additional three months if the restructuring needs to go beyond 1 january 2010. so it would be a maximum of six months beyond the three months given as an emergency aid. we are also providing for increasing the aid intensity for modernisation schemes. today the private financial participation is 60% and 80% for gear and engine replacement respectively. we are proposing to reduce the private financial participation to 40%. we are doing this because we realise that the private sector – the private entrepreneurs, the fishermen – are not in a position to be able to significantly part-finance any restructuring out of their own pockets. we are trying to make it as easy as possible for fishermen to undertake restructuring by providing the lion’s share of the expense that will be incurred. we are also allowing for the granting of partial decommissioning. in other words, if there is a group of vessels and that group of vessels represents, say, 100 000 tonnes, and they undertake to decommission 50 000 or 60 000 tonnes, leaving 40 000 tonnes by virtue of which they want to construct new vessels, then for the amount partially decommissioned – for the 50 000 or 60 000 tonnes – they would be given decommissioning aid. obviously that would mean that the size of the fleet would be reduced. you would have a newer fleet but this would mean that the compensation would have been paid for the amount by which it had been reduced. we are also proposing social aid in the form of decreased social security contributions. in other words, what we are proposing is that there will be the possibility for the contributions payable by fishermen, and not the contributions payable by the enterprises employing them, to be exempted on condition that the remuneration of the fishermen is not reduced and on condition that the fishermen remain in receipt of the same social benefits under any existing schemes. with regard to market measures – a point mentioned by mrs fraga – i would like to state that there are various measures which we are proposing: increasing fishermen’s bargaining position vis-à-vis the processing industry and distributors by joining forces with larger pos or local marketing associations; establishing a price monitoring system to better understand the factors determining market prices; improving predictability of sourcing for eu-origin products for the industry; promoting quality initiatives like labelling and better handling and processing; promoting information to consumers; health and nutrition; responsible fishing; market audit assessment; developing tools to analyse the value chain and prices; and verifying the correct implementation of the monitoring of labelling measures and iuu. we are also making available from our own funds – from other fisheries funds – for the first year, eur 20-25 million in order specifically to launch other projects in cooperation with the sector in the area of market monitoring, labelling etc. we are prepared to reopen discussions with member states – even though we have just concluded them – on the existing operational programmes in order to ensure that the european fisheries funds are focused more on these restructuring programmes. we are facilitating the use of the european fisheries fund. for example – just to mention one point in addition – it is proposed to double the eff pre-financing amount paid by the commission after the adoption of the operational programmes from the current 7% to 14% of the total eff contribution. i have two final points. mrs fraga said that we could have done more before. i would like just to introduce a nuance to this. we could have acted differently before. we could have avoided incentivising and encouraging over-capacity and not thrown precious public money at unwarranted huge increases of capacity way beyond what the stocks of our fish can reasonably sustain. concerning mrs doyle’s remarks – that the cfp has failed miserably – i simply do not agree. it is because of the cfp that we can put forward proposed common solutions as we are doing now, instead of witnessing individual member states joining in a race downhill in the direction of the total destruction of fishing.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. this is a very important debate for all coastal countries and consumers alike. as the participants in the debate recalled, we all lived with the feeling that oil prices would never rise. of course, this was after years of neglect and the lack of imagination of the institutions in charge. today, the mere fact of taking boats and canoes out to sea has become unprofitable, and the price of fish does not compensate for the cost. many fishermen may be forced to retire, which could upset the whole economy. i think that few people listened to the fishermen's voices, and it was only after the crisis that the conscience of many people was awakened, and the problems of the sector started many years ago. there is still a lack of a comprehensive debate on this sector, a substantive and frank debate. we must solve this deep crisis now and take care of the fisheries sector.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the eu-russia summit (26-27 june 2008).
the chairman of the council. − i am very pleased to present to you today the preparations for the eu-russia summit, the 21st eu-russia summit, which will take place later this month, on 26 and 27 june, in the town of hanti-mansisk, in western siberia. the presidency considers this forthcoming summit to be a great opportunity, in particular for both sides, the european union and the russian federation, to open a new chapter in their relations. above all, we must be prepared to take advantage of the potential positive impetus that the newly elected russian president medvedev could bring to eu-russia relations. the central objective of the summit is, of course, to open negotiations with the russian federation on a new framework agreement. the presidency is very pleased that the council adopted the negotiating mandate for the new agreement on 26 may. the presidency has worked hard in recent months, together with the commission at the highest level, to resolve the remaining problems on the part of the european union. during the negotiations that will now follow, the negotiations for a new agreement, the european union will seek to further deepen cooperation with the russian federation in all areas of common interest, while also addressing those issues where our positions, the positions of the european union and the positions of russia differ. in addition to this, the summit will, as usual, be an opportunity to assess progress in the implementation of the four common spaces. let me very quickly highlight the current main features under each room. as regards the first, the common economic area, we will be advocating at the summit the use of an early warning mechanism in the energy sector. we will reiterate that the establishment of predictable and established rules is of the utmost importance for foreign investment in russia. the european union also intends to underline that formal negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement can begin as soon as russia has finally acceded to the world trade organisation. as regards the long-standing problem of charging fees for trans-siberian flights, the european union will continue to advocate the signing of the existing agreement. in the context of the second common area, which concerns the area of freedom, security and justice, the european union intends to express its concern at the situation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in russia, in particular in the light of the recent elections. i should add that the presidency shares the european parliament's concerns in this respect. the summit will also provide an opportunity to assess progress in the implementation of visa waiver and readmission agreements. in the context of the third common area, external security, the european union will give priority to the need for more concrete action to continue cooperation within the common neighbourhood. in particular, we will emphasise that russia must work towards a settlement of the conflict in transnistria and georgia. we would also like to welcome russia's participation in the eufor operation in chad and agree on further cooperation within the framework of the european security and defence policy. as regards the fourth common area, research, education and culture, the summit will welcome the first meeting of the permanent research partnership council, held in slovenia in may. finally, the summit will also be an opportunity to discuss current international issues such as frozen conflicts, the middle east, iran, afghanistan and others. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that the summit will also place a strong emphasis on the efforts of both sides to ensure the stable and democratic development of the countries in the common neighbourhood. concrete cooperation between the european union and russia in the framework of the common neighbourhood is essential to resolve problems of european and russian interest and concern to both sides, in particular frozen conflicts. i'll finish this and listen to your argument with interest. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. − mr president, with a new russian president in office, as has just been said, and also with our mandate finally in place to negotiate a new agreement with russia, i think we have an opportunity to redefine this essential partnership with our largest neighbour based on a number of common interests. getting the eu-russia relationship right is one of the most important challenges in european foreign policy: we all know that. the launch of negotiations will be the centrepiece of the first eu-russia summit with president medvedev in khanty-mansiysk at the end of june. right after that the negotiators will begin the first session of their work. the new agreement between the eu and russia gives us the chance to update the legal framework underpinning our relationship so as to reflect the substantial changes in both russia and the european union, because we have changed a lot since the current partnership and cooperation agreement was negotiated in the 1990s. i believe it will also help us to unlock the potential of our relationship, because there is huge potential, and to pursue the interests of our member states much more vigorously. the hallmarks should be: results-orientated political cooperation, deep economic integration, a level playing field for our energy relations enshrining the principles at least of the energy charter treaty, and ever closer relations in the field of freedom, security and justice, as well as a progressive opening of our educational and scientific systems to each other. at the same time, we should continue to implement the cooperation with russia under the four common spaces, which the president-in-office of the council has just mentioned, and their road maps. they indeed comprise a wide range of actions giving concrete expression to this strategic partnership. the new agreement should also provide the legal framework to build on these for the future. the summit will also be an opportunity to hear at first hand where president medvedev sees russia’s priorities with the european union. i think we always have to look to what he has said, for example in an important financial times interview where he said he wants more rule of law in russia and he also wants a greater modernisation of the russian economy. of course, we will judge him by his deeds. while there will certainly be, at the beginning, strong continuity of policies in russia, the new president has stressed his commitment to the rule of law and the modernisation of the russian economy, and i think we should encourage him to match all his words with clear action, and with action that should happen soon. while we pursue our common interests with russia, we must nevertheless remain clear and firm on democracy and human rights. we will continue to remind russia of the commitments that we have both signed up to, notably, for instance, with the council of europe and also the osce. we are often close partners with russia in tackling international challenges, for example as members of the middle east quartet – most probably we will again be in berlin next week – but we also need, as our colleague has said, to see a russia that pursues a positive agenda with its other neighbours; so it is true that we are concerned that recent russian moves in georgia could undermine stability in the region. therefore during my visit to moscow some 10 days ago i had a very long conversation with foreign minister lavrov in which i discussed this important issue. we should gradually establish with russia a continuous high-level non-confrontational dialogue covering all the aspects of conflict resolution, including peace-keeping and peace mechanism aspects, since russia indeed will clearly remain an essential actor in any peace efforts regarding the frozen conflicts. on the other hand, it is natural that tblisi is seriously concerned about maintaining its territorial integrity and in the summit discussion on frozen conflicts we will certainly firmly underline that georgian and ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity must be respected; but i think we also need to be pragmatic, realistic and have an inclusive approach from the georgian side. in my regular contacts with both georgia and russia, i am indeed urging pragmatism and an end to the setting of mutually exclusive conditions: these will not work. in conclusion, the eu-russia summit is a chance to embark on a constructive relationship with the new administration, defending our values and promoting our common interests. i look forward to your input and to the discussion in the house. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the upcoming eu-russia summit will be the first meeting between eu leaders and the new russian authorities elected after the recent elections. it will therefore be an excellent opportunity to gain a better understanding of russian policy and how it is being pursued. some light on what this policy might look like will be shed by president medvedev's speech in berlin. it contains a number of promising statements on the fight against corruption and the rule of law, except that his predecessor, president putin, made similar statements at the beginning of his presidency, and we know what the reality was and is. but that speech also included a worldview that we might not want. according to her, the european union, or rather the countries of the european union, are reduced to the role of a purely economic partner of russia, which wants to carry out political activities in a much wider space from vancouver to vladivostok. there is another subject worth considering, one that is much more detailed but urgent. it's russia's relationship with georgia. in abkhazia, part of georgia, as a result of the 1994 agreement, russian troops from the mandates of the commonwealth of independent states, i.e. the post-soviet grouping of countries, are stationed. all indications are that they are not peacekeepers, but simply parties to the conflict between abkhaz separatists and the georgian government. the russian aircraft's downing of a georgian unmanned aerial vehicle is a clear indication of this. recently, by a unilateral decision of the russian authorities alone, these forces have been significantly strengthened. in this situation, it would be of the utmost importance that the european union should be involved in the solution of this conflict as a reliable and trustworthy actor.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. for some time now, we have been witnessing the startling practice of the russian gazprom collecting former prime ministers of european union countries. the best example of this is former german chancellor gerhard schröder, who first signed the nord stream pipeline agreement with russia and then became a member of the company's supervisory board. we're seeing similar moves in southern europe with another russian company's project, the south stream pipeline. i would like to emphasize that none of the western energy companies are as closely tied to the state as gazprom is to the kremlin. with his designs, we are dealing with cold political calculation, when normal market rules simply do not work. it is high time that the european union recognized this and took action to prevent a state-sponsored company from turning the pipeline into a tool of political pressure. russia's energy dominance will inevitably lead to further increases in energy prices in europe. russia will also be able to force even bigger political concessions for gas and oil supplies. the european union must, of course, build a good relationship with russia, but to do so effectively it must show unity, a unity which we do not have at the moment. i would like the forthcoming eu-russia summit to be a demonstration of the european union's solidarity with russia's energy expansion.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, ‘russia is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma,’ churchill once said. the european union has agreed on what it wants from russia. the question is, how fast? energy politics turns germany blind to polish and lithuanian demands. nord stream, depal – it looks like all pipelines from russia lead over the heads of central european countries. this is not a pipe dream, as the perestroika guy, gorbachev, said. the economist admits that the baltic pipe was conceived in secret. lithuanian demands for firmer terms concerning energy seem, therefore, relevant. many eurocrats fumed about that to strengthen the view of neurotic post-communist countries. on the other hand, germany’s economy minister threatens that his country will not let the eu commission dictate decisions in the backrooms in brussels. he definitely did not mean human rights, i guess. the initiative of the ‘eastern partnership’ launched by poland and sweden may be spectacular. bravery is good, but brains are better. the partnership between the eu and russia is uneasy. it will not be successful without poland, which is russia’s natural neighbour by land, water and air. it is something that all sides obviously need to take into consideration, especially today when the treaty of lisbon was pulled down and its falling bricks may damage whatever stands in its way. good resolutions are useless attempts if they interfere with sovereign nations. ‘perhaps there is a key to russia. that key is russian national interest,’ churchill added. the opinion that ‘nothing is impossible in russia but reform’ seems to be no longer true. whatever the approach, the eu needs to cooperate with russia, and vice versa.
mr. chairman, please! the siberian meeting of the european union and russia should be a meeting of friends seeking a real agreement. if we want to improve our relationship, we should treat our mate seriously. i have heard, for example, that the european union is going to try to teach russia democratic rules, and we have a democratic deficit in brussels. after all, even in this room, the irish referendum was being questioned. i understand that you are concerned about the situation in georgia. isn't this the himalayas of hypocrisy? one day you violate the territorial integrity of serbia by recognizing kosovo, and today you tell the abkhaz people, by taking away their possibility of independence, that they are a country where different rules apply? you must know that it was stalin who took abkhazia and pushed it into georgia. today we cannot enter into this world that we do not understand. i think that to talk to russia, you have to know not only the history, but also the mentality of the russians. today we must see that russia is well governed. people in russia are living better and better, and russia is becoming a democratic country. the unjustified, mentoring tone of brussels officials only brings a smile of irritation to moscow.
mr. chairman, please! the complex relationship between the european union and russia requires well-run and consistent diplomatic efforts. the upcoming eu-russia summit is a very emotional one, as agreements of great importance to both russia and the european union are to be negotiated. the union must ensure that europe's energy security is of strategic importance both for the european union's economy as a whole and for individual households in an era of rising raw material and energy prices. on the eve of the eu-russia summit, we must realise how important it is for the future of the union that it speaks with one coherent voice on the international stage. it is therefore regrettable that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is uncertain, since it contains provisions which will make the european union a reliable partner in international relations. i am glad that the european union has helped poland in its dispute with russia over the export of our products and i believe that poland will also help in the coming years to develop positive relations between russia and the european union.
mr. chairman, we are a community that respects the rule of law as one of the foundations of our identity. we should also demand that our political and economic partners respect it. i call on the representatives of the european union to raise the issue of russia's full compliance with the judgments of the european court of human rights at the summit. we did not create this tribunal to be a front institution, to be obeyed only by those who commit against freedom the petty and sometimes controversial offenses. it is designed to make the perpetrators of torture, rape, and murder hesitate to commit another crime, knowing that they may be punished for it. therefore, the russian federation must cooperate as closely as possible with the tribunal and its rulings must be respected by the russian people. logically, a country that does not respect the agreements cannot be considered a reliable partner. the actions of the russians are in stark contrast to the declarations that we are a reliable supplier of energy resources. that's one of the favorite phrases of russian diplomats. if it is as credible as the chechens, politkovskaya or litvinenko case, the european union will be remembered by historians as the most naive institution in history.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to clarify to mr papadimoulis that the european council is not taking any concrete action. the european council gives guidelines for action. concrete action is taken at council level and this is where the council is active and operates. i have mentioned, i have listed, a series of measures that the council has already taken. i have also listed a number of measures which are expected to be considered by the council but which have not yet been. so i cannot accept the argument that these are just words, because i have spoken of concrete measures already taken and those which will be considered at the level of the council, in particular the agriculture council and the economic and financial affairs council. the question of the united states and its biofuel production methods. this is, of course, a matter for dialogue between the european union and the united states of america. this is also one of the issues that is regularly discussed, the issue of biofuels. of course, there are different views, and they're very diverse. the fact is that it is important to take into account that the alternative to biofuels is fossil fuels. and now we have to judge from this perspective what is more problematic and what is not. the european union is aware of the potential impact of biofuel production on food prices. this is why the council recently adopted measures to promote the use or production of second-generation biofuels, i.e. those whose production does not compete with food production. at the same time, the development of sustainability criteria for biofuel production is underway, which, once adopted, will apply to both the union production of biofuels itself and to imported biofuels.
the chairman of the council. − in the context of road safety legislation, the slovenian presidency continued its examination of the proposal for a parliament and council directive on improving the safety of road infrastructure. it also organised a series of technical meetings with the rapporteur of the european parliament in the hope that an agreement could be reached with the european parliament at first reading next month. among the slovenian presidency's efforts to improve road safety, i would also like to mention the work carried out on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. this proposal introduces improvements to the frontal parts of cars that manufacturers must take into account in order to minimise the injuries to pedestrians in the event of a collision between a vehicle and a pedestrian. the slovenian presidency started the examination of the proposal in the council working parties and successfully conducted meetings with the rapporteur of the european parliament. progress on the adoption of the road transport package could also be seen in the context of efforts to improve road safety. i would note that the transport council reached political agreement on the package on 13 june 2008. within this package, i would like to highlight in particular the proposal for a regulation on common rules on the conditions for the exercise of the activity of road haulage operator. it is very important to us that this proposal also defines a list of the most serious road traffic offences. in the event of such an infringement by a carrier, this may lead to the loss of the licence to operate. in this way, the control of these carriers will also be facilitated and made more efficient through the specific national registers to be established by this regulation, which will certainly have a positive impact on road safety. i should also mention the proposal for a regulation on market access rules, which is also part of this package. this introduces a reduction in the number of empty lorry transport operations, a higher level of professional qualification of drivers, a rationalisation of the market, an increase in the quality of services and thus also indirectly affects road safety. the presidency also started this month with the proposal for a directive on facilitating crossborder enforcement in the field of road safety. this is the proposal that the commission put forward in april this year. in the light of the time available and the number of commission proposals in the field of road safety number of proposals currently under consideration in the council it is our assessment that considerable progress has been made in the field of road safety. of course, a full evaluation of the results will only be possible after the end of our presidency.
the chairman of the council. mr. higgins' question is, what else could we do? the main thing that both the council and parliament can do is to speed up the procedures that are already under way and to adopt the decisions that are already in place, certainly in this mandate of the european parliament. the first item on the agenda, hopefully in july, is the directive on improving road safety. there are a number of other measures already under way, as i have mentioned, and i would like to see a good cooperation between the european parliament and the council leading to their swift adoption. mr. rack's question, i think, requires a more political answer. we will not be satisfied as long as people are dying on the roads of the european union. and while that's the case, we'll have to look for new measures, additional measures to reduce the number of deaths and injuries, with the ideal number being zero. of course, drugs are a similar problem to alcohol. i think they deserve the same treatment as alcohol. it is a question of driving and i do not think that member states should make any distinction between one type of drug or another, which is essentially what alcohol is, except that it is a legal drug.
the chairman of the council. - i must emphasise again that i am here as the representative of the council and that the council has not dealt with the questions raised by mr leichtfried. but as i said, i think at the last session of the european parliament, when i got a similar question. given that i know the member state concerned somewhat better, i can answer, but i do not want to risk the impression that i am overstepping the bounds of my powers in which i appear before you. so let's try, let me just clarify a little bit. the new tolling system in slovenia, which will come into force on 1 july, is called the purchase of vignette, and it applies only to vehicles with a maximum authorised mass of less than three thousand five hundred kilograms. that is to say, it is a category of vehicles for which the community legislation in force on road charges does not lay down any common rules, as is the case for vehicles with a maximum authorised mass exceeding three thousand five hundred kilograms. consequently, that tolling system introduced by the republic of slovenia does not fall within the scope of the community legislation referred to above. perhaps more importantly, the vignette tolling system introduced by the republic of slovenia is temporary. it will only apply for a transitional period until the introduction of electronic or satellite tolling, which is expected to be introduced in 2009, first for trucks and then for passenger cars. please accept, mr. deputy, my answer as a gesture, a wish to explain myself. but it doesn't change the fact that i'm here in some other capacity, not as the representative of the republic of slovenia.
the chairman of the council. - it has not yet been established that discrimination is involved in this case. if it does, it'll create a new situation, one i don't want to speculate about. at present, however, it does not appear that the allegations of discrimination are justified, since the system of vignette is identical for citizens of the republic of slovenia as for all others. but i would like to end here, i would like to emphasize, i am here as a representative of the council, the council has not discussed this. consider it a gesture of good faith that i am, however, engaging in this discussion and trying to give you these explanations in the best of faith.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i wanted to welcome to our ranks, in his new capacity, commissioner tajani. commissioner, i voted for you, and i think i did the right thing. the dangerous goods directive updates de facto four commission decisions and brings them together in one legal act. it covers the transport of dangerous goods by inland waterways which has not been subject to union legislation until now. this proposal also transposes into community law international rules on the transport of dangerous goods, but extends them to national transport. we expect to achieve a higher level of safety as a result, as well as improved intermodality for the transport of dangerous goods. i would remind you that parliament adopted 42 amendments at first reading. in those 42 amendments, the essence was that member states which do not have a rail system do not have to transpose and implement this directive. secondly, a transitional period of up to two years was introduced to adapt to the effective application of those provisions. thirdly, the principle has been introduced that member states may lay down specific requirements for the national and international transport of dangerous goods within their territory, taking into account the specific characteristics of both road vehicles, railway wagons and inland waterway vessels. they may also specify routes and special types of transport and lay down rules for the transport of dangerous goods in their territory by passenger trains. the commission and the council agreed to those amendments. the council considered it appropriate to introduce two new amendments. first, an additional paragraph is proposed in article 1 which allows member states to regulate or even prohibit the transport of dangerous goods within their territory for reasons other than safety during transport. and secondly, the council proposes a new paragraph 8 which provides that the commission provides financial support to the member states for the translation into their official languages of the agreements on the international carriage of dangerous goods by road, the international regulations for the carriage of dangerous goods by rail and the 'european agreement concerning the international carriage of dangerous goods by inland waterways'. as rapporteur, i support these two council proposals and i am calling for them to be adopted. in conclusion, i would like to express my great satisfaction with the effective, efficient and very cooperative cooperation with both the commission and the council.
mr. chairman, please! almost a year ago, i was driving down the highway, and i witnessed a liquefied gas tanker overturned. there was nowhere to go, there was a huge traffic jam. we were all anxiously waiting to see if it would go off. this happens every day on the roads of the union. it's a good thing we're finally settling this issue, that he'll be safe on the roads and tracks. this is the next directive to improve the safety of our citizens, reduce accidents and create a uniform legal framework. thank you, mr. ambassador from the liberation army, for your contribution to the work of the united nations.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that a good job has been done in adopting a legislative text which contributes and will contribute to giving greater security to european citizens on the roads of the union. dangerous goods - we know this - can be dangerous. that is why it is right that the european union should take action to ensure the safety of all its citizens, because i repeat what i said at the hearing the other night: one of my priorities is to protect the rights of citizens. every initiative the commission will take will be to ensure the protection of citizens and to give concrete answers to citizens' demands. the debate this evening has shown clearly the will of this parliament to help to pass a regulation which will enable citizens to travel on the roads in a safer way. the commission will certainly be responsible for monitoring the application of the rules by the member states, as it does for all other rules. the commission is the guardian of the treaties and i intend to fulfil that duty scrupulously. so, also with regard to the regulation we are approving in these hours, i will do everything to ensure that it is applied and i will ensure that all the member states of the union, in the best interests of the european citizens, apply it. i thank you, mr president, and i thank the rapporteur again for the excellent work he has done and for his ability, even at second reading, to contribute to making the legislative text better and clearer.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mrs sommer and mrs griesbeck, and also mr robert evans and mrs ţicău for their comments, cooperation and support. two comments on the comments by mrs lichtenberger on the control of the implementation of the rules. indeed, the purpose of this two-year transitional period is to enable the member states to prepare themselves to enforce this new situation effectively. i would like to emphasise very clearly that so far only eight of the 27 member states have accepted all three international instruments, namely the adr, the rid and the adn, at the same time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in full, both in international transport and in national transport, and i think we are on the right track. i thank you very much again, commissioner, for your understanding and i thank your colleagues. it has been a pleasure to work with both the commission and the council.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that you, commissioner, have upheld the position of your predecessor. of course, like mr. markov, who put in a lot of work, like mrs. sommer said, this directive was threatened in a very fundamental way - to be or not to be. i was one of those, and my political group is one, who wanted and wants this directive, partly because we want to use it as an effective instrument to influence the countries, especially those from the last two enlargements, in terms of the way, the technology, the methods, the pace, the timetable for modernising their infrastructure from a security point of view. we have very important prerequisites for this. if we have a similar number of road accidents in poland as in germany, it means that things are going badly in poland and the same in the new countries. that is why we will support the compromises and amendments that have been presented. i'm asking for a lot of support. this is not just a cosmetic compromise of the version that was submitted. it's an important compromise, i think, that satisfies everyone. i would like to thank mr. helmut markov again for his cooperation. you were not the hard worker you claimed to be. i am pleased that we can have an important instrument to improve road safety.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i join in the warm welcome to the commissioner and wish him the very best of his work and cooperation with us. today, when we are working on the directive on road safety, we are following a certain pattern which has been set out for us at this part-session of parliament in strasbourg. yesterday we were working on the safety of pedestrians and cyclists, today we were talking about the transport of dangerous goods, now we are talking about road safety, tomorrow we will be talking about the project on the intelligent car. this is good news for european union citizens, because it shows that the european parliament is doing something concrete that can change their road safety. of course, this good news is met with a whole host of questions. first of all, we must realize that this is a chain of events, that none of these directives or other legal acts solves the problem by itself, that our will is to improve the system, our will is that from year to year there are fewer accidents, that their effects are less and less. but the implementation of these documents is a very important issue, especially for the new countries, for those countries where the road infrastructure is very significantly neglected, where this directive will be useful. and it should be very clear that this is not an over-regulation of european law, but it is a useful directive from this perspective. it can provide a standard that governments will have to implement. i also compliment our rapporteur, mr markov. this text is positive, it is good and, as i said, it is part of a certain sequence of work we are doing here in the european parliament on improving the road safety of our citizens. i thank you very much and i hope that the european parliament will not stop at this.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in countries with advanced transportation, road accidents are the leading cause of death and disability among citizens. the directive on the safety of road infrastructure in the trans-european network is a document that will reduce the number of accidents. the document is the necessary legislation, covering road safety issues from design to operation in a comprehensive way. the amendments submitted are of a substantive nature. i propose that the amendment to article 5 (1) be deleted from the amendments submitted, which increases the period of inspection of dangerous sections of the road network from one year to three years. such an increase is not justified at the time of the directive's implementation. the directive is comprehensive and, in line with the assumptions, better safety oversight of existing, built, repaired and designed roads should halve the number of fatal accidents by 2010. the directive can be used by member states to organise the supervision of national and regional roads in order to reduce the number of road accidents in the european union, which kill some 40 000 people a year and are the main cause of death for people under 45. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i congratulate rapporteur helmut markov on his excellent report and his contribution to the drafting of the directive. we support the directive.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i congratulate you on your appointment, commissioner, and i now move on to the speech. we have made some progress in road safety by taking appropriate action on vehicles and drivers. but there's still a lot of work to be done, because the statistics are alarming. every year, some 43 000 people die on the roads of the union. the global death toll from road accidents is even more staggering, reaching 1.2 million. nearly one third of all deaths among young people are caused by accidents. the initiative to improve road safety is very important, because the physical condition of the roads has a huge impact on the number of accidents that occur on our roads every day. many of today's road networks were built decades ago and no longer meet current safety standards, both because of their physical characteristics and condition and because of the current traffic levels. i support the rapporteur's request that the scope of the directive not be restricted to the trans-european road networks alone. it should have a much wider range. statistics show that only 7% of accidents happen on the highways. two thirds of the fatalities are on single-lane roads in undeveloped and rural areas. safety must be taken into account at the planning, design, including the design of the road infrastructure, and at the operational stage.
mr. chairman, please! it is very good that we are trying to create a directive on road infrastructure safety management. at present, some member states (germany, denmark, france, sweden, the netherlands, austria, spain, the united kingdom) have a network of safe roads, but this does not mean that they cannot be improved. others have average, like the czech republic, italy, portugal, and others like poland, romania, bulgaria, bad. we are committed to ensuring that citizens of the union are as safe as possible in all member states. it is therefore surprising that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and not in breach of it, we are trying not to introduce mandatory rules, leaving a number of matters to the discretion of the member states, such as extending the scope of application to other national roads not in the transeuropean road network. how do we then imagine improving the condition of other roads, for example in poland? how can we ensure that no more trenches are dug several metres deep, that safety belts are created not only on national roads but also on motorways, that the roadways are painted with colors that are visible even in the rain, that unnecessary signs and road markings are removed? this will not be possible if the principles we are talking about in the draft directive are not made mandatory. i therefore propose that the representatives of the committee on transport and tourism should visit poland, and then it will be easier for them to make the right decision and convince all the members. i was more in favour of helmut markov's earlier report, but i think he will not give in to pressure and will continue to present his way of thinking. i am in favour of the binding nature of the first, second and third annexes. i congratulate you, mr. ambassador.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to draw attention to four points in speaking on behalf of the uen group in this debate. first, the 2003 reform of the common agricultural policy, which proposed to separate direct payments from production, has resulted in a systematic reduction in the volume of sheep and goat production in the european union. secondly, the other reasons for the decline of this sector are higher than average increases in production costs, mainly fuel, electricity and feed, as well as excessive imports of meat from third countries whose farmers do not have to comply with strict standards related to breeding. thirdly, such farming plays an important role in protecting the environment, including maintaining less fertile soils by natural methods, preserving biodiversity and contributing to the protection of the landscape. furthermore, sheep and goat farming takes place in areas where other agricultural uses are practically impossible. fourthly, urgent action is therefore needed at european union level to protect the sheep and goat sector and, in particular, to introduce a system of income support for producers to encourage them to develop this type of production.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the situation in the sheep and goat sector clearly indicates a crisis in the common agricultural policy. we have further proof that agricultural policy is not delivering on expectations and that keeping it that way leads to a loss of food security. after the crisis in the cereals market, where 2 900 000 hectares of pasture had to be released quickly, it turns out that there is a crisis in the milk market caused by restrictive policies and penalties imposed on farmers and we had to raise the milk quota by 2% quickly, which does not guarantee the proper implementation of the tasks in the future. now it turns out that we also have a crisis in the sheep and goat sector, as well as horses and many crops. in short, agricultural policy must be changed, but not by industry. we cannot allow the fact that someone will invent new charges, such as electronic sheep marking, and then have the farmers and consumers pay for it.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i believe that this report contains many points which, if implemented, will have a positive impact on the future of the sheep and goat sector in europe. i particularly find the proposal to introduce additional support for sheep farming in mountain areas and where sheep production is the only form of agricultural activity extremely valuable. this low-income sector has been struggling for a long time with many problems. production and consumption are falling, imports are rising and production costs are rising. the current bluetongue situation and the related restrictions on movements of animals and trade are creating additional difficulties and have socio-economic consequences. it should be stressed that the problems of this sector stem, among other things, from the separation of payments from production. support instruments to help rebuild the ovine and caprine herds in the union should be proposed. i can't imagine a situation where sheep have completely disappeared from the mountain landscape. they're part of it. given the financial situation of the sector, it is difficult to justify the introduction of an electronic identification system for sheep and goats. the costs of introducing new chips will again fall on european breeders. instead, we should consider how we can increase our intake of lamb and goat meat, which are considered to be of great value in dietary terms.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i am very sorry, but mr liam aylward's report is really not about the future of the sheep and goat sector in europe, but rather about defending it. we didn't notice when the sheep and goats, like the horses, almost disappeared from our landscape. the bells are gone, the dogs are barking, but so are the products made from the raw materials of the land: milk, meat, wool, leather. i think there's still a chance to save, at least in some areas, the breeding of these animals. if we do not at least do what the rapporteur proposes, we will see them in zoos. of course, if production is not profitable, we can buy raw materials in new zealand, australia or other countries. but we're trying to save our wildlife. sheep and goats belong to her. let's keep that in mind.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we are all here tonight from regions where there is a system of grazing and where there is a strong focus on the goat and sheep sector. that is why i think that we should report - and i shall do so - to mrs fischer boel and mrs androulla vassilliou everything that has been said in this house and all the requests that have been made by members. mr mcguinness, i understand perfectly well the position of parliament on the sensitive issue of labelling. i will refer - i repeat - the position which has been expressed by many members this evening to the commissioner responsible. i hope - and i understand the demands of parliament - that a positive solution can be found with commissioner fischer boel. i believe and hope that, at the end of the debate in parliament and in the council, the health assessment will provide an appropriate response to many of the concerns raised by the rapporteur and also raised by many members during this debate on the future of the caprine sector. the solution to some of these problems could be found in the near future. we are working on an agreement on the agricultural modalities of the doha development agenda which should be finalised before the summer break. and this should shed more light on the sensitive products issue raised by the rapporteur. we are open to any constructive suggestions on promotion, but as i have said, we have adhered to the principle of targeted support for community products of clearly identifiable quality. as regards another issue which has arisen in connection with the future of this sector, which i personally and the commissioners consider to be absolutely important for the economy of the european union, but especially for certain mountain regions with a particularly difficult hydrogeological system. i therefore wanted to give an answer on the question of setting up a group of representatives of the commission and the member states to follow developments in this sector. as regards the creation of such a group, it goes without saying that the comments and proposals coming from the member states and from stakeholders are always welcomed by the commission, which i believe should listen more and more to the requests coming from the whole of the european union. however, there are already several bodies within the commission with competence in this area. the management committee for sheep and goats shall issue opinions on legislation in this sector. the sheep and goat forecast group is composed of market experts and meets twice a year to discuss market trends and forecasts. the conclusions of these meetings are presented to the sheep and goat advisory group, which also meets twice a year and represents the whole chain from farmer to consumer. the latter group also discusses a wide range of topics that representatives may propose to be included on the agenda. it seems to me that the setting up of another working party would impose an additional administrative burden and would be a kind of duplication of the functions of the present management system, which would in fact be contrary to the objective of simplifying the cap. however, i am willing - and i think i can say this on behalf of commissioner fischer boel - to explore possibilities within the existing framework.
in writing. sheep farming is one of the livestock production sectors which is currently treated less seriously than pig or cattle farming. however, this sector is of particular importance for countries where the geographical conditions for beef production are very difficult or for regions where the population is historically linked to the production and consumption of lamb. we must ensure that this agricultural sector does not collapse. especially at a time when food prices are skyrocketing and we can't afford to limit production. i fully support the rapporteur's proposal to introduce additional payments to traditional mountain breeds to protect sheep in sensitive areas. i also support the proposal to mark lamb meat with the eu logo to distinguish it from products from third countries. we must help europeans to distinguish between good food and food that may not meet european standards.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. as we discussed yesterday, it's a particularly good time for our transportation discussion to have you here in your new role. we've been talking over the last few days about various elements that are going to improve people's safety on the road, are going to improve the quality of transport. two days ago we were talking about pedestrian and cyclist safety, and yesterday we were talking about dangerous goods and safe road systems. today we are talking about vehicles themselves, about how to make the vehicles our citizens drive on the roads of the european union as safe as possible. the aim is clear to us, the aim is to make european citizens move more easily, to make their lives more comfortable, but also to make them feel safer, so that we can use our regulations to tell the voters, to tell the people that we are bringing something concrete. this specific action by the european parliament underlines the importance not only of this house but also of the fact that european legislation, that the institutions of the european union bring something positive and concrete to the lives of each of us. let's remember that when we talk about the safe car initiative, we have to keep two elements in mind. the first is the car itself and all the systems that we're enumerating here: the speed control system, the stability control system, the vehicle-to-vehicle distance management system, all the assistance systems and the navigation systems. these are all very important components that enhance the very functioning of the instrument that is the vehicle for anyone on the road. but let us also remember, and this is rightly emphasized in the speeches, that for our citizens, for those who are on the road, the element of notification is also very important if a tragedy occurs, if an accident occurs, if an accident occurs. so that our citizens can be sure that with the technical devices, with the system that we're putting in place, help can come to them as soon as possible. these two elements are very important. both, that is, systems that are both efficient, that allow you to alert and help in the event of an accident, and systems that improve the vehicles themselves. when we talk about this report, which my political group supports, we must also bear in mind the limitations. first of all, when we talk about a smart car, we can't forget that a very important part of a smart car is a smart driver. and this is not trivial because this educational thread is very important. after all, we have seen time and again that technological progress has not led to improved safety. why would you do that? because better technology, faster vehicles, all of that made the driver feel more comfortable driving. better roads made him go faster. so this educational thread, showing what is the value of using modern technology, but also what are the limitations, how drivers should not abuse modern technology, which we also, i hope, will implement, is very important. the market element was also considered. because there is no guarantee that the regulations we put in place - good, useful, right, good for drivers - will immediately replace the car's rolling stock with those cars that we think are safer, more efficient, easier to operate. there's no guarantee, because there's obviously a barrier, like price. this barrier may result in the availability of such vehicles being significantly restricted. i am not in favour of systems that should pay extra, but it is also an intellectual challenge for the commission and for all of us to see how we can do this, not only to create safer vehicles, a better road system, but also to make sure that our citizens, the citizens of the european union, want to use them and have the financial means to do so. i would like to thank our rapporteur very warmly and once again warmly support this report.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the report by ms zita gurmai and its recommendations are another step towards improving road safety in the european union. most of us are users of vehicles that travel on these roads. they are increasingly equipped with technical devices catalysts, abs, asc, lights, seat belts and so on. but there's always a catch. most often, these electronic safety enhancement devices are installed in road vehicles that have passed safety tests, have crush zones, are equipped with many safety pads or special belts. these vehicles can withstand almost any kind of accident, but unfortunately, most of the vehicles on our roads are mid-range or low-cost cars. more importantly, their sales are still growing and as the automotive magazines say, it's about to be a tidal wave of these cars from india, china, etc. of course, the price comes with the quality and the equipment. a car that costs between two and five thousand euros has almost nothing but the engine, the steering wheel, the wheels, the seats, and maybe in some countries, one seat belt. he's more pleased that despite this situation, there are people who are trying to make us safer. prices are falling and the required equipment can be increased. it's not just seat belts or green engines. maybe in the future, there will be abs or stability control or asc. i would like to congratulate member of parliament, ms zia gurmai, on her groundbreaking report. i'm confident that despite the complex names and ways in which the devices operate, it will be met with widespread understanding and support. we are dealing with a huge number of fatalities and our political group will support this report, as well as the previous ones that our colleagues spoke about yesterday.
madam president! the challenge of equipping cars with electronic stability control systems and accident notification has become a challenge of the times. there are many reasons for this. the first is the need to improve the safety of vehicle and road users. there are 41,600 fatalities on european roads every year. the loss of health and disability of the next thousands of road users speaks to more than any of us can imagine. the death toll would be much lower if aid reached those in need in time, so the introduction of an accident notification system is another necessary solution. the third important factor that has a major impact on the number of accidents is the state of the roads. road investment is particularly necessary in the new member states and in lagging regions with poor infrastructure. the modernisation and expansion of the road network also requires attention to the surrounding area. roadside trees near the roads are also a major factor in the increase in road deaths. modernity in the automotive industry is not just about the safety of vehicles and people. it also reduces the harmful environmental impact of co2 emissions from cars. it is good that the rapporteur also sees this problem and many other issues. so i give her my full appreciation for a job well done. i can't agree with just the term "intelligent car". i agree with my predecessor, who said in his speech that this concept is reserved for the rational. if we accept this category of thinking, we will arrive at a situation where 'intelligent cars' will be driven by technically competent drivers. and with whom will we then conduct the educational activities so important in the context of improving road safety and using the new achievements of civilization?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to express my appreciation to zita gurmai, who, in addition to her intellectual contribution, has also made a number of promotional activities here, giving her all. i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur. we're talking about the smart car today. let's not get into whether the term "intelligent" is appropriate or not. yesterday we talked about the smart way, not calling it the smart way. yesterday we had a lot more objections than today. we understand each other much better today. there is, of course, the third factor, the intelligent driver. and what should that driver intelligence be based on? the first is that he wants to use a smart car. we should be convinced that we need some kind of economic calculation. how much pain are we willing to endure, how much time are we willing to spend in the hospital for the 1,000 euros we saved to buy a less technologically advanced car? and this awareness that this technologically advanced car and road can mean fewer accidents, less severe consequences of accidents, better quality of life, and that this can be within our reach, provided, again, that we realize whether it's worth saving 1,000 euros on this new technology.
madam president! i want to congratulate my colleague, zica gurmai, because she did a wonderful thing - a report that would have seemed very technical, very masculine - and she handled it and conducted it in an excellent way. we live in a society dominated by information technology. we have these devices with us from dawn to dusk. we soon realized that they made our lives easier. we quickly learned how to use them. it is therefore a good thing that, as part of this comprehensive strategy for the information society and the media, the european commission has found such a point of contact with what is very important to us, human safety and road safety, and has prepared the 'smart car' initiative. i like the term "intelligent car" and i have no objection to it because i understand that it is a metaphor. it's an interesting way of getting the attention of the public, of getting the attention of the media, of talking about the "smart car", not literally. for me, this name is a symbol of modern european transport, which is to become even safer, greener and more efficient thanks to new information and communication technologies. the intelligent car is designed to serve man first. the second is the environmental benefits, and the third is the improvement of european transport. i don't know if smart cars will require a lot of commercial promotion and advertising. man has a natural curiosity and a tendency to buy novelties, especially when they are affordable. i'm convinced that even if it's a little more expensive, every user buying this car will feel that they are investing in their own safety. i'm also of the opinion that he wouldn't mind spending a few euros to ensure that security. i just want to say that the user needs to not only know what's in the smart car, but to know how it works, to learn how to use the modern technology that is so often available to us formally, not used. i would like to see a 'smart car' that, as a safety measure, forces the user to not use a mobile phone and that the mobile phone in the car is installed in such a way that it does not distract the driver. one final point: even the most intelligent car, packed with state-of-the-art technology and equipment, will not meet our expectations if the driver fails and if the road system in europe is not as perfect as it is in some european union countries.
madam president! the upcoming eu-russia summit is an important event, which is why the discussion on the preparatory work in our parliament was so important. relations between the european union and russia are of paramount importance for stability, economic development and security in europe and the world. these relations took on a new dimension with the enlargement of the union to include 12 countries, mainly from central and eastern europe. countries that in the past were very strongly linked economically, politically and militarily with the former soviet union. so far, bilateral trade relations between individual countries have been transferred to the level of the union with russia. but russia often takes steps to get along with individual countries without the union. some special conditions for this bilateral cooperation are often proposed. russia is a large country with enormous political and military aspirations, and a wealth of energy resources that determine its position in europe and the world. russia's accession to the kyoto protocol makes it an important partner to be involved in climate change and environmental protection.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on the report by mr helmut markov on road safety infrastructure management. the report goes against the principle of subsidiarity: 'the larger communities should not take on what the smaller ones can bear.' it's a principle that must be guarded like the pupil of the eye. unfortunately, i have also seen this principle violated many times in this house. this time, i hope, we have partially defended that principle, but what a waste of time! our legislative work was not about making good laws, but about changing bad laws. but i have no illusions that this is not the last blow to the subsidiarity principle. paradoxically, these attacks are taking place in the same place where the most serious criticism is directed at ireland, a country that rejected the lisbon treaty a few days ago. it is not clear that the citizens of this country said no precisely because this principle is notoriously violated in the practice of the european union. and it is precisely this last example - the irish one - that should make us realize that subsidiarity must not be neglected, sacrificed in the name of supposedly higher objectives, such as road safety. because sooner or later, or rather sooner, he must take revenge.
in writing. − the report on the european charter of energy consumer rights, adopted today, significantly increases the rights of consumers in the field of energy. the level of information available to citizens will be increased, making it easier to choose between suppliers and different delivery options. the charter is a very important element of the liberalisation of the energy market. i am convinced that more clear and readable information will enable consumers to make the most favourable choices. this is particularly important as energy prices continue to rise and become a source of growing consumer concern. this will make it easier to compare offers and actual energy consumption, and will encourage consumers to switch suppliers if they are not satisfied with the service offered. this will result in genuine competition between energy suppliers, greater concern for customer satisfaction and thus greater indirect influence by consumers on the decisions of energy companies. i believe that the energy charter will slowly but surely bring about the energy market changes we have been waiting for. let us not forget that the most important element of the internal market is the consumers, who expect us to make real changes.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to emphasize once again that no western company is as closely tied to the state as gazprom is to the kremlin. at the moment, we are dealing with a cold political calculation. gazprom's energy dominance will lead to further increases in energy prices in europe. russia will be able to force even bigger political concessions for gas and oil supplies. the effects of the dearth are already being seen in the increasing number of protests in europe. we also have fresh memories of repeatedly turning the gas cap on our eastern neighbours. mr president, i supported this resolution because i believe that europe must begin to speak with one voice in its relations with russia, because only this will guarantee the eu's effectiveness.
in writing. − the complex relationship between the european union and russia requires well-run and consistent diplomatic efforts. the upcoming eu-russia summit is a very emotional one, as agreements of great importance to both russia and the european union are to be negotiated. on the eve of this summit, we must realise how important it is for the future of the european union that it speaks with one coherent voice on the international stage. it is therefore regrettable that the irish people in last week's referendum questioned the ratification of the lisbon treaty, which contains the provisions that will make the european union a reliable partner in international relations.
in writing. the 'smart car' initiative is extremely valuable. modern technologies should be widely used to improve and enhance transport safety. estimates suggest that if all cars were equipped with electronic stability control (esc), the number of fatalities in the eu could fall by as much as four thousand a year. the european-wide ecall in-vehicle accident notification system is a major safety boost, and one that has not yet been implemented everywhere. studies show that its introduction throughout the community could reduce the number of deaths by two and a half thousand per year. the last thing to note is the high carbon and greenhouse gas emissions from cars - 12% of the total co2 emissions in the eu. i think we should promote cars with the lowest co2 emissions, for example, through social campaigns. more stringent rules to limit the emission of harmful gases from cars should also be introduced.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think the attitude towards international aid in the event of disasters, disasters, shows what kind of country we are dealing with. and indeed, with hundreds of legitimate objections to china, we know that this country was able to open itself to international help in a dramatic moment. we also see how burma responded to international aid, including aid from european union member states. there was an american play called "a year from now". it's a bit like burma in our parliament. it's just that we meet every year and talk about the situation in burma. there's really no real, meaningful change. i agree with the facts that my esteemed predecessors have spoken about. the situation where a female opposition leader has been kept under house arrest for a dozen years is unprecedented on a global scale. let's not get used to this situation. i hope that despite the divisions in this parliament, we will take a united stand in defence of democracy in burma.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we've been covering the situation in burma here in strasbourg on thursday afternoons, actually, every month lately. i have before me today two reports which relate to the situation in burma. first, issued by the inter-parliamentary union and second, report of the united nations special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in burma. these reports are unequivocal: imprisonment of parliamentarians, assassinations, very bad conditions in prisons for political prisoners, a civilization catastrophe in this country. as the european parliament, we must have a very clear influence on the burmese authorities. and in order for that to change in the coming weeks and months, what is needed is the joint action of all the democratic parliaments around the world, and the cooperation of countries like india and china, and the influence of the burmese authorities, to actually make that change. i want to mention the fate of the parliamentarians who are in prison today in burma, those parliamentarians who were arrested in the autumn of 2007 and those parliamentarians who died, died, in unexplained circumstances, at the moment when they were detained, and also those parliamentarians who were attacked, who died in unexplained circumstances. the un rapporteur's report is unequivocal aung san suu kyi's immediate release is a prelude to talks with the burmese authorities on democratisation and improving the human rights situation in the country. the guarantee of freedom for political prisoners, and above all the immediate possibility of medical examination for these prisoners, is the fundamental issue that we must force on the burmese authorities.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. less than a year later, we are in our third round of discussions on the situation in burma, calling on the government of that country to respect human rights, basic standards of humane treatment of prisoners, pointing out irregularities, appealing, calling, lamenting, imposing sanctions and once again condemning the burmese regime. this one, in turn, has shown an astonishing resistance to all the pressure from the international community, ignoring the appeals, just not doing anything about it. that is why i am somewhat embarrassed to speak on burma. i see the impotence of not only our parliament and the european union but of virtually all bodies, including the united nations. that's why i think enough is enough. we should be very strong in demanding that diplomatic pressure be applied, that diplomatic channels be used by the council of the european union, by the member states, to force this regime to behave and be treated properly. i just want to appeal to the adoption of paragraphs 7 and 10 of the resolution, which call for a process of national reconciliation in this country.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's very rare that dictatorial regimes, regimes that use force, regimes that persecute people, have fallen only because of some sort of blanket diplomatic pressure. i, of course, agree with the grave envoy that pressure is necessary. such regimes can only fall if the internal situation leads to the regime losing those on whom it relies in its internal policy. and that is why all the diplomatic effort should go on the one hand towards supporting even a weak and rather invisible opposition, and on the other hand it would also be a solution if the international political organizations, if the international pressure was supported by force. i would therefore repeat once again that the european union should have its own police force to intervene in cases such as the one in burma.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the issue of human rights violations in burma has been discussed several times in the current term of office of the european parliament. unfortunately, the debates and the resolutions adopted do not change the political and social situation in this country, which has been ruled by the army since 1962 and is responsible for one of the largest political regimes in the world. for more than 40 years, thousands of people have been imprisoned in this country, which has experienced not only regime cataclysms, but also persecution and political convictions. burmese are forced to work, even children are conscripted into the army. the secretary-general of the national league for democracy has spent 13 of the last 18 years under house arrest as a political prisoner, and more recently 1,900 people have been arrested and held in conditions degrading to human dignity for merely expressing their desire for democracy in burma, or even for appealing for the humanitarian aid that was needed after the cyclone. the burmese government not only persecutes opposition figures, but also, in violation of human rights, prevents international humanitarian aid from reaching the affected areas after the cyclone, putting civilians at risk of loss of life, forcing cyclone victims to leave temporary camps and return to their homes destroyed by the cataclysm. appeals from the secretary-general of the united nations and other organizations result in more arrests and killings of this suffering population. we are naturally in favour of the resolution, which not only opposes the persecution of the nobel prize winner, but also calls for the release of the remaining political prisoners and for an investigation under the auspices of the un into the reported killing of prisoners by the burmese army during the recent cataclysm.
mr. chairman, please! it has been a year since the european parliament last adopted a resolution warning of the dramatic internal situation in burma. but the ruling military regime has made no progress on the road to democracy. the secretary general of the national league for democracy has spent the last 13 years under house arrest. like the nobel prize winner and the european parliament's sakharov prize winner, aung san suu kyi, who is being held without trial despite pressure from international organizations. nineteen hundred opposition political activists are being held in inhumane conditions in burmese prisons. the reports of 36 prisoners being murdered and 70 injured at rangoon penitentiary following the panic caused by the cyclone that hit burma in may this year are alarming. the ruling regime should lift any restrictions on freedom of expression and fundamental rights, including peaceful political activity, as soon as possible. burma has an obligation to provide assistance to the people affected by the cyclone and to allow free access to these areas for international humanitarian organisations. the strengthening of the current economic sanctions and controls on the junta's access to eu aid and increased political pressure from asean would certainly strengthen the chances of stabilising the situation in burma.
mr. chairman, please! about 1,900 people are being held in very poor conditions for expressing their support for the introduction of democracy in burma. dozens of protesters have disappeared without a trace. aung san suu kyi has been detained for 13 years without charge, which is against the law even in burma. dozens of other nargis victims were arrested for appealing for humanitarian aid, and prisoners in rangoon were fired upon when the cyclone hit the prison. we call on the burmese authorities to lift the restrictions on peaceful activities and to release political prisoners immediately. we expect an investigation into the murders of political prisoners after cyclone nargis hit.
mr. chairman, please! despite the great interest of the world, various international institutions and organizations in the situation in burma, there is no change in the situation inside the country. thousands of people are still being held in terrible conditions for calling for democracy or protesting against a constitutional referendum whose results cannot be considered credible. the military regime is tightening its grip on political prisoners. expectations that the burmese authorities will engage with the opposition and international organizations are unrealistic. it is therefore necessary to impose effective sanctions and pressure on the regime there, with as many countries as possible joining in.
mr. chairman, please! just eight days after the cyclone hit, the burmese government forced the nation, its own people, to participate in a referendum. a referendum on a widely criticized and controversial draft constitution. what's the score? absurd, as if taken alive from the old communist times: attendance 99%, support for the draft constitution 93%. it's not realistic in the model sense, because that's all we can think of it as. i believe deeply that regimes like the burmese regime must collapse sooner or later and the european union should help bring about that collapse.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the renewed fighting in somalia in recent days between the provisional federal government and the insurgents has claimed more than 100 lives and led to a mass exodus of civilians from the somali capital mogadishu. in somalia, human rights violations by all parties to the conflict, including torture, rape, murder and attacks on civilians, are a regular occurrence. the international community cannot remain indifferent to the open acts of violence in somalia. the european union must decisively step up its commitment to resolving the conflict in somalia and call on the parties to the conflict to take all possible steps to ensure unhindered access for humanitarian organisations to help the affected population of the country. the deployment of un peacekeepers until the political situation improves and the renewal of the un arms embargo against somalia would also be a step in the right direction.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a month ago, the world peace index was announced. it's a survey conducted annually in 140 countries by the institute for economics and peace. in that study, somalia was ranked the second most dangerous country in the world, right after iraq. the reality is sad. there is no progress in resolving this long-standing conflict, and the information that is coming in is frightening. i won't go through all of them here, but i will say that the somali pirates have hijacked 26 ships since the beginning of the year. in a conflict as hopeless as somalia's, any agreement between the parties must be treated with the appropriate consideration. let us hope that the agreement reached on 9 june with djibouti will be a turning point in the conflict and lead to a lasting peace.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. for years, somalia has been the scene of brutal fighting. in the last few days, the death toll has been estimated at around 100 people, with around 200 injured. thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes in mogadishu. the attacks on the people and the media are intensifying. nasteh dahir faraha, the vice president of the national union of somali journalists, was brutally murdered on june 7. aid workers are being murdered, including mohamed mahdi. the forced recruitment of children into armed forces is on the rise. 2.6 million somalis (about 35% of the population) are in need of humanitarian assistance. amnesty international reports on the drastic forms of attacks on the defenseless civilian population. teenage girls, women, often just have their throats slit by attackers. we call on the un security council to strengthen the peacekeeping force in somalia in accordance with the resolution adopted on 15 may and to strengthen the arms embargo against somalia.
mr. chairman, please! societies and states are particularly threatened by internal conflicts and civil wars, which lead to attacks and looting, to flight and forced displacement, to rape and torture and other atrocities. all of this is happening to civilians who are defenseless and often under attack from different sides of the conflict. despite the efforts of the un secretary-general, the african union and the support of the european union, the situation in somalia is so dire that it is being described as a humanitarian disaster. children who are involved in these fights are especially cruelly treated. it seems that the most effective way to prevent this disaster, this war, is to deploy international troops in somalia.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. but when we talk about violations of basic human rights in the world, we have to draw a line between these cases, namely, where we talk about unstable governments, civil wars, crimes committed in a state of absolute chaos, and situations like iran, where the state is relatively stable, there is no civil war, there are elections every now and then, and the state uses such criminal methods as execution of children. this is a very different case than the issues we are discussing, like the somalia or burma issues we are discussing today. this is not about some internal chaos, this is about another civilization. this is like huntington's book, "clash of civilizations", and it's like the great books of the great historian and philosopher felix konecki, who talked about the fundamental differences between civilizations. but if we want to solve these problems, we have to think about how to influence these regimes to change their minds.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i can understand, although i absolutely do not accept, that there are legal systems in the world that accept the death penalty, but i cannot imagine that even those who are in favor of the death penalty, especially in our cultural circles, would allow the possibility of imposing this punishment and executing it on children, on minors. and that's what's happening in iran. according to a recent amnesty international report, more than 100 minors are awaiting execution, and the number is probably not complete, as not all of these sentences are recorded. we are right to call on the political and judicial authorities of iran today to apply a moratorium on the death penalty. but we also have to ask ourselves the question: how do we judge the international community, how do we judge ourselves, if we cannot enforce the provisions of international treaties on minors sentenced to death? there is only one subtext, and that is the economic subtext, which unfortunately trumps the humanitarian subtext.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are taking this discussion today because of the threat of execution of four young people, because they are under 18 years old, people. this is not the first such decision by the iranian judiciary. iran is fortunately one of the few countries that imposes the death penalty on juveniles and, worse, executes them. moreover, over the past three years, more than two-thirds of all such sentences in the world have been in iran. it is outrageous that iran is so blatantly violating international conventions that it is a signatory to, which categorically prohibit such activities. so the question is a much more general one: does the international community have any mechanisms and instruments to deal with such countries? in other words, can breaches of voluntary commitments by a country result in any visible and tangible sanctions? this case raises two questions. first, it is necessary to pay attention to the often used term 'rule of law'. the conviction of young people for homosexual behavior can be in accordance with the law in iran - with the rule of law understood in this way - we cannot reconcile. secondly, if we demand that others observe the obligations and the reasonable law that is consistent with fundamental freedoms, then we ourselves should respect it. in this context, it is impossible not to recall our laziness, to use stronger words, when it comes to fulfilling the final verdict of the court and removing the iranian mujahideen from the list of terrorist organizations.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. life is the most precious possession of any human, and no one should deprive him of it under any circumstances. the extraction of testimony from minors by beatings and abuse to justify death sentences is particularly outrageous. among the countries where many executions (including juvenile executions) are carried out, iran is undoubtedly one of them. current information indicates that at least 85 juvenile offenders are awaiting execution in this country. it is high time that iran stopped this practice and adopted the legal standards that other countries have already accepted. young people are to be educated, not killed.
mr. chairman, please! since 1990, at least 430 executions of juvenile offenders have been carried out in iran. the death penalty for children is a disgrace to adults. every crime committed by a minor is the result of failure to educate adults. to shift the responsibility for one's own guilt or incompetence onto a minor, to use inhuman punishments against children, including the death penalty, is a crime. in iran, executions are carried out on girls as young as ten years old. the death sentences of juveniles are contrary to the international obligations of the islamic republic of iran. the iranian authorities should immediately stop the killing of minors in the name of inhuman law.
mr. chairman, please! it seemed that after robert hughes published "fatal shore", a book in which he described the british crown's sending, and therefore the courts, including parents and also young children to australia, that this would never happen again. it turns out that a century or a century and a half later, we have this in iran, an islamic country, where on the one hand, they take care of their family, because it shows. there's more barbarism going on there than you can imagine. if we don't defend these children, if we don't boycott the regime, if we don't condemn it as much as possible in the world, then we will be judged to have a closed eye, to be silent and not to defend human life.
mr. chairman, please! last week, silvana koch-mehrin, an mep for the german fdp, suggested that if poland refused to ratify the lisbon treaty, it should be excluded from the union. this scandalous statement was a comment on the polish president's announcement that he would not sign the treaty after the fiasco of the referendum in ireland, because it would be pointless. in accordance with union law, unanimity is required in this respect. the member's absurd statement is part of the shameful tradition in this house of ignoring the will of the european peoples, which is a great threat to the foundations of democracy. the lack of respect for the irish referendum result and now the call for poland to be excluded from the union are proof of this. the countries that are based on community law are to be punished simply because they comply with the law. this is the true face of the union today. from here, it's just a step to totalitarianism. the european parliament has a duty to protect the european union's citizens. more respect for the will of those who elected us. we're supposed to be doing their will, not the other way around. let's remember that!
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in belarus, a country bordering the european union, with great concern. the country's parliament recently passed a very restrictive law on freedom of speech, which could further limit the already narrow margin of free speech in the country. it only needs to be signed by the dictator, mr. lukashenko, and that's a formality. the very repressive nature of this law will hit independent journalists and publishers hardest. this is clearly a gag for the free media in this country, for independent public opinion, for the nascent civil society. in this situation, the european parliament must remind us of the basic standards that apply on our continent, of which the republic of belarus is a geographical part. we should do so all the more so since our parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the belarusian journalists' association three years ago.
mr. chairman, please! a few months ago, we had a debate in this room about the situation at the gdańsk shipyard. the representatives of all groups drew attention to the need for european shipyards to compete effectively with other shipyards on the world market, in particular with the korean shipbuilding industry. they stressed that the closure of two of gdańsk shipyard's three berths would exclude it from this competition and deprive it of its chance of survival. we are in strasbourg, the city that symbolizes european integration. it costs hundreds of millions of euros a year to maintain this symbol as the seat of the european parliament, but we respect it. the gdańsk shipyard is a symbol of the fall of communism and of the integration between western and central-eastern europe. it would be good if this symbol remained a living economic organism, a place of work for thousands of workers. this is what the shipbuilders who recently demonstrated in brussels were demanding from the european commission.
madam president! a few weeks before the beijing olympics, new tang dynasty television, the only independent news station, stopped covering china. although the situation has been going on for several weeks, it is not known what caused the failure, which is cited by satellite operator eutel communications. and we don't know when the malfunction will be fixed. but it is clear who benefits and who loses from this failure. millions of current subscribers to an independent, non-profit, chinese- and english-language television network are being sentenced to censorship by the chinese authorities, and can learn from the news how bravely the chinese military is fighting the tibetan terrorists. they won't hear about the strikes and the riots and the problems that are going on with the olympics. we, the people, the representatives of the european union, treat china with the respect that this great nation, which has made such a great contribution to the heritage of all humanity, undoubtedly deserves. it's a pity that in return for this respect, we are treated by the authorities in beijing with utter disrespect. we should expect the same rules and obligations from ourselves and our chinese partners.
madam president! the polish president has decided not to sign the law ratifying the lisbon treaty, declaring it a dead treaty if the irish reject it in a referendum. the polish president thus recalled a fundamental principle of the functioning of the european union, namely that treaties only enter into force when they have been adopted by all the members of the european union. the application of this principle has been obvious up to now and has been applied since the french and dutch rejected the constitutional treaty. at that time, despite the progress made in the ratification process of the treaty in many countries, the constitutional treaty was considered dead. unfortunately, both after the irish referendum and after the polish president's decision, there were voices in the european union, from prominent politicians, demanding that poland ratify this document, which is a denial of the essence of european democracy. i would like to protest strongly against these voices of pressure and blackmail.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. at the beginning of our mandate, we all fought for more money to help the european union do its job. unfortunately, when adopting the 2007-2013 budgetary perspective, the european council did not consider it appropriate to increase the level of the union budget. we've already had the fatal consequences of that decision. in addition to the tasks arising from the lisbon strategy, our other joint activities have recently increased. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take on the challenge of the single market. we've had problems with funding galileo, and now we're going to have problems with funding galileo, and it's going to be on a much larger scale. why set high goals when you know that you won't have the resources to finance them now? the reduction in the resources for the common agricultural policy, the use of these funds for other purposes, will soon be exhausted, and what will happen to the programmes that have been started? the member for jutta haug has had a very difficult task to fulfil our expectations, even in part. so i congratulate you on all the hard work you've put in and i hope there aren't too many amendments.
madam president! i want to focus on four issues in this debate. the level of appropriations for commitments in the 2009 budget is 1.04% of gdp and for payments only 0.9% of gdp, a decrease of up to 3,3% compared to payments in 2008. with such a small budget, it will be difficult to implement the priorities formulated by both the european commission and parliament, especially since these priorities are clearly increasing year by year. thirdly, the measures in title iv under the prominent title 'the union as a global partner' are of particular interest, being only 1.8% higher than in 2008, although it has been known for years that this title is permanently underfunded. fourthly, the modest increase in appropriations in title iv is all the more puzzling, given that title iv contains appropriations for food aid provided by the union to developing countries and that the prices of basic agricultural raw materials have risen by several dozen per cent in the last few months alone. finally, i would like to congratulate the author, mrs haug, on a very insightful report which once again shows the unfortunately largely accounting approach of both the commission and the council in the budgetary process.
madam president! annual budgets are a kind of compromise between the achievement of the strategic objectives set out in the multiannual financial perspective and the current political and economic situation, and in particular the need to deal with unforeseen market situations. this is what we are facing today: there is a high increase in energy prices, including fuel, and we have clear symptoms of a global food crisis, and there is also an increase in food prices. what action does the commission envisage and how much budget can we allocate to counteracting this difficult current situation so that the crisis does not get worse? we've been working on an energy and climate package for many years, and this is very important. but is this objective reflected in the financial priorities of the 2009 budget? in 2009, there are elections for the european parliament. we will have to answer to society for the way in which taxpayers' money has been spent, insofar as it has been consistent with the aims and needs of europe and its people.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the market for large aircraft manufacturers has become virtually bi-polar over a number of years. it's ruled by airbus and boeing. for two years now, we have been witnessing the world trade organization's handling of the european-american dispute over subsidies to these two powerful corporations. it's about big money and - perhaps most of all - ambition to lead the world in cutting-edge technology. the americans accuse airbus of taking advantage of large subsidies and favourable loans from the governments of the eu countries. the european union also raises serious concerns about the huge public subsidies that boeing receives in the form of tax breaks from illinois, kansas, washington, and the military and nasa in the context of public procurement. i fear that victory in this dispute will be pyrrhic. both companies benefit from public aid, the legality of which is questionable. but let's remember that they are the only manufacturers of large passenger aircraft in the world. they compete with each other, but they also have to work together to apply the best design and technology solutions. it's all for the passengers. i think we need more partnerships and negotiations, because there is a place in the global market for both airbus and boeing. my projection is that in 15 years, the world will need about 36,000 modern, safe civilian aircraft. the big ones, maybe 1,500. it's hard to say who will win, boeing or airbus, but let's also remember that russia is starting to count in this market, which also has government subsidies.
mr. chairman, please! the entry into force of new rules on the use of artificial additives (enzymes, flavourings) in foodstuffs will not only harmonise the legal framework in this area, but will also contribute to the protection of consumer health and facilitate the marketing of food throughout the european union. the harmonisation of the use of enzymes in the union is supported by the european food industry, which is concerned not only to harmonise the rules but above all to maintain consumer confidence in its products. as a consumer, i want to be sure that the food i buy is safe. the hundreds of artificial additives and thousands of flavorings that are now on the market for food additives cannot harm our health. the quality requirements must be such that safety is fully maintained. it is important that food retains its natural character as much as possible.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, the european commission's efforts to harmonise the authorisation procedures for food additives enzymes and flavourings in the european union and, in particular, to increase the transparency of these procedures should be supported. secondly, the authorisation procedures should aim at the maximum protection of the health of the consumer. he should be convinced that both the european and national institutions are on the lookout for the best possible protection of his health and that their functioning ensures that he is provided with healthy, natural and safe food. finally, thirdly, the rules on the provision of full information to the consumer on the food additives contained therein should be respected. the information on this should be clearly indicated on the packaging and should be formulated in a way that is clear and understandable to the consumer.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european parliament's values are pluralism and respect for diversity. this is because the european union as such should be one in diversity. the european parliament should therefore not only respect but even encourage the diversity of the political map, the multi-facetedness. while we are rightly defending the rights of ethnic, religious, sexual minorities, we should also remember the rights of political minorities. any manipulation or politically motivated amendment of the european parliament's rules of procedure will clearly limit the role of the european parliament as the representative of the societies and communities of the whole of the european union. we do not see the need to tamper with the points in the rules of procedure of the european parliament which refer to the number of countries whose representatives form a political group. the current status is satisfactory. today, the european parliament is working effectively, and as the chinese proverb says, "better with the enemy than with the good". the number of six countries is sufficient in this context and should not be replaced by the number of seven. this can only lead to an increase in the number of members who are not aligned, often totally, and who are extremely different from each other. such a change, as well as raising the threshold for the creation of a political group to 30, could indeed damage pluralism, freedom of expression, the representativeness of the european institutions and our credibility as representatives of the european parliament. such changes do not build the image of the authority of the european parliament in an election year, which i think is particularly important in terms of turnout in these elections. these changes should not come into force in 2009 or at any time, and i say this as a representative of a group that would be fine with them even if they did come into force.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? we are having a debate today which is specific because it is a debate based directly on the requests of ordinary citizens of the european union. i welcome to the gallery those who are the authors of the petition that has become the basis of our debate today. there is mr. krzysztof mączkowski, a representative of many environmental societies, and i believe you are mrs. morkunaite from lithuania. the petition was signed by nearly 30,000 people. those signatures are still pouring in to the petitions committee. this debate is undoubtedly being watched today by tens of millions of people, by the public opinion of all the baltic countries. the history of this petition in the european parliament was that first we had a series of whole debates on this in the committee on petitions. these debates were based on a very suggestive presentation made by the petitioners. we've had five of these debates. we also had a public hearing. during this public hearing, world-renowned experts pointed out and supported what the petitioners had said: the threat to the baltic's natural environment is immense and it is questionable whether it is worth the risk of such a large investment. at the same time as this discussion was taking place in the committee on petitions and when the european parliament agreed to put this matter to the public debate which is taking place today, there were also debates on the opinion in the itre and afet committees. in the committee on petitions and in both committees, the texts submitted for approval by the committee on petitions received ninety per cent support. and then, all of a sudden, there was a tremendous amount of activity by the opponents and critics of this report and of the report itself. suddenly, 180 amendments flooded the committee on petitions and almost all of them were rejected. the same thing happened in the opinion committees. it was an unprecedented offensive, let's face it, against nord stream. we got the voting guidelines prepared by nord stream, it was in the petitions committee. i have been here in the european parliament for four years and this is the first time i have seen a lobbyist telling meps how to vote and introducing amendment after amendment: abstain here, vote yes here, vote no here. our debate today is based on 40 different opinions and expertise. we have three sides to the dispute: ordinary citizens of the union, the large political and economic capital involved and the european parliament. the european parliament must today speak out on behalf of the ordinary citizens of the union. let us take as a lesson what happened with the referendums in france, the netherlands and ireland. we want to build the trust of ordinary citizens in the european union and i hope that this will be the attitude of all members of this parliament. i would like to thank those who have made a significant contribution to the debate we have today. i would like to thank mrs foltyn-kubicki, who has prepared a wonderful exhibition here in the european parliament on the baltic, mr cashman, who is the first vice-chairman of the committee on petitions, and mr beazley, who is the chairman of the baltic intergroup in the european parliament. i would also like to thank the secretariat of the committee on petitions, including david lowe, karen chioti and silvia cannalire, and those who advised, helped and collaborated with me: simon szynkowski, norbert napieraj, wojciech danecki, witold ziobrze and michał krupiński. these are the people who have contributed the most to this work.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not surprised by the russians, because they're not in the european union and they have an economic interest in building a pipeline on the bottom of the baltic and making themselves independent of the middlemen. what the german federal government is doing in berlin is a scandal and a breach of european solidarity. the germans, who are behind the european union project and, more recently, the eu constitution, seem to be very selective about the word 'community'. we can't agree to that. mr president, as the most important german in the european union, you have done nothing about this. instead of going to the meetings of your comrades, why don't you see to it that no one antagonizes the peoples of europe?
mr president, the nord stream baltic pipeline has been a controversial project since the day the former german chancellor took a senior executive position in the company managing the venture. it has raised justified concerns about energy security issues in several countries around the baltic sea. it has become a classic example of the principle of european solidarity gone wrong. there can surely be no doubts regarding the geopolitical importance to russia of the nord stream project. however, it is not these issues we are debating today. today we are discussing another very important aspect of nord stream’s pipeline: its environmental impact. i was, therefore, very surprised that commissioner dimas first stressed the importance of the energy supply and business aspects of the project, only later referring to the environmental impact. i would have expected a different set of priorities from the commissioner for the environment. we all agree that the baltic sea is a unique and fragile environmental environment. numerous experts share the concerns of petitioners and are rightly suspicious of an environmental impact report penned by nord stream’s experts. please note that the very countries around the baltic sea which feel the non-environmental threats of the pipeline most keenly will also suffer any environmental damage directly. adoption of amendments that play down the environmental threats will, frankly speaking, add insult to injury.
mr. chairman, please! the northern gas pipeline and the european union's approach to the northern gas pipeline is for me a test of the quality of the european community, of whether the european union is really acting on the principle of solidarity. it's also a test of environmental attitudes. if in much smaller projects with much less risk to nature and people, several alternative projects are required to choose the most optimal one, then in this powerful project, which can potentially be a strong risk not only to nature but also to people, the more should the designers be asked to choose several alternative solutions and only from these few alternative solutions should the most beneficial and least harmful to people and the environment be chosen. it's strange that with this huge project, such a road was abandoned.
mr. chairman, please! the planned northern gas pipeline, linking russia and germany, is set to be the longest undersea two-channel gas pipeline in the world, and also the shallowest, making it particularly vulnerable to damage. there is no doubt that the scale of long-term works in the vast baltic sea area poses a serious threat to the natural environment, biodiversity and habitat, to the safety and smoothness of navigation and, in the event of an ecological disaster, to the health of the baltic sea region's population. under the espoo convention and due to the serious environmental risks, alternative pipeline routes that do not affect the marine environment, in this case onshore pipeline routes, should be considered as a priority. the investment in the baltic sea is not a bilateral matter between germany and russia, because in the event of an ecological disaster all the baltic states will suffer. such a major project should only be undertaken in the spirit of european solidarity and with the agreement of all the baltic states after a thorough and independent environmental impact assessment of the pipeline has been carried out.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking the author of this report, mr libicki, who prepared it under very difficult circumstances, facing very strong lobbying by the representatives of the consortium building this controversial project. i hope that the final shape of this report will prove that the days when lobbyists had a huge influence on the shape of the law in the european union are gone. turning to the substance, i would like to stress that the european union, regardless of the project that directly affects its members, should apply objective environmental standards. today's report is a test of that objectivity. the construction of nord stream, as we all know, will have a catastrophic impact on the baltic sea environment. we cannot allow such a dangerous investment to be carried out on the territory of the european union without the consent of a quarter of its members. our aim should be to reach a consensus, not to force the giant energy companies to pursue environmentally dangerous and economically dubious projects against the will of the eu member states. the nord pipeline is uneconomical more than three times more expensive than the land investment. the latest estimates put the cost at several billion euros. the alternative land pipeline is about three billion euros. this means that the gas being shipped will have to have a higher price, which will immediately increase the cost of importing gas for the whole european union. the second aspect of this highly controversial investment is the european union's energy security. nord stream will seriously compromise that security. the european union should respond to russia's actions by expanding the access of its member states to oil and gas resources in central asia, rather than becoming even more dependent on gas supplies from gazprom, as is currently the case. the kremlin's actions are designed to prevent the diversification of gas supplies in europe, and that is precisely what nord stream is for. a project, as i mentioned earlier, with absolutely no economic justification. the construction of nord stream demonstrates the kremlin's ability to monopolize the gas market in europe. at the same time, the problems with the european nabucco project are an example of the union's inability to guarantee its own energy security. at this point, the question arises: why is germany - a country that not so long ago was a staunch supporter of freedom and security for the countries of the former eastern bloc - now taking action that puts these countries at risk of losing their sovereignty again? by supporting the kremlin's efforts to achieve total energy dominance in eastern europe, germany is exposing these countries to the possibility of russian political blackmail. i call on all the groups in this house to support today's report because of the possibility of avoiding a major ecological disaster and because of the right of all coastal countries to give their consent to such investments. what the european union needs at this moment is solidarity in every aspect, both energy security and environmental protection.
mr. chairman, please! over the past 12 months, i have asked the commission a number of questions on this subject, and i have always received general and vague answers. in this debate, i would like to draw attention to three points. in principle, all the baltic countries have serious objections to this investment, anticipating its negative impact on the natural environment of the baltic sea basin. secondly, the cost of the investment, which even the investor believes is rising rapidly, was originally estimated at eur 4,5 billion, but now stands at eur 812 billion. you could say that this is an investor problem, but as a result, these costs will be passed on to gas consumers in the future. this is all the more puzzling when there are alternative land-based pipeline routes that are two to three times cheaper. thirdly, it is an investment which is directly in line with the idea of a common energy policy for the european union. it is difficult to imagine the realization of this idea in the future in a situation where the gas pipeline investment (...) (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to reply to commissioner dimas, who has focused on the political and economic aspects, rather than the environmental ones. we all know that russia has no intention of applying the principle of reciprocity in terms of investment in the energy market. at best, it will regulate access to its market, throwing out any european investor at any moment. therefore, economically, the nord stream project strengthens russia's position and is detrimental to europe. we all know that russia has no intention of giving up its use of energy as a tool of political pressure. today, this is mainly the case in ukraine. the nord stream project will make every eu country open to this kind of pressure, to blackmail. we expect the negative position of the baltic states to be taken into account. commissioner dimas may disregard these considerations. we can even use european funds to finance this project. but don't be surprised if more and more groups of european citizens turn their backs on the process of integration. some people will say it's a project they don't care about, and others will say it's a project that's just harmful.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the speakers in today's debate for their interesting views. it is true that i referred to the public hearing which the committee on petitions had requested in january, where both i and my colleague, commissioner piebalgs, responsible for energy, spoke, and i repeated what had been said about the need for gas imports, as my colleague mr piebalgs said. i also referred to decision 1364/2006 of the european parliament and of the council, according to which the guidelines identified a number of priority projects, including this one as a project of european interest. you made that decision, not me! so do not criticize me for putting more emphasis on economic issues! i referred to exactly what has been decided by you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that's what concerns me. so i'm going to ask you to pay a little bit more attention, not just to one-sixth of my speech, but to the next five-sixths. concerns about the environmental impact of projects of such a large scale, importance and technical complexity are of course entirely legitimate. they suggest that the general public is increasingly involved in discussions on sustainable development and environmental protection in relation to major infrastructure projects. however, both the environmental impact and the opinions of the public and the environmental authorities are the subject of the environmental impact assessment, which is provided for in the relevant legislation on environmental impact assessments, the community directive and the espoo convention, which, as i said before, russia has signed, has not ratified, has said it will implement. i hope he punishes her. we have always pressed third countries to ratify environmental agreements. the results of environmental impact procedures must be carefully assessed by the authorities responsible for granting the planning permission or building permits for any type of infrastructure project. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental aspects of the report are not overlooked. however, for example, the report refers to the threat of large-scale pollution from the discharge into the baltic sea of thousands of tonnes of chemicals needed to treat the pipeline before it is put into operation. the report also contains a list of substances that may be used in the manufacture of certain chemicals. however, it appears that the contractor confirmed in february 2008 that it does not intend to use these chemicals in the pressure tests of the pipeline before it is put into operation. that doesn't mean the problem won't exist. other chemicals are likely to be used. but it does mean that we must wait for the completion of the environmental impact assessment process, as provided for by law, to be able to discuss compliance with community legislation and policy, the impacts, the risks, the measures and to decide on the conditions to be imposed on the project owner. the transparency requirements foreseen in the environmental impact assessment process ensure that all interested parties, including the european parliament, will have access to all relevant information. it is interesting that from many quarters today it was heard that the commission should have more powers either to make environmental impact studies or to enforce various policies. the commission has specific responsibilities; has neither the means nor the competence for studies and environmental assessment studies; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the role of the commission, as stated in the treaty, is to ensure that member states correctly apply and fully respect all the rules of community law, including international agreements ratified by the community. the commission may only intervene if it has serious grounds for believing that there have been breaches of relevant legal obligations under community law, including european union environmental law. at present, there is no indication of this, as the environmental impact assessment process is still ongoing. i can assure you that the commission will not hesitate to intervene whenever necessary. finally, i can only reiterate here that the commission expects the member states to comply fully with their obligations under community law. this is a basic condition for any final approval decision. i thank you again and i thank mr libicki for his report and for the opportunity he has given us to discuss this very important issue of the pipeline and the environmental impact it is likely to have. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? thank you very much to everyone who spoke. i must say, i'm proud to be sitting in this courtroom. this chamber has today spoken with the voice of the people - which is not always the case in parliament - the voice of the people, as in the best traditions of europe, the european parliaments, which were created to present the opinion of the people to the great men of the world, have spoken. i'm not going to let you get away with this. you're the big man in the world today. listen to the voice of the people who have spoken today with the voice of these parliamentarians. almost everyone agreed that this pipeline is not only a threat to the environment, but that it will destroy the environment, first by construction, and then, god forbid, by a gigantic catastrophe. there's been all sorts of opinions on that, but mr. dimas didn't address it. why not build an onshore pipeline, three times cheaper and safer? the european commission is silent. that's the voice that was in that discussion. there's been talk that nord stream is a state-owned company, that it's a big political plan. there were voices that this is politics. yes, that's the policy of nord stream and its owner, the kremlin. it has been said here in this chamber that european solidarity is needed. i don't know why they've made an amendment to delete the paragraph about solidarity. this is the test of european solidarity, as was said here a moment ago. why don't you just mention the costs that will be passed on to the consumer? it's been said here. the test now is whether the great men of this world, or the great men of the union to which you belong, will listen to the voice of the people as the great men of the past have listened to the voice of parliaments. but if they didn't listen, it didn't end well. we remember examples from history, which i won't quote, that when the great of this world didn't want to listen to the voice of the people, it ended badly. and now, the french, dutch and irish referendums have been such a test. consider this a warning. let the great men of this european union remember who they are supposed to serve, so that this doesn't end badly.
in writing. i would like to thank the chairman of the ep's committee on petitions, mr marcin libicki, for taking up a subject which raises a great deal of concern. it was more than 30 000 concerned citizens of the union who asked for help in connection with the proposed baltic gas pipeline. it is a pity that those who are going to undertake this investment have not yet provided an environmental impact assessment. but it's supposed to be the world's longest undersea structure, 700 miles. we're talking about an ecological and economic issue. of course, one cannot help but notice the "political sauce" in which all of this has been placed. the route of the pipeline is to pass through both natura 2000 sites and the deposits of sunken munitions and poison gases from wartime. we therefore need to have a robust analysis that takes into account the risks in four situations: the construction of a gas pipeline, its normal operation, critical situations (catastrophe), in the state of dismantling an exhausted network or the termination of supply contracts. we have no reliable analysis of this project, and yet virtually every construction project is required by law to determine its environmental impact. this is not just a matter between two countries, germany and russia. this case is also an example of the lack of european solidarity in the field of energy. so let's hear it for our concerned citizens. they sense that something is "wrong".
in writing. the baltic gas pipeline has several dimensions, including economic, environmental, energy and political. except for the energy dimension, none of the others are defending themselves. it is much more economical and three times cheaper to build a pipeline overland rather than under the sea. from an ecological point of view, the construction of the undersea pipeline threatens to bring disaster to the entire baltic sea basin and beyond. no one has fully investigated this threat and cannot predict its effects. from a political point of view, it is beneficial for russia and entails conflict within the european union and a violation by germany of the eu principles of partnership and solidarity. in this situation, the specific report by mr marcin libicki should be accepted and taken into account in the decision-making process.
on paper. the debate on the report by mr libicki shows almost complete unanimity in the assessment of the nord stream project. it is economically unviable, it threatens to include horrendous costs in future gas prices, it is an environmental threat to the baltic states, and it increases the dependence of some member states on supplies from russia. so you have to ask, cui bono? the vote was taken by mr matsakisa, who announced that he would vote against the report and called for "honesty". it's really hard to understand how congressman matsakis understands the concept of honesty. the vote on this report will be a test of whether the european parliament is really guided by the opinions of economists, environmentalists and ordinary citizens of the union, or by the pressure of the german-russian lobby, which wants to limit the energy and environmental security of some member states and to break the solidarity of the union.
acting president of the council. - mr president, it is a great honour for me and a great emotion to speak before the european parliament for the first time. before i begin, i would like to join mr brie in strongly condemning on behalf of the presidency the attack on the indian embassy in kabul yesterday, which killed more than 40 civilians, including embassy staff, and injured several hundred others. this attack is aimed at destabilising the consolidation and reconstruction process under way in afghanistan. the european union remains fully committed to supporting the afghan government and people in their efforts to build a stable and democratic state, and these tragic events demonstrate the importance and urgency of our discussions this morning. the council, like parliament, is convinced of the need for a long-term commitment in afghanistan. our aim must be to help the government develop the structures of a modern and democratic state that can function and ensure the security of its citizens, respect the rule of law and promote economic and social development. i have to say that the combined efforts of the afghan authorities and the international community have made impressive progress which needs to be better publicized: a 25% drop in infant mortality, 6 million children in school, one third of them girls, and i pay tribute to the work done by commissioner ferrero-waldner and the commission in general in this area and in all that relates to the restoration of the rule of law. we must build on these successes, but we must also be aware of the importance of the challenges that remain, in particular, as mr brie has stressed, those of governance, insecurity, corruption and drugs, which feed off each other and which undermine the normal functioning of the institutions and the sustainable development of this country. we must therefore, together with our other partners in the field of drugs, contribute to the implementation of security council resolution 1817, adopted on 11 june, which is intended to enable the international community to make progress in the fight against the trafficking of chemical precursors used in the manufacture of heroin. the council, like parliament, attaches the utmost importance to the democratic process in afghanistan. in the 2004 and 2005 elections, the afghan people made their choice for democracy and stability very clear and very strong, and we must help them prepare for the next elections in the best possible way: the presidential elections in 2009 and the legislative elections in 2010. the council has read with great interest the report on afghanistan, which was presented by parliament and summarized by mr brie, and wishes to stress three particular aspects. the first is that the council wants the afghan government to take a greater share of responsibility in the process of reconstruction and development in afghanistan. the afghans should be encouraged to take responsibility in all areas and there should be guarantees of good governance, hence the accountability of the afghan authorities in this area. secondly, the council stressed the importance of moving in close consultation with the afghan government towards a unity of view within the international community in pursuit of common objectives, in particular by ensuring consistency of action between their military and civilian dimensions. this is the mandate given to the new special representative of the un secretary-general, mr kai eide, and the council expresses its full support for him in the fulfilment of his mission. it is also in this context that the council considers it necessary to strengthen the capacity of the un assistance mission in afghanistan (unama) in order to extend its presence to the whole territory, and in particular to the south and west of the country. finally, the third point we wish to make about mr brie's report is that a strengthening of cooperation and relations between afghanistan and its neighbours is essential for the lasting stabilisation of that country, given, of course, the multidimensional nature of certain problems that mr brie has highlighted, in particular the production and trafficking of drugs. in any event, these few comments on the report presented by parliament cannot hide the very close general agreement between the council and parliament on the policy to be pursued in afghanistan, and i take this opportunity to welcome and encourage the initiative presented in mr brie's report, which aims at strengthening cooperation between the european parliament and the afghan parliament. for all these reasons, the union will continue to act and play a major role in mobilising the international community in support of afghanistan. this was the guiding principle behind the council conclusions of 26 may, which were largely inspired by the work carried out at the international conference on support for afghanistan, held in paris on 12 june. this conference was a great success for afghanistan. it is also important for the european union, which was able to make its views fully known on issues essential for the proper development of this country. i should remind you that a few months earlier, on the occasion of the nato summit in bucharest from 2 to 4 april, the high representative for the common foreign and security policy attended, together with president karzai and the un secretary-general, the meeting of heads of state and government on afghanistan. the countries contributing to the isaf, of which the eu member states provide almost half of the personnel, have adopted a renewed strategy for their joint commitment based on four principles, which i would like to recall: a joint commitment over time, the objective of gradual afghan ownership of security responsibilities, a comprehensive approach of the international community to reconstruction and a shared political strategy involving afghanistan's neighbours and, in particular, pakistan. in conclusion, i would like to return to some areas where the european union is making a significant contribution and where its action is essential to strengthening state capacity and consolidating the rule of law in afghanistan. firstly, as you know, the union has had a special representative since 2002. the post is currently held by mr francesc vendrell. the logistical difficulties encountered in the initial setting up of eupol have now been overcome. eupol is particularly involved in reforming the ministry of interior and in defining a strategy for the afghan police. finally, i would like to point out that by deciding at the last general affairs and external relations council on 26 may to double the size of its police mission in afghanistan, the european union sent a clear message to its afghan partners and to the international community that it was strengthening its commitment in afghanistan. this increase in the size of eupol should allow us to be more visible and effective, despite the violent events that have taken place in recent days in key areas of police reform.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president of the council, mr jean-pierre, honourable members of this parliament, and mr rapporteur! i should like to begin by saying a few words in german, and thank you for your really important and good report, but also for the excellent cooperation with my colleagues in both kabul and brussels. i would also like to add my support to what you and the president-in-office of the council have said. it is a great tragedy that yesterday such an accident happened again, such a terrorist attack. we are thinking of a clear condemnation on the one hand, but also of the victims on the other. this is the context in which this debate unfortunately has to take place. let me say that i think this very comprehensive report is very important in this difficult and precarious security situation and we cannot, and will not, allow those who wish to take afghanistan backwards to prevail. over the last few months, and particularly during the preparation of this report, we have been working very closely with the rapporteur. i wanted to thank you for your interest as witnessed, first, by the two visits the european parliament has made there and, second, in november 2007, when you again received parliamentarians from the wolesi jirga in brussels, which was an important sign for them. we have worked with a dedicated delegation for relations with afghanistan; you are following developments on the ground very closely, and we try to help where we can. finally, your report addresses the central issue: how can we stabilise afghanistan, what are the challenges facing the international community, and how can we deal with them? in the same spirit, at the important conference in paris we said clearly that we want to overcome the threat of terrorism; but, at the same time, we also have a challenge in our public opinions everywhere, because they do not always appreciate the challenges, and do not always embrace all the efforts that it takes to combat this threat. i think the paris conference was a very important and good opportunity to review our strategy, to focus it even more clearly. the commission has committed eur 1.2 billion from 2002-2007. we have worked particularly on the following: firstly, providing better security in afghanistan by financing police salaries, closely linking this to support for afghanistan's police and its reform; secondly, providing alternative livelihoods to the opium poppy and thus helping to eradicate drugs; thirdly, improving the lives of afghans - we have focused here particularly on health care, where we have already been part of the undeniable success of recent years, and i would also say that we have worked on infrastructure and regional integration with transit links, such as the important road from jalalabad to kabul. however, the paris conference also delivered a distinct political message about overdue changes. these changes are indispensable if we want to realize mutual obligations under the afghanistan compact and turn international efforts all our efforts into success on the ground. therefore, we all know that more and better coordination is needed among all the actors involved. i can also praise mr kai eide, whom i have known for many years, who is an excellent person. he will play a central role and i can assure you we will all work with him very closely. but, of course, we also see the necessity for a genuine commitment by our afghan partners. they really have to go for more ownership in their state-building process, and this comes, of course, with its own responsibility and with a vision for a stable country for the future. we are heading towards the elections in 2009 and 2010; undoubtedly for the government it will be crucial to regain legitimacy, which has been dented by corruption and weak governance, notably in the provinces, and therefore we are looking into ways of how to best support the election process. afghanistan is at a crossroads. many of the early achievements of democratic state-building notably human rights, freedom of expression and the media are somewhat under pressure. it will be hard under such circumstances for a civil society to emerge. in this context, your commitment here in parliament - and i thank the rapporteur once again - and your cooperation with the afghan parliament, the wolesi jirga, are invaluable. i think you can contribute to this fostering of a democratic process. as the eu - and i close with that - we have a responsibility to support afghanistan in the interest not only of the people of that country and the stability of the whole region but also of europe. this is what we so have to clearly tell our taxpayers.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. so 30 years of recent history of afghanistan is soviet occupation, internal conflict and finally, taliban rule. this is why operation enduring freedom, launched by the us, uk, poland, czech republic, france, romania and today's isaf mission, which brings together the military commitment of almost all eu member states, should be seen as a success. education is better, healthcare is better, and the government of hamid karzai controls a large part of his country in very difficult conditions. the resurgence of terrorism in 2007 means only one thing for us: afghanistan needs more financial, political and military support from the european union and nato. the other attitude, as seen in the leftist amendments, will be a manifestation of our selfishness, hypocrisy and shortsightedness.
madam president! today, one of the most important challenges still facing the union is to establish an efficient mechanism for the coordination of actions and the exchange of information between the actors in afghanistan. this mechanism is necessary to ensure that the actions undertaken by those actors in afghanistan are mutually complementary. combating international and local terrorism by enhancing security at home and thereby facilitating its further development. we should therefore work together to support afghan civil society and reconciliation projects. in addition, efforts should be made to stabilise the situation in afghanistan by strengthening local institutions and addressing the needs of citizens in the basic areas of life. the achievement of independence and freedom of the media is also an important element in the process of rebuilding a democratic state. such actions should be encouraged.
in writing. afghanistan is a country with many problems. it is a country with a high incidence of terrorist attacks, with a deteriorating internal security, where human rights are not respected. the country is a major producer of opium, which also has a negative impact on security and politics, as an opium-based economy is a source of corruption, weakening public institutions, especially in the field of justice. more than half of afghanistan's population lives below the poverty line, with unemployment at 40 percent and the punishment for leaving the muslim faith still in place. although the country has embarked on a complex and arduous process of reconstruction, it should better meet the basic needs of its citizens in areas such as education, health, housing, food and public safety. assistance to afghanistan should be based on short-term and long-term actions, made possible by comprehensive improvements in governance. the european union's support should be based on the experience and expertise of the member states' missions present in the territory of afghanistan through civilian and military forces. the presence of nato forces is also essential to combat terrorism. the country's future is positively affected by the mass participation of the population in the elections, which testifies to the desire to build a democratic country. the continuation of the fight against corruption and the creation of new structures by afghan institutions is a very important issue. restructuring and a concerted international effort are having a huge impact in bringing afghanistan out of the deep slump caused by the chronic internal conflict.
madam president! numerous studies confirm that modern aviation has a small impact on climate through its low contribution to anthropogenic carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and only 0.1% of the impact on cloud cover through compensatory streaks or cirrus clouds. rising oil prices are severely limiting the ability of airlines to increase the cost of transport services, which, together with the additional need to cover the purchase costs of the emissions trading scheme, will hamper the development of this sector and delay or prevent the introduction of green solutions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the air transport sector. air transport cannot be restricted without a concrete alternative or the time needed for systematic adaptation.
madam president! i thank you for this report and for the negotiations, although i feel a certain lack of it. it must be a very balanced approach, taking into account both environmental protection and the cost of air transport. this cannot be a discrimination against european carriers and european passengers, especially from the new member states. we must also remember that airspace is a global issue, that our actions must be correlated with those of other countries. otherwise, we'll be the ones who suffer the losses, and the other carriers will just laugh at us. it is also important to take steps to develop new aircraft engines, engines of the next generation, and to look for other sources of propulsion for aircraft. so let's be very careful.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? we can, however reluctantly, agree that the plates don't work. it is scandalous that the european parliament cannot be told what the result is. in that case, i ask that when you check, you give the exact result - how many people were for, how many were against, how many abstained. if it's not on the board, i'd like you to read it and have your staff write it down.
the rapporteur. - i wanted to thank everyone who supported this report. i hope that commissioner dimas, the commission, the council and all the great men of the european union will take account of this opinion of the european parliament, which is clearly expressed here. the issue of energy solidarity, the issue of broader political solidarity, and concern for the environment are all extremely important to the european parliament. this report and this vote, in which 90% of the people voted in favour, should be a clear signal to the authorities of the european union that the opinion of the european parliament cannot be disregarded and that this resolution, although not formally binding, is nevertheless binding.
mr. chairman, please! this report is of vital importance to our daily lives. the public wants healthy and safe food and it is therefore important that the procedures for the authorisation of food additives, food enzymes and flavourings are transparent. in order to strengthen the protection of the consumer, and in particular of those who are intolerant to certain substances, consumers should be fully informed about their content in food. it is therefore important that the information on the label is understandable to the average consumer, including allergy sufferers. the authorisation of substances to improve the taste, appearance or nutritional properties of products should be based on scientific knowledge and risk assessment by authorised and competent bodies. compliance with these rules and requirements should be monitored and must be subject to ongoing controls for the benefit of consumers in our common single market.
mr. chairman, please! i fully support mr libicki's report. the amendments weaken the conclusions. the pipeline is a threat to the environment, the sea and the baltic states. the additional aspect is that the construction costs are several times higher than the construction of the nord stream gas pipeline by land. the additional costs will be borne by the citizens of germany, europe, because the depreciation of his costs will be included in every cubic meter of gas sold. who's going to make money? lobbyists, project developers, and russian politicians. with that money, you could build a few nuclear power plants that reduce gas consumption and co2 emissions. we have a duty to look after the safety and the money of the citizens of the european union. it is our moral duty, i answer mr matsakis: i am against the construction of a pipeline across the baltic.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my great satisfaction at the almost unanimous adoption in this house of a report on the impact of the planned construction of the so-called baltic gas pipeline linking russia and germany on the natural environment of the baltic sea. the baltic sea is a typical inland sea, a shallow aquarium with a limited water exchange cycle with the world's oceans. in addition, a large number of chemical weapons are being sunk at the bottom of the baltic sea, and this could lead to an ecological catastrophe in this very important water body from the european point of view. but there is another, more important, issue that this report has raised. energy investment in the member states of the union should be a matter of common european interest and concern for the whole union and its citizens, not just for one country, in this case germany. we must think first of all about european solidarity, about the energy security of the whole of europe. that's not happening today. i hope that this report will be a clear signal from the european parliament to the council and the commission, but above all to the government of the federal republic of germany, that the baltic pipeline issue should not be settled between two countries but with the full agreement and consent of this house and all the member states.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of this important report by mr libicki, because the northern gas pipeline is a project whose effects could affect as many as eight member states of the european union. i therefore believe that the union should develop its position, including the need to carry out reliable, independent studies and analyses that identify the environmental risk and establish an appropriate mechanism to monitor action in this area. we need a common energy policy based on solidarity, without accusing each other of trying to pursue our national interests at the expense of the community's interests. we must develop a common position on this issue, which takes account of both the energy and environmental dimensions and the security of individual member states. europe must show its internal solidarity in this particular case.
in writing. - having regard to the confusion during the vote, i wish to clarify that my intention was to support the maintenance of the immunity of mr witold tomczak and that my vote should be taken as such, i.e. as against, not in favour of the report.
in writing. - mr president, i supported mr westlund's report because i agree with the rapporteur that the law on artificial food additives should be harmonised. i think we should put more emphasis on consumers being given clear information about the content of preservatives in the food they buy.
in writing. − in line with the planned ratification of the lisbon treaty, parliament and the council would be on an equal footing in 2009 in legislative and budgetary matters, by conferring new competences on the european union and by making fundamental changes to the current budgetary procedure. it is all the more important that the european union has the financial resources necessary to fully implement its current policies and activities in the various areas, while having the flexibility to meet new policy challenges. the very low level of payment appropriations proposed in the preliminary draft budget (eur 116.736 billion), corresponding to 0.90% of gni, a decrease of 3.3% compared with 2008, is therefore surprising. the european commission's proposed budget cuts for information activities in the context of long-planned activities for 2009, such as the european parliament elections or the possible entry into force of the lisbon treaty, are also cause for concern. the july conciliation procedure on the budget should make it a priority to ensure that the appropriations for payments and the union's information policy are adequate. it is also necessary for the commission to propose measures for pilot projects and preparatory actions in order to avoid their financing from the reserves of the relevant actions of the multiannual financial framework. it is also important to ensure that the union has adequate financial resources to enable it to respond to the new challenges of 'competitiveness for growth and jobs', without limiting existing funds to important programmes currently being implemented.
in writing. mr. chairman, the construction of the nord stream pipeline could cause a breach of the remaining post-war weapons depots. there are an estimated 40,000 to 60,000 tons of chemical munitions at sea, and the exact location of these weapons is unknown. breaking into these storage facilities could cause a major environmental disaster. i supported the report because i agree with the rapporteur that it is scandalous to treat crossborder investment of such a large scale as a bilateral issue between russia and germany. the protection of the baltic sea and the people of the coastal countries should be one of the eu's top priorities.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mr libicki. this is an important report. however, i would like to point out that it is wrong to believe that citizens' petitions have brought this issue to the european parliament. many months before receiving such petitions, my colleague mp bogusław sonik proposed holding a debate on the northern gas pipeline. i'm surprised you're resisting the report. we talk about environmental issues a lot, and it doesn't raise any objections. in this particular case, some members do not want to study the environmental impact of the investment. why would you do that? the answer seems simple: for some countries and politicians, it is this investment that is more important than the environment. perhaps that is why we should also examine the political and economic context of the proposed investment. i know the argument that this is a private project. but let's not forget that the company that's going to build the pipeline is going to have former politicians in its ranks. the use of private projects for political purposes is also not a problem for the russian side.
in writing. - i fully agree with the rapporteur, mr marcin libicki, that the implementation of the project commonly known as the 'baltic gas pipeline' could create a direct environmental threat to eight eu countries: germany, sweden, finland, latvia, lithuania, estonia, denmark and poland. it may also have a negative impact on consumers in terms of the price increases that will be covered by the construction of the pipeline. it is important that there is an alternative to the construction of the northern gas pipeline by land through the countries of the european union, which would meet all the strategic and economic requirements of decision 1364/2006/ec. the alternative construction proposal is safer in terms of environmental impact and cheaper. i particularly advocate that an independent expert study be conducted to assess the environmental impact of the pipeline.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. the planned project is one of a number of gas infrastructure projects needed to meet the eu's growing gas demand. however, a number of factors must be considered in the construction of the building. this longest and most slippery stretch of water in the world is a major threat to biodiversity and habitat, and to the safety and seaworthiness of the region, not to mention the 80,000 tons of munitions sunk during world war ii. as a member of the envi committee and as rapporteur for the espoo convention, i would like to stress that any such international investment should be preceded by a thorough consultation of all interested parties. we should pay attention to the analysis of possible alternatives, such as land routes, which take into account the cost of implementation and environmental safety. with the eu's growing dependence on a small number of energy sources and their suppliers, it is important to support initiatives to diversify them; one only has to wonder whether gazprom, the russian company that holds a 51% stake in the nord stream consortium, is the best solution for this.
in writing. - i support the report by the libyan mep, both because of the significant environmental threat posed by the pipeline to the baltic sea and because of the attempts to circumvent the obligation to obtain the approval of all coastal countries and the lack of an independent positive environmental impact assessment of the pipeline. it is also particularly important to preserve the principle of solidarity in the european union's energy policy. the pipeline is designed to make the eu countries politically dependent on russia, which uses its natural resources to put pressure on its buyers. i would also point out that the choice of the sea route for the pipeline means an increase in gas prices due to the several times higher cost of this investment compared to the land route.
rapporteur. − mr president, i was rather surprised when i read that both the set plan and our energy package were going to be in the same programme as a block. it is as if one were to talk about human rights and human diseases in a block because they are both ‘human’, which is not a very good idea. similarly, the fact that they are both about ‘energy’ is not enough to link energy technology and the energy package together as they are very different topics. but seeing both commissioners here, i am very glad at this decision, because the set plan is very important for the european union and needs strong support from some commissioners and from the whole commission. as you can see from the voting in the committee on industry, research and energy, you have support from the european parliament. i will now go through the content of the set plan. however, it would probably be easier if i change to my mother tongue, which i shall now do. unia europejska zdecydowała się na wprowadzenie kosztu emisji dwutlenku węgla. to jest kluczowa decyzja. pokazujemy, że będziemy walczyć z ociepleniem klimatu. pokazujemy się jako lider w tej walce. z drugiej strony trzeba pamiętać, że koszt emisji dwutlenku węgla oznacza trudności dla gospodarki, oznacza wyższe koszty produkcji niemal w każdej branży. chciałbym podkreślić, że najdotkliwiej zostanie obciążony sam sektor energii, i to w krajach, gdzie produkuje się energię elektryczną lub ciepło z paliw kopalnych. propozycja złożona przez komisję europejską dotycząca strategicznego programu technologii energetycznych jest moim zdaniem doskonałą odpowiedzią na zagrożenia dla gospodarki europejskiej. chodzi o zmniejszenie kosztów energii. komisja europejska wprowadza wsparcie dla technologii bezemisyjnych i niskoemisyjnych właśnie w dziale „energia, produkcja i przetwarzanie energii”. po raz pierwszy w jednym dokumencie umieszczamy wszystkie sposoby działania na rzecz ochrony klimatu i bezpieczeństwa energetycznego. mamy więc tu także energetykę nuklearną. wprawdzie ciągle istnieją obawy po stronie naszych kolegów, przede wszystkim kolegów z partii zielonych – są przez nich eksponowane zagrożenia związane z energetyką nuklearną. ale dzisiaj trzecia generacja elektrowni nuklearnych jest zupełnie inna, niż ta, która była stworzona dla czarnobyla. natomiast wydaje się, że jest pełna zgoda co do innego wielkiego wyzwania i problemu, mianowicie wyłapywania i składowania dwutlenku węgla. to jest nowa technologia, zachęty dla niej są niezbędne jak dla każdej nowej obiecującej technologii. co do poparcia dla techniki odnawialnej w zakresie energetyki, nie było w parlamencie nigdy wątpliwości. także parlament europejski wprowadza sprawność energetyczną i oszczędność energii jako najważniejszy problem, może dzięki temu będzie można uniknąć budowy jednej czy dwóch elektrowni atomowych, bo poprawimy sprawność i energooszczędność. na koniec dwie uwagi: organizacja badań na skalę europejską to świetny pomysł, popieramy go – to może być pierwszy sektor, w którym unia europejska to zrobi. to jest początek wspólnego rynku energii, także w tym zakresie, i swobodnego przepływu wiedzy. zaproponowałem w sprawozdaniu określone środki finansowe na wsparcie nowych technologii. to jest konieczne, jeśli chcemy pomóc naszemu przemysłowi, sektorowi energii, jeśli chcemy wygrać strategię lizbońską.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's approach to energy problems is full of contradictions. we are hearing more and more calls for coherent, joint, long-term cooperation and strategy, and at the same time, more and more examples of uncoordinated actions, piecemeal proposals, investments that serve the interests of some at the expense of others. the reports presented are an attempt to put the problem in order or to draw attention to underestimated issues and dilemmas. the rapporteur should therefore be commended. the world has never seen a case in history of a second commodity whose price would rise as much as oil and gas prices in such a short period of time. so it's safe to say that there was a mistake in predicting what would happen. there is no doubt, then, that this economic dilemma must be solved in two ways. first, by increasing the supply of energy resources, including new, more efficient energy sources, and second, by slowing down the growth of demand through new, more energy-efficient technologies. the european union must be effective in this respect and must not allow the privilege of a monopoly access to raw materials or a capital advantage to determine the market situation. that is why access to the gas transmission network, research into new technologies, new agencies are useful proposals. today, time is of the essence, and therefore urgent action and implementation is needed. therefore, the threat to climate stability posed by co2 emissions should be re-examined by scientists for its validity, lest it be found that reducing emissions will only benefit a select few, and mainly the companies, and not consumers, while destroying hard coal.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i thank you for allowing me to speak, because i am obliged to leave you to take a train because of very heavy agenda constraints. i would first like to thank the european commission and the members for this interesting debate and for all the work that has been done on this 'internal energy market' package. as many of you have noted, the adoption of this package will have direct consequences for the lives of our fellow citizens. we are dealing with a subject which expresses the expectations of europeans. it seems to me that the improvements our citizens expect can come from two directions. the first is the need for consistency in the rules and mechanisms applied in the european union, to which this package will contribute. the second is the need for clarity and readability for market players and consumers. in the case of the latter, annexes a to the directives must be transposed by the member states in particular. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is informed and that their concerns are heard, and that the situation of vulnerable consumers is of course better understood. but the work is not yet done. there are still points of convergence to be found, particularly for the application of effective separation not only to gas, since our positions are already quite close, but also to electricity. the french presidency will give concrete form to the general orientation of 6 june at the energy council on 10 october. only then, on 10 october, will we have a stable position from the council. we still need to work on the third country clause in particular so that the concerns of all member states are taken into account. the presidency will then forward its common position to the european parliament so that the internal market package can be completed by the end of the parliamentary term; that's what we're trying to do. i hope that our joint efforts will be rewarded in a constructive spirit and in a spirit of compromise between all our institutions.
mr. chairman, please! each plan should include decisions that are both temporal and spatial, but the current commission decisions hamper the implementation of earlier ones, e.g. the market holds back the plans for investments in cogeneration, as it is not profitable to convert the plants into efficient plants, which are burdened with emissions purchases and network problems. the commission also divides the eu countries into better countries that can increase emissions and worse countries that must reduce them. the latter, of course, are mainly central and eastern european countries. under the kyoto protocol, the reference year for counting emissions in the ets should be the 1990s, not the 2005 imposed by the commission. it would be both fairer and more supportive. leadership in the area of climate change cannot be at the expense of poor communities. efficiency and savings should be the priority, and renewable energy should be seen as a complement, not an alternative. the future is clean coal in the medium term and nuclear energy in the long term, as we have seen.
mr. chairman, please! the regulations discussed here are intended to facilitate the integration of national gas markets and to enhance enforcement at european level. the gas market should be considered separately from the electricity market, given the european union's high import dependency. ownership unbundling can be a highly effective instrument for ensuring the creation of a single gas market in the european union and the emergence of fair competition in the union energy market and can, as a result, lead to lower or at least stabilised energy prices. however, caution is in order. the process of market liberalisation requires specific structural changes, for which not all eu countries are prepared. market liberalisation and ownership unbundling in poland, without introducing them by the main energy producers in the union, may give western european companies an advantage over polish ones. europe needs an energy model that not only ensures competitiveness in regional markets and the european single market, but also guarantees the protection of the final consumer and, above all, energy security.
mr. chairman, please! one of the fundamental issues to be addressed is the problem of guaranteeing the security of supply of raw materials. energy policy must take into account the fact that the potential for diversification of gas import sources varies considerably from one country to another. the fact is that they have different possibilities of obtaining and purchasing this raw material. i have already stressed on many occasions the need to develop a coherent energy policy that will ensure the energy security of the individual member states. the measures to implement ownership unbundling in the natural gas market will certainly improve the competitiveness and quality of the services provided. however, given the wide diversity of gas and energy markets, i support the rapporteur's proposal that these sectors should be regulated separately. the gas market will only be truly competitive if customers have full access to information on their natural gas consumption levels and the possibility to switch suppliers.
rapporteur. − madam president, i thank all my colleagues for the discussion – it was a very good, very deep discussion – especially the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who prepared opinions in other committees. i congratulate both rapporteurs, mr paparizov and mr la russa. i entirely support your reports – and of course i support my report as well, but i am probably not very objective on that. as you can see from the discussion there is not much controversy on the set plan, but there is one thing on which i should like an answer. adina-ioana vălean is not in favour of the ccs installations – the ccs commercial demonstration installations – because the companies we would like to support are doing business. i would like to give an example. the same companies receive enormous incentives from citizens’ taxes for renewables. there are also commercial renewable installations and companies are doing business – nothing else – and i very strongly support these incentives for renewables. if you really want to solve the climate change problem on our planet we must solve the ccs question because we do not know the true answer for that. so from that point of view, as in the case of renewables, we should also have incentives for the first movers on ccs. i give my thanks and congratulations to both commissioners. you are doing great work on the energy issue, as well as on r&d and innovation.
in writing. mr president, europe's fundamental weakness in its relations with russia is the lack of a common, free energy market. there are now several energy hubs scattered across europe, each managed by national regulators. it is natural that the efforts of national governments to secure cheap energy and jobs in the sector are given priority. however, in this way, divided by national egoism, we lose to gazprom's energy offensive in europe. an integrated european market and a supportive attitude towards non-eu suppliers can ensure our energy security even before we diversify our energy supply. so far, the eu's failure to create a liquid and competitive energy market has been relentlessly exploited by the russians. opening the european internal gas market to competition leads to greater efficiency and strengthens the rights of consumers and national regulators. the creation of a kind of interconnected vessel system will make it easier for individual member states to respond to energy supply crises and thus reduce the threat of energy blackmail. we must stop russian companies from expanding into europe and force russia to reciprocate in its treatment of energy investments. i fully agree with the rapporteur that member states should promote the integration of national markets and cooperation between network operators at european and regional level.
in writing. the liberalisation of the natural gas sector is a very important part of the attempt to create a common internal energy market. the natural gas market is currently dominated by large companies, which often control the production and distribution of gas. a well-functioning internal energy market is essential for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, but also for ensuring affordable prices for energy consumers. in this debate, however, we should not forget the energy security that must be ensured by diversifying the supply of imported energy resources. this does not mean that the energy market is the same in every area. the natural gas market is indeed significantly different from the electricity market and it is therefore not possible for the regulations resulting from the work on the regulation of the electricity sector to be transposed into the regulation of the natural gas sector. the real liberalisation of the natural gas market should be based on the ownership unbundling of transmission system operators, only then will we avoid unnecessary conflicts of interest and fair and non-discriminatory access to the network. in order to ensure a level playing field in the common energy market, investors from third countries should be subject to the same criteria as regards ownership and independence as companies from member states, and we should emphasise this very strongly. i hope that the european market will soon be an open market, where the activities related to the supply and production of energy are effectively separated from the operation of the grid, resulting in greater transparency in the operation of the market.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we are reducing the barriers to the movement of wagons and locomotives on the european rail network. we're going to settle the dilemma of railways in the community or railways for the community. we are thus moving closer, through this act, to the idea of a community railway, that is to say, common technical, operational and legal standards, that is to say, interoperability, which is something that is badly needed. civil aviation, road transport and shipping are much more advanced in the development of community sectoral systems. it was also one of the factors of their market success. the railways have not so far had any visible market success, but rather lost market share. the project under discussion is good and necessary. mr paolo costa has done a very good job and has given a good report. i also believe that you, commissioner, will be able to control the agency to the full benefit of the european railways.
madam president! in the countries of the old union, rail transport is losing its importance to road transport. we've been seeing this phenomenon for decades. in 1970, the railway's share of all goods transport was close to 20% and in 2003 it was only 7,5%. we should take advantage of rail, which is a more environmentally friendly mode of transport. its development can help to relieve congestion, especially during the summer. the proposed amendment to the law will contribute to the improvement of trade in the union. it will remove barriers to the creation of new rail freight companies. it also abolishes the obligation to obtain the approval of locomotives in each member state and simplifies the procedures applicable to existing rolling stock.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in this debate, i want to draw attention to two issues. firstly, the amendments of the european parliament concerning the introduction of a mandatory certification system for all market actors, i.e. railway undertakings, infrastructure managers, owners or any other entity that can be certified as a maintenance responsible entity in accordance with the criteria and requirements of this directive should be supported. secondly, the amendments of the european parliament aimed at extending the competence of the european railway agency, in particular in the area of granting authorisations for the entry into service of vehicles complying with the tsi, making the agency the central body for the development of the ertms implementation system, and thirdly, entrusting the agency with the maintenance of a mandatory certification system for the maintenance of wagons and other railway vehicles should be supported. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr paul coste, on his success in persuading the council to accept most of the european parliament's amendments.
madam president! i congratulate the rapporteur on a really good report. we had a lot of discussions about aviation during this session. today we want to bring the 16 years old rules on common rules for the operation of civil air transport within the union up to date. these changes should contribute to improving safety and, i would stress, the quality of air services and the safety of passengers. the clear and unambiguous wording of the price of the ticket should be a particular concern. it's good that we're also raising the issue of getting a concession so that the carrier is credible. it is also good that the rights of aircrew are being discussed here. today, with the booming aviation industry, regulation is essential. however, they should not inhibit initiatives and should serve the passenger. we also have to remember that the flight starts and ends at the airport, so it is also necessary to have a good airport culture.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - what are you doing? first of all, i would like to congratulate mr racek very warmly on his report and at the same time, as a representative of the committee on regional development, i would like to highlight the good cooperation that has been established between the committees - the committee on transport and the committee on regional development. i hope this sets a good example for the rest of the world. mr racq's report takes up important concepts on a variety of issues, because they concern technical, organisational and environmental problems on the one hand, but also social problems, including spatial planning and urban development planning. this report also deals in a very important way with what mr rack has been talking about, namely the practical operation of the subsidiarity principle. this report deals with an issue that is clearly within the competence of local authorities, but which goes beyond the scope of local authorities' activities, and therefore, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, other level bodies should help cities in this respect this is the principle of subsidiarity. the second level units should help cities, and should help first of all the member states, but also the european union by creating organisational and financial possibilities funding pilot and experimental studies. this report is about something that we know in theory, but here we see in practice what an integrated approach is, which requires a very broad interaction of different types of factors. we look forward to further action by the european commission in this area and look forward to the action plan.
mr. chairman, please! the annual report of the european central bank does not seem to show a certain trend that has emerged in recent years. while we have hitherto been able to speak of the real independence of the frankfurt-based eurobank, we have recently seen the efforts of the largest countries of the european union to exert a certain pressure and influence the ecb's decisions. this is a worrying trend, because it means in practice that the union is divided into equal and more equal countries. it can lead to double standards. when countries like france or germany are given the right to exert pressure, but smaller countries are treated with absolute respect, the principle of autonomy and independence of the european central bank from the governments of the member states of the european union is respected. i'm talking about this because it's a very disturbing thing. finally, europe does not have a ready and stable financial system. he's just getting started. an example of this is the paradox that the most important financial centre of the european union is london, the capital of a country outside the euro area.
mr. chairman, please! the functioning of the economic and monetary union creates a significant stabilisation of development. the european central bank plays a key role in this, creating monetary policy as its primary objective. member states and their governments are responsible for economic policy, for job creation. however, the question of the ecb's rationale and its influence on the course of economic processes is raised. should the central bank be doing something here, as it is in the us, or not? in the face of a global food crisis, rising energy and fuel prices, a number of questions arise. first, what action is needed to limit the further escalation of this crisis. second, how to promote development in poor countries. third, how to monitor the functioning of financial markets so that the mortgage crisis does not happen again. finally, we must make it clear that compliance with the criteria of the stabilisation and growth pact must be a principle which applies equally to all member states.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. each eu country has its own social security system, which is different from the others and often depends on long-standing traditions and the country's financial capacity. these systems are not subject to harmonisation. the right to move and work freely between different countries creates the need to coordinate social security systems. the existing provisions in this area require simplification. the electronic exchange of data in the polish pension system has reduced the number of errors in the insurance data transmitted between institutions on several occasions. there is also a need to protect citizens against the reduction of their insurance rights. the employee should have the opportunity to understand which of the systems will determine his entitlements. he has a right to know how his contributions will be calculated and what the benefits will be. it is therefore essential that the rules and procedures for coordinating schemes, which are inherently complex, be simplified wherever possible and that they do not run backwards against the interests of the insured.
madam president! the creation of a coordinated social security system is a difficult task. the rapporteur should therefore be congratulated. however, i would like to draw attention to the issue of social benefits paid to immigrant families from outside europe. of course, we should support legal residents and provide humanitarian aid to illegal immigrants, but it is a misunderstanding to provide unlimited social assistance to families whose livelihood is by definition permanent and exclusive. today, many families are content with a wide range of benefits and do not intend to take up employment, defining their standard of living as sufficient. this is very demoralizing for the economy of tradition and the culture of work in europe. the way of life of these families in particular perpetuates the tendency of these people to lack identification with the culture and traditions of the country of settlement.
madam president! regulation no 883/2004 concerns not only workers and their families but also all persons covered by social security schemes. it extends the coordination of systems and has other important implications, including for the calculation of pensions, annuities and other entitlements. the effectiveness of this coordination will depend on the content of the new implementing regulation, the efficiency of the exchange of data in electronic form and the accuracy of the communication. it is also good that there is a regulation on third countries and that work is under way to improve it. the work and proposals of the rapporteur should be welcomed. it is difficult to ask more of it, since the council and the commission have not completed their work and have not submitted the final content of the annexes. so the work is going on, but so is the waiting of the beneficiaries, who are frustrated by the lack of benefits, the red tape and the long waiting for the return.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the corbett report because i believe it is a manifestation of the unprecedented discrimination of a nucleus of the supposedly democratic european parliament which is trying by administrative methods to prevent the formation of political groups which do not think and act like the collective majority in the sense of political correctness. this discrimination is twofold, because administrative measures are used to prevent the formation of a group, while at the same time the newly formed political groups are given much more intensive financial support, giving them an additional advantage. such discrimination is contrary to the foundations of the european union and the foundation on which the european union is to be built. i am strongly opposed to this and make no mistake: even if you do succeed in doing so, you will not succeed in doing so with the nations of europe who will definitely protest.
mr. chairman, please! mr buzek's report gives a comprehensive account of all strategic activities in the field of energy technologies. unfortunately, the lack of funds to fully fund all research, with the skyrocketing price of gas and oil, forces us to focus selectively on research related to reducing their use for energy purposes. this priority will also reduce co2 emissions and should be reflected in the strategy. i see the need to promote research into the construction of modern and safe nuclear power stations and the construction of the latest helium-hydrogen fusion power stations, as well as research into third-generation biofuels that can be produced in municipalities, thus alleviating fuel stress. i voted in favour of amendments to emphasize these priorities.
ladies and gentlemen! we have received an important report prepared by professor buzka. the european union's increasing dependence on energy imports, which is expected to reach 65% by 2030, requires us to take action to contribute to the security of energy supplies based on the principle of solidarity. it is also necessary to create instruments to mitigate the risks to the energy security of the member states in the context of further liberalisation of the energy sector. in order to achieve the eu's renewable energy and greenhouse gas reduction targets, we need to promote the development of new technologies, in particular carbon capture and storage technology. it is important to promote clean coal-burning technologies and to step up action on second and third generation biofuels and to strengthen nuclear research. efficiency and energy saving are particularly important.
in writing. − the lambsdorff report and recommendation are of high political importance in as much as they promote a reinforcement of the european union inside the united nations. it may be useful to remember that though the commission and the member states provide more than 40% of the un budget, the eu impact and influence in the united nations is still much weaker than it should be. however, the text of the report contains a misleading part about the discussions which are currently taking place in new york on the reform of the security council. while confirming the long-term target of a permanent seat for the eu, the recommendation quotes among many others only one of the various proposals on the floor, the so-called ‘overarching process’. it is well known that this proposal has turned out to be highly divisive and has obtained the consensus of less than one third of the un members, as noted by the president of the general assembly. therefore, while expressing a strong appreciation for the overall content and structure of this european parliament recommendation, i consider it necessary to stress our explicit reservation and objection on the part mentioning the ‘overarching process’.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament is dealing today with the priorities of the european union for the forthcoming session of the un assembly. the draft report stresses that the un is facing the creation of new bodies, the radical reorganisation of others, a change in the management of its core operations, the reorganisation of aid delivery and a thorough reform of the secretariat. this is very important. but we must not forget that the goal of all these activities is man and that the rights of man derive from human dignity. pope john paul ii spoke of this at the united nations years ago: "the first type of systematic threat to human rights involves a vast area of material distribution that is often unjust. . . . the second type of danger is the various forms of injustice and harm done to the human spirit. it is possible to wound a man in his inner relationship to truth, in his conscience, in the sphere of the so-called civil liberties, which are the equality of all without discrimination on the grounds of origin, race, gender, national, religious, political convictions. i believe that these words should be the guiding principle of the un.
in writing. − the creation of a single market for rail transport services requires changes to existing regulations. member states have developed 'their own safety standards, mainly for national routes, based on national technical and operational concepts'. it is necessary to establish harmonised regulatory structures in the member states, a coherent content of safety rules, uniform safety certification for railway undertakings, convergent tasks and competences of safety authorities and procedures for investigating railway accidents. independent bodies for the regulation and supervision of railway safety should be established in each member state. in order to ensure proper cooperation between them at community level, they should be given the same minimum scope of tasks and responsibilities. the protection of safety and public order, including peace of mind, on railway means of transport intended for general use, should be one of the eu's core tasks.
in writing. − a regulation adopted by the european parliament transforms the rules governing the provision of air services within the community, to the benefit of both air carriers and passengers. the regulation is important for the proper functioning of the internal market. it creates a more competitive environment for european airlines to compete with their international competitors. it will create a level playing field in the award and withdrawal of concessions, which should eliminate the distortions of competition that exist on the market, caused by, inter alia, divergent rules on concession requirements, discrimination against certain eu carriers on grounds of nationality or discrimination in the operation of routes to third countries. however, the consumer should be the main beneficiary of the changes. the need to include all taxes and surcharges in air fares will strengthen price transparency and the principle of voluntary surcharges. this will eliminate the exposure of consumers to higher tariffs and will result in more informed consumer decision-making. in addition, the inability of financially uncertain airlines to continue their operations will eliminate the risk of financial risk for passengers in the event of the bankruptcy of the air carrier.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's view that the council's common position should be adopted without amendments. i also consider that this regulation strengthens and improves the existing legislation on the oversight of concessions, aircraft leasing, air traffic sharing and price transparency.
in writing. - statistics are widely used, not just by businesses or economic institutions. their role in planning and monitoring market trends is huge. it is therefore essential that the indicators used to produce them are reliable and adequately reflect reality and market developments. existing indicators need to be reviewed, but new areas of data collection also need to be considered. the need to modernise statistics is also due to the existence of different statistical systems and practices in the member states, which often makes it difficult to compare data across the european union. of course, changes in this area cannot increase the reporting burden on businesses, especially smes. the comprehensive approach taken in the modernisation programme for european statistics should contribute to the rationalisation and coordination of the methods of obtaining statistics from different sources and, most importantly, will avoid the obligation for companies to provide the same data to different institutions involved in collecting them. i believe that the programme for the modernisation of european business and trade statistics is a good step towards reducing the administrative burden on businesses, which will help achieve the european commission's target of reducing it by 25% by 2012.
in writing. - i'm in favor of the report. batteries and accumulators which do not comply with the requirements of directive 2006/66/ec should be withdrawn from the market and should not be placed on the market. the commission has decided that batteries placed in conformity with the applicable legislation on the market of the european community by 26 september 2008 will not be withdrawn from the market. i think it's a very rational solution. the withdrawal of these non-compliant energy carriers from the market will lead to an increase in waste. i think the simplest and best solution is to label batteries and accumulators with stickers that would say that the product is not in compliance with eu regulations.
in writing. − toxic substances in cleaning, rinsing and disinfecting products, paints and solvents may pose a risk to human health in the form of respiratory, eye and sensory irritation. restricting access to the market for products that do not meet certain safety criteria can help to protect health and the environment to a considerable extent. most of these products can harm us by causing various unpleasant symptoms in the body. they can also destroy the environment once they've entered the ecosystem. when they pollute the soil or water source, the effects of their actions are often unpredictable. the limitation of the content of mee and bee in various detergents and cleaning products is a very beneficial solution, and i believe that the european union should make every effort and commitment to get rid of these unhealthy substances from our lives and our environment.
in writing. − the purpose of this document is to improve and streamline the community rules on the coordination of the social security systems of the member states. the provisions contained in it will make life much easier for the average citizen of the union who enjoys the freedom of movement within the european union. whether they are workers, civil servants, students, pensioners or entrepreneurs, all citizens will be able to maintain their social benefits after moving to another country. i strongly support the removal of the remaining obstacles to the free movement of people within the eu, and this document is another important step in that direction.
in writing. - this document is another attempt to usurp power by the majority at the expense of the minority. the arrogance of the largest political groups in the ep is reaching new heights. the document is intended to increase the minimum number of members who can form a political group from 21 to 30. small groups such as the ind/dem are at serious risk of this condition. i voted against the document, of course.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted today amendments to its rules of procedure which will change the rules for the formation of political groups. after the june 2009 elections, political groups in the ep will have to be composed of a minimum of 25 meps representing at least 7 member states. i fully support raising the threshold for political groups in the european parliament, as this will avoid excessive division of the parliament and improve its efficiency. the cohesion and efficiency of parliament suffer from the presence of too many small groups in its chamber. in order to strengthen democracy, however, smaller political groups must be protected from temporary declines below the threshold.
in writing. - i think that mr buzek's view on the question of the implementation of new energy technologies in the light of the challenges facing the european union, i.e. the protection of the environment, the guarantee of the security of energy supply and the maintenance of a high level of competitiveness of the european union, is correct. i agree with the rapporteur's remark about the insufficient resources allocated to new energy technologies in the current financial perspective of the european union. we must remember that success in new energy technologies should be achieved through public-private partnerships.
in writing. − identifying areas in which the european union should participate in urban transport issues is the most important aspect that the rapporteur has addressed. the rapporteur rightly recognises that urban transport in the european union faces similar problems, but it is not possible to devise a uniform way of tackling them in a general way. the rapporteur's view on the possibility of cities and municipalities choosing how to achieve their objectives is right here and i support it.
in writing. − the rapporteur of the european central bank's annual report focused on the challenges facing the ecb. the last few months have been full of worrying news for european economies, and unfortunately there are many more than in 2007. the crisis in financial markets, the sharp rise in oil prices and food prices are contributing to the slowdown in economic growth and the rise in inflation rates, and there are concerns about rising unemployment rates. the ecb will be one of the leading institutions to address these challenges. the measures taken in august 2007 provided liquidity to financial markets but did not resolve the crisis. the number of countries adopting the single currency is also increasing. slovakia will be the first country in central and eastern europe to take this step. but slovakia is certainly not the last. the adoption of the euro by the other new member states of the union seems to be a matter of time. slovakia's experience in this area will certainly be closely watched by the countries of the region, which are also considering adopting the single currency. the rapporteur rightly notes that the different levels of economic development, growth rates and maturity of economies can create problems for decision-making at the ecb. i therefore think it is right to ask for a review of the possibility of making changes in the decision-making process. this review should take into account not only current euro area members but also future and potential members.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw your attention once again to the undeniably disastrous political situation in tibet. as the olympics approach, the authorities of the people's republic of china are tightening their policies towards the province. it is a common practice to send armies to tibetan monasteries under the pretext of searching for weapons and terrorists. the result is the confiscation of the art collections, accompanied by the destruction of the objects of worship. citing independent research institutions and human rights organizations, i draw attention to the recent incident of this kind that took place in the tsendrok monastery in amdo maima province. the games are less than a month away. every day that passes confirms that the belief in the change in chinese domestic policy that we associated with the olympics was fervent. i hope, however, that europe's interest in this issue will not be extinguished by the olympic flame in beijing.
mr. chairman, please! as a result of the earthquake of 12 may 2008, 69 thousand people were killed, more than 18 thousand citizens were reported missing and the number of injured exceeded 37 thousand. this event shocked not only china, but the whole world. i think i was the only person in this room who had the opportunity to be there at that time: i was in beijing and shanghai, and i saw the solidarity of the people, the chinese people, who identified with the victims and with this tragedy. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the thousands of rescuers and volunteers from around the world, including taiwan, japan, australia and, above all, china, whose solidarity and dedication in these tragic circumstances are particularly commendable. the action taken by the european union should also be appreciated. the chinese government, with the support of local authorities, has allocated a total of 10 billion euros to help victims of the disaster. the total amount of foreign aid received by beijing was 5 billion euros. most of that money came from the chinese diaspora living in different parts of the world. i believe that action directed at concrete humanitarian aid will bring more benefits, and that dialogue will do more than sloganeering and tendentious calls for boycotts and protests.
mr. chairman, please! many countries, their leaders, including european leaders, are seeking to have good relations with china in order to get lucrative contracts or economic agreements, without paying any attention to the lack of democracy, the lack of respect for human rights in china. world opinion, world leaders, world institutions should collectively demand, exert pressure in defence of values such as freedom, human rights, democracy. if we're divided, if we're not working together, we're not going to be very effective. the olympics are a good opportunity for this kind of activity. the international community should help the people who suffered during the tragic earthquake.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to join the council and the commission in their reaction to the dramatic events in turkey. there is an important subject on our table today. the report by elmar brok confirms the relevance of the european union's enlargement strategy. i say this as a citizen of one of the countries that has benefited from this strategy. this report concludes that the new accessions to the european union have been a success. the report also says that the hopes of european peoples who aspire to join the european union and are ready to meet its initial criteria will be supported by the union. the concept of integration capacity, which is a condition for the accession decision, is well defined in this report. it may also be said that those who expected the european parliament to announce the end of enlargement and to introduce some substitutes for full accession were disappointed. the union is expanding, strengthening its power. i was pleased to hear commissioner rehn say that we should not introduce new vestibules for countries moving towards the european union and treat it as a drawing room. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this is an essential element of the union's capacity to welcome new member states and a factor in restoring the confidence of european citizens in europe. we know that trust is in crisis. but we also know that europe will emerge from this crisis. i am one of those who believe in the power of the european idea and the community institutions. e enlargement strategy which the european parliament is carefully considering today is designed to make the union stronger internally and to meet the expectations of the european people. it responded as it did to the hopes of central europe in 2004.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my main criticism of the report we are discussing today is that it lacks a clear concept of the opening-up of the union to the east. i would like to point out here the lack of consistency in the work of our house. last year we adopted a report by my colleague, mr michail kaminski, on the presentation of a clear membership perspective for ukraine. the document we are discussing should be a wake-up call to countries thinking of joining the european union, and in particular to our closest neighbour, ukraine. the report on the need to 'ensure the union's capacity to accept new countries' is a de facto brake on further enlargement of the european union. our natural candidates ukrainians, the european nation are being offered a dubious alternative to full membership. we should also be interested in working as closely as possible with ukraine in view of our geostrategic interests. in this situation, we should rather show kiev the open door to the european union, rather than rethinking the prospect of membership and pushing ukrainians into the orbit of russian influence. especially now that the kremlin's threats against ukraine are so much more intense.
mr. chairman, please! in our expansion strategy, academic jargon is beginning to dominate politics. the theory of capacity for enlargement is, however, only a set of pretexts for a completely arbitrary and political decision to close the union to the world. this is a bad direction and harmful for europe, because it is enlargement that has given the union its international personality and allowed it to spread its social, political and economic model. by accepting this report, we are sending a cold signal to kiev and tbilisi, we are weakening the pro-western and pro-european forces there. to get support for treaty reform, for example in poland, it was said that this was necessary for enlargement. the more surprising is the demand that, despite the adoption of the lisbon treaty, work should be done on further reforms of the treaties in the context of successive enlargements. dear elmar, your speech was certainly better than the report, but tell me one thing: how many reform treaties do we have to adopt to be considered ready to accept ukraine into the european union?
mr. chairman, please! the union is already big for today, but it is still incomplete and incomplete. to be a common, common europe, it needs common values as a basis and at the same time the will of its citizens. to achieve the goals we set for ourselves, such as a better economy, political power in the international arena, better demography, better quality of life, certain conditions must be met. in the light of what mr brok has said, greater internal integration is clearly needed. then there is our will as members of the union to continue to expand and, of course, the fulfilment of the conditions by the candidates. what's the strategy for this expansion? well, it's just motivating these candidates to make an effort, working with them and supporting them through various instruments, including the neighbourhood instruments. the eastern dimension is important to us because there is a large part of europe that is not in the real europe, that is to say, in the european union. i see no other way than to make an effort to get to know these eastern neighbours and to prepare the legal, economic and social ground. what's important in all of this is convergence of values, or at least the possibility of convergence. i think, i am even convinced that this greatest social and political experiment that has ever happened in history up to now, the filling of europe with the european union, has a chance to be realized.
mr. chairman, please! the report on the enlargement strategy refers to the provisions of the treaty of rome, according to which 'any european country may apply to become a member of the community'. we welcome the signals of acceptance of the polish-swedish eastern partnership initiative, which includes closer cooperation with our eastern neighbours, including ukraine and belarus. it should be stressed that ukraine is awaiting full membership. in the context of the priorities of the french presidency focusing on rapprochement with the union's southern neighbours, the eastern partnership should be strengthened accordingly to avoid serious asymmetries in foreign policy. one of the instruments could be the creation of a union east parliamentary assembly, known as euronest. putting this proposal at the top of the agenda would strengthen the signal to our eastern neighbours and their community aspirations. it should be emphasized that these should not be suppressed and linked to the failure of the lisbon treaty, as some prominent politicians in europe do.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 10 july 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on paper. as the representative of a country that joined the eu in 2004, i fully support all of the elements of elmar brok's report which underline the importance of successive enlargements and their positive impact on building a strong, cohesive, citizen-friendly and prosperous europe. i agree with the statement that the prospect of eu membership, which is already recognised, has a very positive effect on the internal policies of the candidate countries, encouraging them to speed up the restructuring of their administrations, reform their education and higher education systems, pay more attention to respect for human rights, including minority rights, combat the pathologies of public life, in short, adopt the values that have long guided the european union. i also believe that the report should emphasise even more the openness of the european union and its readiness to welcome new member states. this is particularly important for my country, poland, especially in the context of the expectations and european aspirations of our eastern neighbours, mainly ukraine. it would be very bad if our neighbours perceived our eastern border (the schengen border for the whole eu) as a new wall that permanently separates them from us. the views sometimes expressed in this context that further enlargements of the union should be conditional on its so-called 'absorption capacity' are therefore highly ill-considered and, consequently, dangerous to the objectives the eu sets itself.
in writing. mr. president ! the resolution refers to the european union's enlargement strategy at a time when enlargement has gone out of fashion. it's even become a nightmare in the hands of eurosceptics. this is why it is so important to state, in accordance with the truth, that 'previous enlargements have undoubtedly been beneficial', contributing to the strengthening of stability, development and prosperity throughout europe. however, this needs to be explained to eu citizens in order to increase public support for the next steps. unfortunately, the information efforts so far have not been successful. as usual in the enlargement debate, the geography of potential candidates for membership is interesting. the resolution is a very good one, and i think it is a good one. the aspirations of the balkan countries are clearly confirmed. it is an important declaration that the eastern neighbourhood partners can be clearly defined as european countries. however, the key definition of the union's 'absorptive capacity' (paragraph 7) is hopeless, and the additional reference to 'shared values' is explicitly addressed to turkey. such a wording of the resolution does not entirely coincide with the polish position. poland - a country that once knocked on the door of the union - is seeking membership for ukraine and other post-soviet states. in the name of stabilizing the entire continent!
in writing the prospect of eu membership is thus a driving force for change in the countries concerned. it calls for the necessary political and economic reforms to be carried out and for the copenhagen criteria to be met. for the prospect of membership to be credible, on the one hand, progress in the negotiations must depend on the pace and scale of reforms in the candidate country. on the other hand, we need the union's capacity to accept these countries, we need a strong and cohesive community, and above all a community of solidarity. it is very important that the citizens of our countries see the benefits of the accession of new countries. enlargement brings benefits, economic and social development to both new and old member states. the successive enlargements of the european union have been a success. the success of the acceding and the existing member states. the success of europe. i am very pleased that the report emphasises that the eastern european countries still have an open path to membership of the european union. this, together with the recently adopted eastern partnership programme, should encourage them to make efforts to move closer to european democratic, economic and administrative standards.
in writing. previous enlargements of the european union have undoubtedly benefited both the union itself and the countries that have acceded to it, and have contributed to stimulating economic growth and strengthening stability, development and prosperity in europe. it is very important to create the conditions necessary to ensure the success of future enlargements, to improve their quality on the basis of the experience gained in the past. the eu must be open to new countries, but the enlargement strategy should comply with the eu treaty and reflect its commitments to all candidate and prospective member states, with full and rigorous compliance with the copenhagen criteria as an absolute condition. at the same time, we should closely monitor the progress of these countries in building the rule of law, an independent judiciary and respect for fundamental rights. the union must take action to increase its capacity to welcome new countries. the necessary internal reforms are needed to increase efficiency, social cohesion and democratic accountability. the lisbon treaty is the answer to these requirements, and without it, further enlargement of the union becomes very difficult. at the same time, however, the success of the eu's political integration process can only be achieved if there is clear and lasting public support for eu membership in each of the candidate countries and for the union itself as an economic and political project.
in writing. we like to say that the european parliament is the only real place where the views of the citizens of the union can be expressed. it is a pity, then, that this is the only place where we can convince each other that the enlargement of the european union is a great success. it's all our fault that not everyone in the community has the same opinion. this in turn leads to a lack of understanding of the need to reform the union. however, i cannot accept the argument that the absence of the lisbon treaty is the main reason for the impeding of enlargement policy. the treaty itself doesn't solve anything. it takes vision and strategy. the european union will not be a political and geographical entity until all european countries are in it. it is not true that citizens of countries wishing to join the union expect it to happen immediately or in a very short time. but they need a clear signal that there is a place for them here. without this declaration, it is difficult to expect them to undertake the effort of comprehensive reforms that involve much sacrifice and hard work. we cannot forget the europeans from the balkans and eastern europe. the european neighbourhood policy is a good instrument for regulating cooperation with the countries neighbouring our continent. the european union's neighbours, on the other hand, have a right to expect a more clear and effective cooperation policy, one that does not lead to more lobbies or waiting rooms. if so much energy is being devoted to the creation of a mediterranean union, which is particularly supported by france, then at least the same energy should be devoted to the creation of euronest.
the next item is the debate on:- oral question to the council on palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons (o-0040/2008 - b6-0166/2008),- oral question to the commission on palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons (o-0041/2008 - b6-0167/2008).
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i will be brief, since i said the main points in my opening speech. but the debate we have had has been very moving in some respects and i wanted to tell you that the council is aware and informed of the facts mentioned and that it will continue to express its concern and to invoke the instruments of international law. the presidency will continue to raise this issue in the political contacts between the european union and israel that will take place during our presidency. we also recall that the political process under way can only develop if confidence-building measures on the ground are increased. the continuation of the settlement process, the persistence of terrorism and violence, the fate of palestinian prisoners are obstacles to peace efforts, as is the situation of israeli hostages held by terrorist groups; i'm thinking of gilad shalit in particular. in conclusion, on a note of hope, what i wanted to say to parliament is that the european union has a key role to play in this process, based on its membership of the quartet, its status as the main donor and its support for the palestinian authority, and also its status as a major partner of israel. the european union has always recognized israel's right to live in security, within recognized borders, in coexistence with palestine, as i indicated in my introduction.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next partsession in september.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in zimbabwe.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to call on the commission to investigate and to prepare proposals for action that would be effective against robert mugabe, who continues to use violence and who totally disregards the result of the march elections. at this point, we are virtually helpless, and our only means of resistance are words. i would urge that a report be prepared on what action can be taken to bring him to justice so that peace can reign in zimbabwe and that the people of zimbabwe can really exercise their rights as citizens.
mr. chairman, please! zimbabwe needs international help and our support, but it needs reform. the european union, the african union and south africa should seek to establish a dialogue between the ruling party and the opposition. zimbabwe must finally move towards democracy and establish a government of national unity. [...] the un initiative that will impose an arms embargo on zimbabwe and freeze the assets of mugabe's inner circle. instead, steps should be taken to enable humanitarian organisations to operate. the solution may be to provide aid to the most needy regions of zimbabwe through ngos.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, mr louis michel, ladies and gentlemen, the debate was perfectly clear, the conclusions drawn were also clear, the speeches were strong and that is quite normal, because the european union must accept only one formula, the one which respects the will of the people of zimbabwe as expressed in the first round of elections, and this is the result which must serve as the basis for any regulation. we will discuss the situation in zimbabwe with the commission at the next council meeting on 22 july. we will take account of the comments that have been made and the suggestions that have been made, not to france, mr van orden, but to the presidency of the council of the european union. france has no power as such, it simply has the mandate given to it by the european union in this context, including what you have proposed with regard to the convening of an extraordinary session on human rights in geneva if the council has, of course, the possibility of doing so. we will follow the ever wise and very experienced recommendations of louis michel on the follow-up of mediation efforts. i think that from this point of view we cannot go beyond what mr tsvangirai himself recommended to the commissioner in his meeting with him, and i think that is the position we must take. the european union, the council and the commission must remain in contact with the actors involved, the sadc, the african union and south africa, whose delegation i once again welcome, and we will naturally have to take account of the resolution which will be voted by your parliament tomorrow in the context of the work we will be doing in the council. i have nothing further to add, and i will of course rely on the experience and eloquence of mr michel on this point, without wishing to waste his time.
member of the commission. - mr president, i will be very brief. the minister has said everything, and so have the speakers. i can of course only agree with the content of the speeches, especially those of mr van orden and mrs kinnock, but i must add at the same time that the commission's power is of course essentially a diplomatic power, but also, perhaps, a power to prepare what we could implement in the event that - which we obviously want with all our strength and will promote with all the means of pressure at our disposal - mediation could lead to the coming of a government led by mr tsvangirai. i therefore fully agree with the content of the speeches by mr van orden, mrs kinnock and all the speakers, mrs hall, mr hutchinson and mr gahler. i hope i'm not forgetting anyone. there's just one element i don't agree with. you know i'm used to being straight with you. i do not agree with the condemnation of the portuguese presidency for having organized a summit in lisbon which we have been waiting for for years and which the zimbabwean question prevented from taking place. it was time to have this european union/africa summit anyway and at some point it was time to act. it is well known that mugabe's presence was in fact ensured by the african union's willingness not to be constrained by the other party, namely the european party, in the choice of invitations. so i think that is an unfair criticism. i would also like to emphasize the particularly difficult situation in south africa. it is no easier for south africa to move in this position than it is for president m'beki to play the role of mediator. at the moment, as everyone knows, the first country to feel the effects of the crisis or the failure to resolve the crisis in zimbabwe is south africa. so i ask you to put things in perspective of the difficulties in this country; i also think that this country is giving this mediation all the care it needs. i naturally share the view of all those involved that this mediation should be extended both for the comfort of south africa and for the balanced perception of the situation by the various actors involved in resolving this crisis. finally, in response to a question that has been raised, we are preparing a genuine development and humanitarian package to ensure that, should mr tsvangirai come to power, he will be immediately supported, to give the zimbabwean people reasons to believe in this change of government and, perhaps, to create a certain appetite for regime change on the ground, with the support of local opinion, public opinion and, of course, that of the international community that has been mobilised. the african union is a final point. i would also like to plead for a little understanding. what is the problem for the african union? the problem for the african union, as i said before, is that it has to deal with two different opinions. one opinion is extremely critical, openly critical, of zimbabwe and its virtual president and another opinion is that we need to be more flexible, that sanctions will not help, that sanctions are not necessary. unity is therefore not easy to achieve within the african union; we must know this and that is why we must also read the conclusions of the african union meetings in this perspective, with this look! i must say that the information i have just received leads me to believe that, at any rate, unity is now in motion and that the african union will be able to make useful and effective proposals to get out of this crisis which is, of course, regrettable and a real insult to all those in africa who are promoting democracy and making it progress.
i have received two draft resolutions. see minutes, tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 10 july 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the question to the council (b6-0168/2008). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
member of the commission. - the the question put by mr papastamcu is of course completely irrelevant to the first question we discussed on cars but it is very important and very timely, given the discussion and the decision taken at the g8 yesterday and today. it's a good thing that the g8, the eight largest economies in the world, have agreed to cut carbon emissions by 50 percent by 2050. of course, as i said, this is a half-step, because they haven't agreed on the medium-term goals for 2020, which is necessary for an international agreement to effectively fight climate change. the issue of other large countries, of large emerging economies, such as china or india, i think that was also addressed and discussed. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. i believe that there will be agreements on the long-term objective, where there is general agreement, and on the medium-term objectives, since they are necessary to achieve the result we want in copenhagen in 2009.
member of the commission. − it is very interesting that fiscal incentives were emphasised in the g8 conclusions. in the european union, fiscal incentives could be of great importance in order to promote the purchase of cars which are cleaner. some countries are introducing such measures – france is a recent example, and it appears to have been more successful than expected. we are positive regarding whether industry will be able to achieve the target of 120 g by 2012. it should be underlined that they have known about this target since 1995, and they had a voluntary agreement for achieving 140 g per kilometre in 2008. in any case, according to our impact assessment and to the cost estimates that the industry provided to us, they will be able to achieve this in time. the king report, a very important and interesting study carried out for the ministry of transport of the united kingdom, makes it quite clear that it is technologically and economically feasible to achieve this target in 2012. of course, the concerns of the industry and the specific problems of each particular automobile industry should be taken into account. in any case, it is up to you, the european parliament, and the council to reach solutions that will both achieve our environmental objective and also provide for the competitiveness of the european automobile industry. we think this proposal will give incentives to the automobile industry and it will get the first-mover advantage, and also that european consumers will save by spending less on energy, especially with today’s very high oil prices.
question no 44 by johan van hecke (h-0470/08) subject: policy on biofuels the commissioner has previously stated that the european union must review its priorities regarding biofuels if they proved to be having an adverse impact on the food supply in poor countries. but according to his colleague mariann fischer boel, the impact of biofuel policy on food prices is not so serious. according to the un's special rapporteur jean ziegler, however, the massive production of biofuels is a crime against humanity, in view of its impact on world food prices. the fao likewise states that the rapid rise of biofuels has substantially increased the prices of a number of crops, thus contributing to the current food crisis. according to the oecd, farm prices will rise yet further in the next few years. when will it be clear to the commissioner whether damaging effects are occurring or not? does the commissionintend to conduct research into this and if so, when will the commissioner be able to present an evaluation?
member of the commission. − first of all, in answer to mr allister, when we talk about the dependency within the european union on feedstuffs you are quite right, we are dependent, especially on soya bean imports. that is why we have ongoing discussions as to whether it is possible to find a solution on the gmo issue in order to lower the price on imported soya beans. this is by far the biggest and most important crop for our pork industry. i had hoped to be able to convince the honourable members that we are actually doing quite a lot to push, and to invest in, the second generation of biofuels; because i agree with all of you that the first generation is not a long-term solution. but we need the first generation as a stepping stone for the second generation. if we now send a clear message that we will no longer stick to our target of 10%, i can guarantee that all investments within the european union are going to disappear and the investments will move to south america and we will be depending on importing all our biofuel from brazil produced from sugar cane. then our independence – as we would like to see it – would be much more difficult to fulfil. in relation to the not yet published world bank report – i presume we are in agreement that it is not published, it is leaked – by coincidence, the morning we got the press release on the 75%, the chief economist from the world bank was sitting in my office and he could not confirm the 75%. therefore, i am sure we will return to this issue and i would be very happy, as i said earlier, to discuss this on the solid basis of a published report.
question no 45 by paulo casaca (h-0479/08) subject: execution of the perpetrator of an attack on the united nations according to the enewsletter hands off cain, no 107 of 6 june, leandro despouy, the united nations special rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, has reaffirmed the un’s belief that the iraqi authorities' execution of awraz abdel aziz mahmoud sa’eed for carrying out the attack on the un headquarters in baghdad in august 2003 – which killed, amongst others, sérgio vieira de mello, un special representative for iraq – prevented the international community from learning who the real perpetrators of the crime had been. what steps did the commission take to voice the eu’s blanket opposition to the death penalty? what measures is the commission intending to take to clarify the reasons underlying the speed with which awraz abdel aziz mahmoud sa’eed was executed, despite the express requests made by the united nations, which legitimately wanted to discover the underlying reason for the attack on the un and identify the organisers thereof?
member of the commission. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission, together with the member states, is the leading institutional actor and donor in the fight against the death penalty worldwide. its work in this area is a key priority of the eu's external human rights policy. the general principles for the policy of the european union towards third countries on the death penalty, adopted in 1998 and revised in 2008, set out the criteria for issuing demarches and the standards to be used. the abolition of the death penalty is one of the main thematic priorities for assistance under the european instrument for democracy and human rights. since 1994, the commission has funded some 30 projects worldwide with a total budget of approximately eur 15 million. commissioner ferrero-waldner spoke out categorically against the death penalty, whether in practice or in law, in a public statement on 10 october 2007, on the occasion of the world day against the death penalty and on subsequent occasions. the event referred to in the honourable member's letter is known to the commission. iraq is one of the countries to which the european commission sends frequent demarches on the death penalty. in the present case, the demarche was sent in june 2007. the european union and the commission have repeatedly called on the iraqi government, including the supreme court, to abandon the use of the death penalty and to commute all death sentences handed down and not executed. they also called on the iraqi government to immediately impose a moratorium on all executions. it goes without saying that in the case of the bombing of the un complex on 19 august 2003, such a moratorium would have allowed for a full cross-examination of all persons who could provide any evidence necessary to ensure that none of the perpetrators of the attack would go unpunished. the commission is of course concerned by the haste with which the case was handled. but our main goal is to advocate for the universal abolition of the death penalty. the commission continues to work closely with the member states of the european union in an effort to interpret our position and concerns towards the iraqi side.
member of the commission. - the european commission and the european union are exploring all the options available to us in order to strengthen our capacity to gradually eliminate and reduce the use of the death penalty, particularly in the areas where it is most frequently used, including iraq.
question no 46 by claude moraes (h-0427/08) subject: anti-discrimination horizontal directive the european commission announced that this spring would see the launch of the new horizontal directive prohibiting discrimination. what is the latest development regarding the scope of the directive? will there be a far-reaching anti-discrimination directive including all of the remaining grounds of article 13 of the amsterdam treaty – namely age, disability, religion or belief, and sexual orientation, as supported by a majority in the european parliament? if not, could the european commission give its reasons, and outline its detailed plan of action for the coming months?
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, last week the commission adopted a proposal for a directive prohibiting discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation and religion or belief outside the labour market. discrimination on these grounds in employment is already covered by directive 2078/ec. we have therefore fulfilled the commitment we made to you at the beginning of our term of office and we have heard your repeated calls, lastly at the may part-session, to put forward such a proposal. this proposal for a directive builds on principles already adopted by the member states under existing directives. it includes, for example, provisions to ensure the protection of victims of discrimination and to deal with harassment and bullying, but also provisions on the establishment of equality bodies. as i have already said, the proposal for a directive deals with discrimination on the basis of four grounds of discrimination, but the fact that we put all these grounds on an equal footing does not mean that the provisions for all these types of discrimination are the same. the draft directive therefore takes account of the specific characteristics of each type of discrimination in order to make the directive as effective as possible. in particular, it allows, depending on the context, to take age into account, and to take age and disability into account in the insurance and banking department, to the extent that this is appropriate and justified, but i emphasise the words appropriate and justified. this should not be an arbitrary exclusion of the elderly or disabled from these services. in the case of disability, the principle of equal treatment implies a positive commitment to ensure universal access for disabled persons and, in individual cases, to make appropriate adjustments. these measures do not represent a disproportionate burden, and the proposal for a directive clearly states that account should be taken of the size, type and resources of the organisation, the estimated costs, the lifetime of goods and services and the likely benefits of disabled access. this proposal represents an important step towards filling a large gap in the legal system for protection against discrimination. we are aware, however, that protection against discrimination based on sex is still not as strong outside the workplace as it is in the case of racial discrimination. directive 2004/113/ec does not cover the field of education, as can be read in the explanatory memorandum to this proposal. we believe that it would be premature to propose an amendment to that directive, as the deadline for its implementation has only recently expired. but in 2010, when we report on the implementation of the directive, we can propose an amendment if necessary.
member of the commission. - it is clear that a directive of this kind, which is fundamental and protects the fundamental values of the european union, the european community, is viewed from a number of angles and that there is, of course, frequent pressure to limit its effectiveness for a variety of reasons. the commission is aware of this, which is why we have tabled this comprehensive proposal and we are of course prepared to defend it against any unjustified objections in the further discussion.
member of the commission. − in general, the directive protecting workers in the labour market also protects them against age discrimination. i cannot comment specifically on the statement in the british press, because it always depends on the specific circumstances of the case, but i can say in principle that the directive has no exceptions in this respect, it has no exceptions that protection no longer applies from a certain age.
question no 47 by brian crowley (h-0433/08) subject: supplementary pensions and mobility across the eu today, changing job or country often means losing occupational pension benefits in some member states. the ‘portability of pensions’ directive (2005/0214(cod)), proposed in october 2005 and now amended, will bring more flexibility into the conditions regarding acquisition of pension rights and vesting (such as different qualifying periods before which workers acquire rights) and preservation of dormant pension rights (such as pension rights losing value over time), as well as improving information for workers on how mobility may affect supplementary pension rights. can the commission inform us when it envisages agreement on this directive and provide a timeline for its implementation, in the interests of eu citizens’ being able to move freely within the eu without having an additional worry regarding pensions?
member of the commission. − first of all, i am very grateful that this important issue has been raised and for the efforts of the european parliament to make progress. i am of course also very grateful for the efforts of the slovenian presidency and others to reach an agreement. however, it is disappointing that no agreement has been reached. the question that remains is the core of the problem: the removal of the obstacles to the free movement of workers caused by supplementary pension schemes. the ability to easily change jobs or to hire the right person with the right skills is more important than ever in today's ever-changing world. the promotion of adaptability of workers, the flexibility of labour markets and the modernisation of social protection systems are also key elements of the lisbon strategy. it is quite clear that if we ask people to be more flexible and more flexible, it is also clear that they must not lose social protection in return. the case of supplementary pension schemes is a typical example of the flexicurity strategy advocated by the european commission. the commission has made a great deal of effort to find a solution to the pension supplementary insurance problem, and has tried to find a compromise, which unfortunately has not been found so far. but given the importance of this issue both for the general social rights of workers and for the development of pension systems, and for an appropriate response to democratic ageing, the commission remains ready and will not relent in its efforts to find a compromise that will eventually become the basis for a comprehensive solution. we are not yet at that point, because this decision requires unanimity and there has been no unanimity in the council so far, but the objective of improving the supplementary pension situation remains the commission's objective.
member of the commission. - i can only say that mr crowley has, in a few words, made a fairly perfect analysis of the problem. yes, that's exactly what it is. and that's why we're staying active. this is not a closed question for the commission.
member of the commission. you are absolutely right, the council's deliberations are deliberations on any fundamental political consideration and they are not secret deliberations. the opinion of all the member states was gradually formulated, with the exception of the federal republic of germany. that is the situation, but it does not mean that, as i said, we are not at the end of the road and will look for other ways and options to reach unanimity. i want to emphasize that the systems in the member states are of course different and that the decision on them is not a technical matter of secondary importance, so i fully understand that the member states are taking this matter seriously, but as i said, this is the situation at the moment.
question no 48 by robert evans (h-0443/08) subject: medical support across the eu can the commission clarify exactly what entitlements to medical support eu citizens have when travelling to another member state? does the support provided by the european health insurance card apply to all age-related illnesses? as the methods of financing health services vary from member state to member state, what procedures are in place to enable a fair and equitable system that provides proper support for all those in need? what arrangements are in place for those travelling to tax havens such as andorra, the channel islands, lichtenstein, etc., which are surrounded by the eu but are not themselves deemed eu territory?
member of the commission. − if you have mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the holder of a european health insurance card is considered to be insured under the legal system of the member state to which he has travelled. in accordance with article 22 of regulation no 1408/71, this card is valid for temporary residence for any purpose: tourism, employment or study. if the holder requires medical care during the stay, the card shall allow such care to be provided by medical professionals. the healthcare covered by the european health insurance card is 'essential healthcare'. this term, which depends on the patient's state of health and the expected duration of the stay, was defined by the administrative commission on social security for migrant workers in 2004. this is the treatment that must be provided to a person temporarily staying in the territory of another state in order not to put his life in danger and at the same time not to be forced to return prematurely to his country in order to provide the necessary medical assistance. in any case, these criteria must be used by the healthcare professionals depending on the patient's medical condition and the length of the patient's stay. the administrative commission on social security for migrant workers has also adopted guidelines to ensure that the term is interpreted in a uniform way by all stakeholders (healthcare providers, insurers and health insurance companies). these guidelines are available on the europa portal. a pensioner spending three months with his children or a student using the erasmus programme will thus have access not only to emergency healthcare but also to care that would be available to persons residing in the same situation in the member state concerned. the system of access to health care, as laid down in article 22 of regulation no 1408/71, provides for access to and payment for health care in accordance with the legislation of the state in which the patient is staying. it follows that persons who are temporarily resident in a state have access to healthcare in that state under the same conditions as persons who are part of the health insurance system of that state. article 22 of regulation no 1408/71 also applies to the states of the european economic area, including liechtenstein and switzerland. as regards andorra, the ongoing negotiations have not yet been successfully concluded.
member of the commission. - you have asked a number of questions which clearly require a comprehensive answer, but i would simply answer the first question as follows: this morning we discussed regulation 883, which will be a substantial amendment to regulation 1408 and will undoubtedly improve the situation for many people, particularly in terms of crossborder contact. if you've opened up the question of medical tourism, i think it's a term that is very open and it's so open that it's dangerous. it is necessary to clarify very carefully what this is, because it is a concept that can take on a special significance in our view, although in reality, in my opinion, genuine medical tourism is very limited, because in most cases, when people are really suffering, they try to be in their immediate environment and the systems of the various member states do not differ substantially in their basic level. it is clear, of course, that regulation 1408 and future regulation 883 deal mainly with the huge amount of cases which are related to tourism, but not to medical tourism, because they concern people who have gone primarily somewhere else and something happened to them on the way. that's hundreds of thousands and millions, maybe even about a million cases a year, and it's a thing that's being handled quite well and doesn't compromise the stability of health systems. as for the commission's will to improve matters in this area, that will is obvious and one of the proofs is also the amendments tabled by my colleague, mrs andrulla vassillia. i think this will be an opportunity to discuss in great detail the possibilities of crossborder care and the other aspects that are associated with it, but let me once again express a considerable distance from the concept of medical tourism or medical tourism, because in my opinion it is a very poorly defined concept that can provoke reactions that are not adequate to the situation.
i would like to inform you that the time limit for questions to be put to commissioner špidla has expired. the answers to questions 49 to 54 will be sent to the members in writing.
question no 55 by eoin ryan (h-0439/08) subject: reporting burden of small and medium enterprises i welcome the recent initiative taken by the commission to reduce the statistical reporting burden on businesses, especially small and medium enterprises. however smes still face large reporting burdens, such as vat reporting, that cost many man-hours and that put small businesses at a competitive disadvantage. does the commission have any proposals in the pipeline that will reduce red tape and the reporting burden for smes?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i am very grateful to you, mr president, for this question, because it deals with a problem which has been the subject of intense attention by the commission for many years: how can we avoid unnecessary bureaucratic burdens on small and mediumsized enterprises in europe? and i'm very happy to tell you that we have indeed made tremendous progress in this field, and that i firmly believe we are on the verge of a real breakthrough. we have identified bureaucratic costs for european companies as essentially those arising from reporting, documentation and information obligations. we are now in the midst of the largest action of this kind in history to actually measure these costs, to actually look at the costs of these regulations in the companies, so that we can identify where the costs are coming from and whether we can reduce them. so you can expect, mr president, that from about september this year onwards, the commission will be making a large number of proposals, based on the results of the measurements and the screening of all the existing rules. our expectation is that this will enable us to make so many proposals to you by the end of 2009 that the bureaucratic costs for european businesses will be reduced by 25% in 2012. we expect this to result in a growth spurt of between 1.4 and 1.5% of the total gross national product of europe. so you see, we're really talking about significant scales here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. of the normal costs of bureaucracy, namely the burden imposed on small businesses in particular by tax requirements - you know that the european union's powers are extremely limited here - i can tell you that we know from all our research that the burden imposed by the requirements of the financial authorities is by far the most important and strongest for companies themselves, so that the member states are really called upon to simplify. we have only a very limited competence in the area of turnover taxes. the commission has, however, made a very important proposal which would be of great help to small and mediumsized enterprises, namely to raise more significantly the threshold above which vat pre-registration must be made. the threshold is currently set at eur 20 000, but we want to raise it to eur 100 000, so that almost all very small businesses, and above all newly created ones, will be relieved of this heavy burden. i regret to say that the member states have not been ready to accept this proposal. i hope that the small business act, which the commission has put forward a few days ago, when we have raised the subject again, will increase the pressure on those member states which are having difficulties here, and i am extremely grateful to the european parliament for the support which it has already signalled on this point on several occasions.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, as i said, this is an official proposal which the commission adopted back in 2004. and since 2004 this proposal has not been adopted by the council. i have pointed out that we have now renewed the proposal in connection with the small business act, we are practically putting it back on the table now. this is not an announcement; the commission has already proposed this. she thinks it's necessary. mr špidla has already pointed out in another reply that unanimity is required on certain questions. we have the requirement of unanimity here too, and unfortunately it could not be achieved. but i do not need to tell you, as the representative of ireland, that for a number of member states taxation in the european union is a taboo.
i'm not going to let you do this. i have a favor to ask. if all these studies are done, what are the costs of doing business for small and medium-sized businesses? if you could look at this world bank report, which was about two years ago, that indicated these costs. it shows that poland, for example, has very low legal costs, which turns out not to be true. i have a request about that, because that's not a question. can you not look at what the officials are saying and officially look at the actual cost? all the stamps that have to be paid for, every letter that's filed. there's a lot of extra work to do.
vice-president of the commission. − the measurement project we are currently carrying out and which is about to be completed will give us precise information on which european regulations cause which costs. we will be able to say quite precisely: this specific european regulation is causing these and those costs for businesses. we already know a lot of things. we know, for example, that most of the costs come from a very small number of regulations. there are only about 42 directives, from which the vast majority of the regulations originate. we also know the area which is causing the greatest costs, namely european company law, and that is why we have already made the first proposals in this area. we also know that the costs vary greatly depending on the size of the companies. and we can assume as a rule of thumb that the smaller a company is, the greater the relative burden of bureaucratic costs. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. but we know all this already and it will be taken into account in the proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to ask parliament: the success of the whole operation will of course depend very much on parliament's swift consideration of the commission's proposals. there is a general political agreement on this, and i would just like to remind you that these are all amendments to existing legislation, which therefore require the agreement of the two co-legislators.
question no 56 by colm burke (h-0448/08) subject: price of fertiliser the price of fertiliser has gone up dramatically over the last 12 months. ammonia phosphate, for instance, has increased from eur 181 per tonne to eur 800 per tonne in wholesale markets. does the commission plan to take any action to counteract this price hike?
vice-president of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i share your concern about the development of fertiliser prices. these prices have indeed increased disproportionately. this is understandably causing great problems and great concern to european agriculture. the increase in fertiliser prices is due to a strong increase in demand, and this higher demand is associated with higher transport and energy costs. so there are three factors: higher demand due to rapid growth in other parts of the world, higher energy prices and higher transportation costs. the increase in demand is a worldwide phenomenon, as you know, affecting not only fertilisers but also a whole range of other goods, including crops and food. it's important to remember that. because it is true that european farmers have to spend more money on fertilisers. they do. but they also get higher prices for their crops. fao statistics for a comparable period show that food prices have increased by 37% over 12 months. the most significant increases were in milk products, 80 to 200%, and in cereals, 50 to 80%. the commission considers that compliance with the competition rules is crucial. as long as this is the case, the commission does not consider it appropriate to intervene in a market whose recent development is largely due to factors beyond the commission's control. once again, we have no influence on the three decisive factors which have led to price developments. with a view to longer-term developments, the commission also stresses the importance of promoting competition in the natural gas market. i see here an opportunity to relax a little. if the measures proposed by the commission are adopted under the third energy package, we should get cheaper prices on the gas market. and this could also lead to a fall in the prices of nitrogen fertilisers produced in the european union. but you know that all depends on the adoption of the energy package proposed by the commission.
vice-president of the commission. − as regards russia and ukraine as important suppliers, i must point out that we have trade protection instruments in place for both countries concerning the export of fertilisers from ukraine and russia. and quite simply, both of them can of course offer the fertiliser at a very low price because, as you know, the energy used in the production of this product is particularly high, and in ukraine and russia there are different prices for the energy exported and for the energy used in the country itself. this price difference leads to dumping. and because of this dumping, we have measures in place against russia and ukraine. the commission has little influence on the diversification of supplies. i can tell you from my experience that the major european producers and distributors are naturally seeking to diversify their raw material base. i am prepared to look at this question in particular again.
vice-president of the commission. - mrs fischer boel is here, so i will answer very carefully, because she is actually responsible for the question of the prices that european farmers can achieve. i have assumed from what the honourable member has reported to the commission so far that producer prices are indeed rising for all the major products in the european union. i do not, however, exclude the possibility that you are right in saying that the higher income does not in all cases fully compensate for the increased costs. this is a point which the commission will certainly look into. as regards the overall development of the food sector - we are not just talking about producer prices here, we are also concerned about what the consumer ends up paying in the store - we have just launched an initiative a few weeks ago and set up a high level group to look at the future of the european food industry, which, by the way, is not well known, but is the largest industry in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this high level group we are dealing very specifically with price developments and will be able to complete the work by the end of the year and make recommendations accordingly.
question no 57 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0457/08) subject: policy in favour of small enterprises as part of an open single market which encourages small enterprises, will the commission say commission proposes to ensure that new technologies are used to benefit them and what practical benefit they derive from research programmes funded by the european union in the 27 member states?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i am very grateful for your support. i knew it. i knew i could count on you. you can count on me, too. as regards the question of network density, i must admit that we have not yet reached the density we want to achieve throughout europe. but in the final stage of expansion, which we will reach over the next five months, all regions in europe will be covered by these facilities. there will be contact points in all regions, so close to the enterprises that it will not be difficult for anyone to reach these contact points.
question 58 by mr heaton-harris will be answered in writing.
member of the commission. − if you look at the proposal on the health check, it actually contains a number of actions to the benefit of the sheep and goat sector. first of all, we clearly state that it will be possible to maintain a coupled payment for the sheep sector because we are aware of the fact that it is a vulnerable sector. it is desperately important that we maintain some production in those regions where, if sheep production disappears, probably nothing will be left, so a coupled payment could be a solution. i have to say, regarding the new article 68, that it is a voluntary possibility for member states to use and to top-slice up to 10% of the direct payment, and then, according to the decisions by the member states, to transfer some of that money into the sheep or goat sector. the possibility of coupling the payment is valid both for suckler cows and for sheep and goats. i am not sure if i understood the next question completely, but if you look at the budget – the overall budget for agriculture agreed by heads of state in 2002 – this budget was fixed but adjusted with an inflation rate of just 1%. the honourable member is right that we have an inflation rate higher than 1%, especially these days when we have high oil prices and high food prices so, yes, you can say the value of the entitlements is not completely following the value of other products. but this was a decision that was taken by the heads of state, and therefore the present situation, especially in some sectors where we see an increase in prices diverging from what we have seen throughout the last 30 years, namely that prices are now starting to increase, is a sound signal for those that are going to make a living out of it. i would say to mr gklavakis that we have had lots of discussions, and i always enjoy discussing this with him. i think he can go back to his constituency saying that he is fighting like a lion to maintain the coupled payment. tobacco production is not sustainable in all areas, but i think that, with the earmarked rural development money for the tobacco sector, it can also mean that those that want to maintain or to stay in business can modernise their tobacco production and maybe at the end of the day have a tobacco production that can be economically viable, because the quality of the tobacco will increase. i think that you have to face reality – the fact that this is not going to be re-opened – and then try to find the best possible solutions.
i'm not going to let you down. you're known for fighting all the time to lower the cost of production in agriculture. i have the following question in that regard. in our country, i.e. in poland, recently the government started to impose additional taxes on farmers who produce rapeseed oil for their own needs and add it to fuel. it's a little bit related to the production of biodiesel. since this is all the same as if we had to pay a tax for drinking our own milk or using our own vegetables or potatoes, will the commissioner help these farmers by continuing their activities without adding an additional tax, as if the oil were bought from outside?
member of the commission. − since entering into european policy i have always been very keen on maintaining subsidiarity. this means that when we talk about taxation we are not discussing a common policy and therefore it is up to the member states to decide on how they manage their taxation systems. therefore, for various reasons, i had better keep out of – i would not say national infighting – but national discussions on how taxation on rapeseed is being managed. i understand your worries, but i would rather stay out of this discussion.
questions left unanswered due to lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i listened carefully to the various speeches. i would like to begin by recalling a little what has already been put on the record. on the fingerprints of the children, it was said that numerical data showed that the quality and reliability of the fingerprints, on a database of 1.5 million visa applicants, were nevertheless of a high standard, and i was told that a technical document had been sent to mrs ludford to support this position. but i really want to tell you, in any case, that i am quite ready to launch the study that you rightly wanted, to see actually how reliable these biometric data are and also their usefulness. i'm very open to that. i wondered, madam rapporteur, madam ludford, whether it was not possible to reach a compromise by distinguishing between the use of fingerprints collected between six and 12 years of age, which were only intended for verification, and fingerprints after 12 years, which could indeed serve other purposes. i will in any case continue to work towards a compromise with the new eu presidency, trying to ensure that parliament's demands are taken even more seriously. on the second point, i.e. outsourcing, we have certainly had a problem with the annex, which lists the minimum requirements to be introduced in contracts concluded by the member states with external service providers. the commission also sent a document listing the various technical means of securing data. i am, however, very attentive to your concerns about data security, and it is true that there may be a risk in a third country of data being seized or searched on the premises of an external service provider. it must be admitted that we must guard against this danger. i hope that the dialogue will continue on this issue. here are some observations. it is true, as mr coelho has said, that perhaps we could try to establish a more - how should i say - linked path between the two texts. i can only confirm to parliament and to the rapporteur, whom i thank for her work, that i am anxious to reach a compromise fairly quickly by asking the council to listen more closely to parliament and also hoping that parliament, in view of the commitments which the commission will make, will show some understanding. at that price, we'll reach a compromise. i would like to stress this a little because we want a vis system which is efficient and fair, and to do that, the problems we have mentioned must be solved, mr president, and i thank the members for their opinions this evening.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 10 july 2008.
the commission is now debating the proposal for a council regulation establishing a temporary special measure to support the restructuring of the european union's fishing fleets affected by the economic crisis (commission fisheries) (com (2008) 0454 - c6-0270/2008 - 2008/0144 (cns)).
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much for all those interventions and for the number of questions that have been placed. i will try to respond to as many of them as i can given the fact that we did not have sufficient time as we usually have within the fisheries committee and in plenary to discuss proposals given the urgent nature of this proposal. on de minimis, as we said in the communication, we will be carrying out the necessary economic analyses in the coming weeks and months and we intend to come forward with a commission proposal, if appropriate, if the economic analysis shows that we can move forward in this direction and if wto rules allow, before the end of this year. the subsequent, quite lengthy procedure involving consultation of the advisory committee of member states and of stakeholders, and the final adoption by the commission will normally take around six months. so we are speaking of a time frame which is quite extensive, it is true. however, i need to underline that the de minimis is not the solution to the restructuring of the fleet which is needed. whether we like it or not we have a situation of significant over-capacity, and unless we address it effectively we are never going to find a permanent solution. it is no use, i have said it on a number of occasions, throwing money at the problem without trying to address the real cause of the problem, and this is what we are attempting to do. we are willing to give assistance immediately and in the medium term to fishers but we are also stressing that there needs to be effective restructuring. otherwise we will need to come back here, year in year out, to discuss the same issue. so i need to make this abundantly clear: the commission is not prepared simply to throw money at the problem. so any form of permanent operating gate to fishers is a non-starter. this is why i need to make it abundantly clear that we need to really address the problem. so that is my answer on de minimis, which we are looking into. concerning market measures, we will be providing more specifics and making the situation much clearer, because there are various fronts on which we intend to deliver on this. first of all we will be making more financing available for pos and other industry associations in order to elaborate fishing plans, marketing plans, quality initiatives, labelling initiatives and inter-branch initiatives. and, as shown in other countries, for example in norway, we can see how pos can work efficiently to assist the catching sector. as we indicated in our communication, these are not new tools or instruments. they are outlined extensively in both the cmo and in the eff. the problem is that, so far, industry and member states have not promoted them sufficiently. with regard to the price monitoring system, again, together with the industry and the member states we will use this additional knowledge to set up monitoring tools along the value chain to help the sector to anticipate price developments more effectively in the future. the commission has launched a study on this issue which will be completed in september. there is political momentum on this issue on a wider level. the recent european summit has supported wider initiatives of the commission for monitoring food prices and price development mechanisms. again, additional funding for a price monitoring system on fish prices will be made available by the budgetary authorities by september. we will start the work immediately, first through launching a pilot project on the scope and modalities of this exercise, and the full price monitoring system should then be defined and become operational before the end of 2009.concerning more control with respect to certification, labelling requirements and mitigating ieu, here again, the commission will give financial support to industry initiatives in the area of market monitoring, and in particular in relation to monitoring the sector’s compliance with legal requirements concerning certification, labelling etc. we plan to launch calls for proposals by the end of 2008 whereby we would invite sectoral organisations to elaborate concrete proposals, and implementation of these projects will start during 2009. then in 2009 we also have the full cmo review. so i will try to give some indicative time-frames with regard to the various market measures that we are envisaging. on the question of the reference period raised by both mrs fraga and mrs doyle, i can repeat again that the preliminary assessment of this suggestion indicates that we can take this on board. we realise that the fuel situation has changed considerably since 2007 and it does seem logical that current realities should be reflected in the aim of this package. we will nevertheless need to ensure that all economic data used for the reference period 2007 to 2008 are an accurate depiction of the economic situation for the fleet and vessels concerned. the mandatory 30% capacity reduction will still be maintained. the possible impact of using the 2008 figures could indirectly lead to more extensive application of the package. so i can confirm that we will be moving forward and taking on board this suggestion that came from the fisheries committee this morning. concerning the point as to whether the proposal attacks the causes of the problem, i would state my belief that in fact there are two primary objectives: tackling over-capacity, as i have just said, so that we can survive in a profitable way long into the future, and also trying to assist fishers to get a fair price for their catch. i have just outlined the measures that we are proposing in this regard. with regard to the question, raised by general morillon, concerning measures which should not be implemented to the detriment of those who have already undergone restructuring, and with regard to the point raised by mr allister and mrs attwooll and others, these are very relevant. i would like to say that in general terms, if there is further reduction of capacity by some member states, this will benefit other member states, because if there is a reduction of capacity with a consequent reduction of effort, there would be more resources and more market opportunities. however, more specifically let me say that the proposed ad hoc instrument to which i will come to soon will be designed in such a way as to set criteria that are needs-based and do not follow the eff so that, for example, the requirements of those who have already undertaken substantial restructurings are recognised and that those who have low eff allocations are also recognised. on the question of social aid, first of all we have to see how this measure will be defined in practice. to the extent that the measure only provides benefits to workers and not to companies, it might be that aid elements are not even involved. therefore that would mean that the process of adoption of this would be faster. if an amendment to the state aid guidelines is required, then we will prepare a commission decision, which normally takes two to three months. concerning the irish court ruling, we shall analyse how the definition of workers as self-employed potentially impacts on the application of this measure, and will seek a solution in order to address the specific problem concerning ireland. on the request that emergency temporary cessation should not be linked to restructuring (which was also raised by mrs doyle), restructuring is relatively loosely defined in our package so there should be ample opportunity for vessels in trouble to adapt to new realities. they can receive aid now, and then they have six months to adapt. this link to restructuring has to be maintained for the emergency package, however, to have the desired result. with regard to the question concerning the financial requirement which was raised by mrs mcguinness, the financial requirement solely for the temporary and permanent cessation of fishing activities is estimated at around eur 1.6 billion. the total financial requirement is estimated to be in the region of eur 2 billion. the current programming of the eff axis 1 for these measures is estimated to cover around eur 600 million with an estimated additional eur 250 million coming from national co-financing. the commission further estimates that eur 550 million will have to come from the programming of eff operational programmes. therefore this would leave a shortfall of eur 600 million. so there is additionality as well. we are not just making use of eff funds. there is an additionality of eur 600 million. a substantial part of this amount could be financed through the unallocated margin under heading 2 of the financial framework ceilings for the years 2009-2010, with the bulk coming in 2009. it is this additionality which could form the ad hoc instrument i referred to before. the ad hoc instrument should be needs-based, so it would not directly reflect the proportionate allocations under the eff but should target those segments of the fleet that need to restructure but which would not find assistance under the eff, either because the eff allocation to the member state concerned is very limited or because it relates to areas which are non-convergence and therefore which have very limited allocations of eff, or because there is enormous demand and therefore the eff falls short. so that is my response with regard to the financial allocations. i would also like to make the point, in regard to the question raised, that while in the short term we are not proposing any miracle solution, we are providing for immediate temporary cessation for three months effective from 1 july 2008 and, as i said, we will be taking a flexible view with regard to the definition of restructuring, whereas with regard to the further temporary cessation provisions, those have to be part and parcel of a fleet adaptation scheme. but with regard to the first three months, as long as there is restructuring in a general way then the entitlement would apply. on the point raised as to whether we can deliver within the time-frame because of conditionalities involved, my response is that most of the conditionalities relate to partial decommissioning which is a new instrument and which was very contentious even in reaching this stage. removing partial decommissioning would remove also most of the conditionalities attached to it. i am sure, however, that this is not what you would want. but i can assure you that the commission will urge member states and the industry to take up the fleet adaptation schemes and to ensure that these are properly monitored and properly implemented so that the time-frames envisaged and the conditionalities set will be adhered to and respected. again i would like to say that it is not true to say that all measures relate to decommissioning of vessels. it is true that there is a continuation of total decommissioning but there is the introduction of partial decommissioning, and partial decommissioning means that we will be removing older vessels and introducing new smaller ones, and in this sense therefore there will be introduction of new vessels with lower capacity in absolute terms. we will have a real effective reduction of capacity but at the same time we will also have properly addressed the fuel problems. there are also measures with regard to engine substitution and with regard to gear and equipment change, and there are the measures that i have outlined concerning the market measures and social aid. so i do not think it is correct to say that what we are proposing is simply a continuation of total decommissioning of vessels. there are various other instruments and i hope that member states will be able to pick from these the ones that would in the most appropriate way address the concerns and realities of the sector. with regard to the point made by mrs stihler concerning the fact that these could be harmful subsidies for new construction, i need to underline the fact that we will not be paying one cent for decommissioning for vessels whose capacity is maintained. what we will be paying is the scrapping aid for total decommissioning and we will be paying scrapping aid for the part that is decommissioned. we are not paying any state assistance for the capacity that remains. we are simply trying to find a solution whereby the necessary restructuring through reducing capacity, which we attempted by virtue of total decommissioning which has not proved too successful, might hopefully be more effectively addressed through this new instrument of partial decommissioning. the combination of partial decommissioning, total decommissioning, retaining vessels in operation with the possibility of engine substitutions, with the possibility of modernisation on board etc., all measures which already exist, and the whole package within a fleet adaptation scheme, could lead to a situation where we effectively bring about the needed reduction in capacity, which would translate to a reduction of effort to meet with the present state of affairs we have concerning the health of fish stocks. i just want to conclude with regard to the original intervention by mrs stihler that i can only repeat the well-known maxim that you are damned if you do and damned if you don’t.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 10 july 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
madam president! i am sorry that i have not been able to take part in the first part of the vote because of the heightened security measures in strasbourg today, which is a very exceptional situation and has happened for the first time in the plenary. i therefore ask for an explanation for my absence from the roll-call vote. since the car that was supposed to take me to the european parliament was more than half an hour late, i ask that you accept this excuse.
madam president! i wanted to explain why i voted against this report. i think that this report is, in fact, in my deepest conviction, one of the most controversial documents to have been adopted by parliament in recent times. the lack of a clear concept of opening up the union to the east, especially in the context of possible future accession of ukraine, is in my view an absolutely sufficient reason to vote against it. i'm not saying that the original draft of this report was absolutely vague. finally, a word to the president: you have given the floor to two people who were not on the record. please observe order.
madam president! i'm one of the authors of this report. i wanted to say that the situation in zimbabwe is like "neverending story". the european parliament is once again speaking out on this issue and i am very pleased that, despite the political divisions, we have been able to speak out with such strength and determination in the face of the scandal that is taking place there. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which i myself prepared.
in writing. - the european union is once again usurping its right to be a separate state. i believe that the conclusion of international agreements is a matter for the state, not for a regional international organisation such as the european union, and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i abstained on the resolution on the situation in china after the earthquake and before the olympic games. i did so because parliament rejected amendments that raised human rights issues in china. as a result, the resolution does not sound as intended by the initiators of this debate. why did parliament not adopt a resolution before the recent european football championship - euro 2008? well, because in austria and switzerland there are no human rights problems. to point out these problems to china in this regard is not anti-chinese, but to expect the minimum standards that our civilization has created to be met.
in writing. mr president, mr brok's report underlines the desire to improve our relations with the east, and that is why i supported it. however, i think that this report is not very clear and lacks the clear concept of the opening of the european union to the east that we are looking for. we expected the former head of the ep's foreign affairs committee to come up with a better document.
in writing. - mr president, i have supported today's resolution because i believe that the violence in zimbabwe should be strongly condemned, sanctions increased and the mugabe regime should be rejected. a state-funded campaign of violence against the political opposition has prevented a free second round of presidential elections.
in writing. - i voted for the zimbabwe resolution. what robert mugabe is doing is unacceptable. i don't call him president because what happened in zimbabwe recently is not an election. i agree with one of the politicians in namibia who says that apart from the traditional diseases that africa has to deal with - like malaria, tuberculosis and aids - the most dangerous disease today, the one that needs to be fought particularly intensively, is the disease of the mugabeni. mugabe has become an enemy of his own people. it's very frustrating when a man who fought for freedom and independence turns over time into a harmful satrap. i hope that africans will open their eyes and understand that people like mugabe are hurting all of africa.
mr president, mr president sarkozy, i have to tell you something. i would like to begin by congratulating you on your new presidency of the european union. it's not going to be an easy presidency. it's a difficult time, but of course i wish you success. ireland has rejected the lisbon treaty. it is not out of the question that he will change his mind in the future, but you certainly cannot influence the irish people's decision by threats. just as the french and the dutch were not threatened when they rejected the treaty three years ago and started the problems we have today. eu countries cannot be divided into better and worse. that is why i thank you for saying today that none of the 27 member states can be excluded from the european family, as perhaps my predecessor, mrs koch-mehrin, would like. mr. president, i have to go. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the recent opening of the labour market in france, including for poles. we've waited a long time for this. much longer than in other countries, but better late than never. in my speech today, i didn't say a word about our biggest european neighbour: ukraine. nevertheless, i hope that the evian summit scheduled for 9 september 2008 will bring us significantly closer to signing an association agreement with ukraine. because the clear signal we are sending is very important to our friends in ukraine right now. especially when the next threat comes from russia. finally, on behalf of the millions of europeans who are affected by the rising cost of living, i would like to thank you, mr president, for your efforts to reduce the vat on fuel. i hope that during your french presidency you will be able to persuade other leaders of this idea, including the prime minister of my country, poland.
mr president, mr president of the french republic, mr president barroso, i agree with the president. this is a difficult time for europe. we all feel it in our own way, including me. when i was in charge of negotiating my country's accession to the european union, i did everything i could to ensure that future european cooperation went well. i would also like to stress that, fortunately, there is no problem today with polish support for the union and the treaty. the treaty was voted in favour by a large majority in the polish parliament, and almost 80% of poles are in favour of membership of the union. i support the president's assessment. we must act in the name and for the benefit of our citizens. we, the politicians, have the energy and climate package as a priority, but we must do everything we can to ensure that its introduction does not hit europeans with high prices and the lack of competitiveness of our economy. you have to accept this package fairly quickly, but it would be bad if speed won and discretion lost. our package is meant to be a testament to our leadership in the fight against global warming. i agree, we need it, first in poznan, then in copenhagen. but this package is not going to be a role model for anyone. no one will follow it if the european economy loses out by implementing it. so i'm glad that the president is seeing these threats and i believe that the rules of emissions trading, because that's what it's all about, will be rebuilt in good faith. we have experience. reach has been substantially amended in parliament, with the council and the commission, to the benefit of all. we can go the same way. mr. president, i have to go. i congratulate you on your european presidency and wish you the best with the two most important issues for the next six months: the treaty and the energy and climate package.
mr. chairman, please! i have good news from poland. mr. president, i have to go. today, the polish parliament is holding a debate that will end with a resolution urging the polish president to fulfill his constitutional obligation and sign the lisbon treaty. this is the will of the polish people, 80% of whom support the european union and are very happy with membership. show me another country where support for the union is so high. this is a signal that poland will honour its treaty obligations. secondly, my request to you, mr. president. i ask you to put the situation of children in the european union on the agenda and to appoint an ombudsman, an ombudsman for children, along the lines of the european ombudsman. we want the council to reach an agreement and accept this institution that europe needs so much.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the french presidency has just set out its objectives. i wish him success. the ultimate objective before you is to strengthen the european union and its capacity to act. in this spirit, non-ratification of the lisbon treaty would be a missed opportunity. europe needs france, especially at this difficult time, france which has converted, together with you, mr president sarkozy, after the french referendum. poland is not the country that is moving europe forward today, but it will be one day, and i believe it will be soon. i hope for your sake that the french presidency, with its policies of european integration, voluntary immigration, enlargement to the balkans, and not necessarily to turkey, will restore the europeans' confidence in europe and their taste for europe.
in writing. i would like to express my hope that the six months of the french presidency will be marked by fruitful and effective work for the benefit of all the citizens of a united europe. i would like to emphasize the importance of agriculture to the european community. for example, in poland in 2005, over 17% of the employed were employed in agriculture. indirectly, the agricultural issue is important for all member states - i am thinking mainly of food security in the context of rising food prices on world markets. i hope that the french presidency will bring a solution to some of the controversial issues concerning the european model of agriculture. europe does not have the climate or the agricultural conditions to give up supporting its farmers altogether. the cost of producing meat, milk and grain will always be higher on our continent than in south america, the united states or australia. it should be noted that these countries also support their farmers. i believe that higher agricultural prices are an opportunity for european agriculture to grow. however, there is a risk that additional income is taken over by intermediaries, e.g. food price increases lead to a disproportionate increase in the price of agricultural inputs. as a result, the surplus income is absorbed by the intermediate branches. agriculture is still an important sector of the economy. the conditions under which it operates today have changed, but the main priorities: ensuring a fair income for farmers and food security remain relevant.
in writing. i thank the president of france for his speech, which touches on many of the union's fundamental problems. it is true that we must think about how to get europe out of the crisis. it is a small consolation that the world is practically in a state of near-crisis. this has important economic and social dimensions. i'm talking about the threat of famine in many parts of the world because of the skyrocketing food prices, and energy security, and the state of the environment. the global financial system is becoming increasingly unstable. why do i stress that? because we can't be overwhelmed. the eu's population of just under 500 million people is less than 8% of the world's population today, and in 40 years' time it will be just under the 5% electoral threshold. our european vision cannot therefore ignore the overriding values associated with the preservation of euro-atlantic civilization. and there's also an ethical dimension. the family, which is the foundation of the european community as a whole, is a small community that needs to be properly cared for in every eu country. we should not forget that. otherwise, we will be lost, as we are now, in using the word "marriage" to refer to relationships that are not marriage. it is true that we need a new legal framework, but it must be understandable to people. it is the citizens of the union who are the subjects of the action of the parliament, the council or the commission. we're just doing our job. that's how we look at the irish case.
in writing. as widely expected, the ratification of the treaty of lisbon is one of the priorities of the french presidency. however, unexpectedly for most observers, the hero of the very beginning of the french presidency was poland, and actually not so much poland as president lech kaczyński. i don't understand the arguments of the polish president who refuses to sign the ratification documents of the lisbon treaty. the treaty was ratified by the sejm and the senate. nothing has happened that could delay the president's signature. for example, the treaty was not referred to the constitutional court. it appears to be a contempt of parliament and a breach of the agreement with prime minister donald tusk. i agree with president sarkozy that this is not a political issue, but an ethical one. poland has negotiated the treaty, signed it and is obliged under international law to undertake the ratification process. i also have great hope that the situation with regard to the ratification of the treaty will change soon and that the mood at the end of the french presidency will be much better than it is now.
in writing. – nobody is able to explain the reasons for the outcome of the referendum in ireland. a norm becomes a law based on universal approval of the people. its sense should correspond to the conviction about the unity of all. your fellow countryman, a thinker resting in the pantheon, rousseau, wrote that ‘any law that the people have not ratified in person is void, it is not a law at all’. that is why the people should control the governments which pose a danger of usurpation of their rights. but how are the people supposed to take control by means of an instrument they do not understand, the structure of which is as complicated and unclear as the recent treaty? i have no doubt that you wish to appear – to paraphrase dominique de villepin – in this ‘temple’ of the european parliament – as a ‘guardian of an ideal and a guardian of a conscience’. i count, however, that you will be more interested in conveying the information about the platforms of shared realisation of european interests to the public opinions, which, in turn, may allow the media to restrain from your private life in order to focus on your political one.
mr. chairman, please! i'm no lawyer, but i believe that decency requires a different kind of behavior than the one exemplified by the applicants. that's one thing. second, if you are absent, there is no reason to doubt that there is a quorum. thirdly, i find it absolutely reprehensible that the human rights issues which are of particular concern to us are being treated in this way, and that the proceedings are being disrupted. i think it's more important to have the spirit of the law than the letter.
mr. chairman, please! it's certainly a procedure that shouldn't be done, but we're reasonable people, too. we have eyes, and i want to be honest with you, there is no quorum. we all see it. we can't fool ourselves. we can't create interpretations that violate the rules and the law. but this is a case too important to ignore. that's why i'm making a specific motion to have the debate. instead, make changes to the rules and not make interpretations that are inconsistent with the spirit of the rules. if we break the rules and the constitution, it means that we ourselves create something that does not serve democracy and we ourselves violate it.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. unfortunately, it is not right for the president of the old union to discriminate against the members of the new union by giving mr posselt, the member from the old union, two votes, while i, as co-author of three reports, cannot even have a single vote on this matter. i think it's discriminatory and totally unacceptable. i'll file a writ of certiorari on this, mr. chairman. it's a very disturbing thing. in this situation, it's not a black and white movie. there are conflicts on the border between india and pakistan, sometimes provoked by the state of pakistan, as we all know. we know of the so-called line of control guarded by the armed forces of both countries. after the last two decades of peace along this border, it was pakistan that renewed its attacks against the state of kashmir. so, please, pay attention to the other side as well. of course, i'm not disputing the grave issue we're talking about here, although the casualties are probably much lower there.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the resolution speaks of facts that are the result of the 50-year conflict over kashmir between pakistan and india. the conflict has been the cause of several wars. the only beneficiary of the conflict was china. indirect participants in the conflict were the russian federation, the united states, arab finance, and china. the united nations played a positive role in easing the conflict. the conflict continues, and the attacks of fundamentalists continue to bring a bloody harvest. and this is the most serious problem of the people of kashmir. victims on the indian side are buried, and on the pakistani side, in many cases, they are the object of revenge. the key role in resolving the conflict and assessing the facts should be played by the united nations, not by us. we feel morally obliged, unless requested by the democratic government of india, to help stabilize the situation in kashmir and to assess the moral conduct of the conflict. i think that having a discussion about this is more of a political statement than a pragmatic action. i'm not supporting the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! the mass graves, the mass burials of thousands of people in jammu and kashmir are freezing the blood in the veins. for us europeans, they remind us of the crimes of germany and the soviet union, the dark side of fascism and stalinism. he revives the memory of the nazi concentration camps and the soviet katyn massacre of polish officers. after the experience of the past and the present, we should do everything to put an end to genocide, and where it has already happened, to commemorate it and give families the right to their ancestors' graves and their reparations. the situation in kashmir requires the provision of the necessary financial and technical assistance to the government of india and the strengthening of the un's influence to normalize the situation in this region of the world.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? in january 2007, the interim government of bangladesh declared a state of emergency in response to the riots, and on june 11 of that year, it adopted a new regulation that restricts human rights by providing a vague definition of a terrorist act. in june, bangladesh witnessed a massive wave of arrests using the extraordinary powers of arrest without warrant when a suspected criminal connection is established. in reality, the arrests concerned the leaders, members and sympathizers of two main opposition groups: awami league and bangladesh nationalist party, which refused to cooperate with the government in organising general elections until their leaders were released from prison. today, the start of negotiations with the awami league is a source of hope. however, the surge in food prices is threatening the stability of the country. elections scheduled for december under these conditions do not guarantee that bangladesh will be able to move towards democracy. we call on the government of bangladesh to lift the state of emergency and respect human rights, which will facilitate the maintenance of democratic standards during the elections. we call for the withdrawal of the armed forces from the activities related to the organization of the elections.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in terms of population, bangladesh is the seventh largest country in the world, with a population of over 150 million. this is a country that gained independence in 1971, but which suffered for 20 years under autocratic, often military, rule. but in 1991, something else began to happen. democracy started there, five percent growth started there. a reputable company like goldman sachs has said that bangladesh is a very good negotiating country when it comes to rapid economic growth. today we are facing a great regression, a political crisis. the army has taken to the streets. moreover, the military would like to change the constitution to introduce, as they claim, their own form of democracy. we've heard that one before. we had the opportunity to experience firsthand what a special form of democracy is. if this new form is to bring the military into politics, then i think it's a very wrong direction.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation in bangladesh has always been very serious, but especially since the year and a half since the state of emergency was declared. as a result, the number of death sentences was increased, and more than 300,000 people were arrested, many of whom were tortured. the problem is, the repression is not going away. over 12,000 people were arrested in the last month and a half. and all of this is happening in a dramatic economic context. prices of rice and basic foodstuffs increased by a third. and this is likely to be accompanied by a massive exodus of 25 million people over the next 40 years. this exodus will be caused by the very likely floods that will result from the rising waters of the bay of bengal. all of this leads to one conclusion: bangladesh is a country that we have to care about, we have to support. we also need to support the economic, economic and democratic transformation of this country - the poorest country in the world.
mr. chairman, please! the problems in bangladesh that we have been addressing for years remain unresolved. the world is learning more and more about the human rights violations in this country. since january 2007, bangladesh has been in a state of emergency. the anti-terrorism decree, which was introduced on june 11, further restricts human rights, becoming another tool of political struggle. in the last year and a half, 300,000 arrests have been made and the death penalty has been expanded. prisoners are being tortured, dying in unexplained circumstances. the bangladeshi government is doing little to support the economy of a country where food prices have risen by more than a third in recent months and where a quarter of the country is at constant risk of flooding and humanitarian disaster. the chance for change in the country is a free parliamentary election preceded by the lifting of the state of emergency. it is essential that the interim government guarantee the freedom of the media and the participation of all ethnic and religious minorities in the country during the pre-election period. the eu should resume its election observation mission in bangladesh as soon as possible, and in the meantime the european commission representation in bangladesh must closely monitor the political situation in the country and the state of respect for fundamental human rights.
mr. chairman, please! the freedom and statehood of bangladesh was fought and paid for by the death of many millions of its citizens. the nation also suffers great losses because of its location and geography. he's been plagued by natural disasters. the country is overpopulated with 1040 inhabitants per square kilometer, unurbanised, with a very low per capita income. it's a difficult country to govern because of illiteracy, lack of roads and communication. it requires constant outside help, including in the creation of an effective democratic system, which is an important and difficult issue in islamic countries. considering effective forms of aid is very important so that bangladesh does not become a totalitarian state. i support the resolution. a debate on democracy can contribute to the positive action of parliament.
mr. chairman, please! the military-backed interim government of bangladesh is arresting thousands of people, including members of the opposition. without charge, they are illegally held in prisons for months. it's done under the guise of fighting corruption and terrorism. the government also persecutes independent media and allows torture. this is the case in a country that is right up there with the poorest and most populous countries in the world. in this context, it is with concern that the european union is giving too little weight to the problems of bangladesh. that needs to change. a good opportunity should be announced by the end of the year parliamentary elections in bangladesh. the european commission and the council should play a more active role in ending the state of emergency and ending human rights violations. the union should place particular emphasis on the forthcoming elections and closely monitor the preparations and the electoral process itself.
mr. chairman, please! it has become the practice of the european parliament to consider cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in plenary sessions and to adopt relevant resolutions. today we are looking at the situation in bangladesh, for example, where elections scheduled for 22 january 2007 were postponed to december 2008 and did not take place. this fact has aggravated the situation, causing on the one hand numerous social and political protests, and on the other hand tightening of legal regulations and countering government forces. the words terrorism, acts against property and persons, and serious crimes are often used as justifications for arrests and court sentences. the discontent is exacerbating the food crisis, causing food spending to rise by as much as 60%. the problem cannot be solved by force or arrests, sentences, or prisons. we need an agreement between the warring parties. such an agreement can bring about democratic elections, and the resolution calling for them makes sense and is supported.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i wouldn't want our debate to be a debate about the death penalty as such. since there is no hiding the fact that there are different opinions on this matter, i think we should talk about a very specific case of a man who was sentenced to death and then seven of the nine witnesses for his prosecution withdrew their testimony. this is a very specific situation. i don't want us to get into an abstract debate about whether the death penalty is an absolute evil or not. i do not want to call on the american authorities to change the law that reinstated the death penalty in 1972, 36 years ago. we're talking about a specific, highly controversial case. it's worth defending mr. davis and showing that there are situations where it's worth intervening. i would be careful not to make generalizations, which is why i did not sign this joint resolution.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 2007, some 1,252 executions were carried out in 24 countries worldwide. the real number was undoubtedly higher. 88% of these executions in 2007 were carried out in china, iran, saudi arabia, pakistan and the united states. i wanted to bring up two issues in today's debate. firstly, i absolutely disagree with what mr ryszard czarnecki said, that this issue is a matter of disagreement within the european union. it's not like that. i would like to remind mr czarnecki of the official position of the roman catholic church, including the personal view of pope john paul ii, who opposed the use of the death penalty. i think that should be a very clear indication to mr czarnecki of the majority position on this issue in the european union countries. the second issue is, of course, the current situation with the troy davis case in the united states, where the death penalty is to be carried out. we must do everything to stop the execution of this death sentence and to allow for a review process and possible commutation to life if he is proven guilty.
mr. chairman, please! our discussion must, of course, turn to the fundamental issue of the general purpose or moral aspect of such a judicial verdict as the death penalty. one of the arguments that i think is very relevant in this discussion is the question of whether someone who has been accused in an absolutely conclusive manner can really be found guilty of the act that they're accused of. in any other situation, there's always a chance to overturn that verdict and get someone back to normal life. in the case of capital punishment, that option is not available. so, in addition to the purely moral, extremely important aspects, this legal aspect must also be considered. especially in this case we're discussing, when there are so many doubts about the merits of the charges.
mr. chairman, please! everyone should have the right to a fair trial. in this case, where there are many doubts about the guilt and seven witnesses have withdrawn their testimony, there is a need to re-examine the case. another issue that has been raised by previous speakers is the problem of the irreversibility of the death penalty. if there's any doubt, the more so the punishment must not be applied.
mr president, i should like to take the opportunity provided by this debate to call for a moratorium on the death penalty for innocent unborn human beings. it is high time civilised countries discontinued the practice of abortion.
mr. chairman, please! in recent days, one of our main political and economic partners, russia, has threatened and intimidated the union with its economic and military potential. these threats are also directed at countries linked to the european neighbourhood policy. is it normal for a partner to resort to such mechanisms in a partnership, and especially in a business (joint construction of gas and oil pipelines)? the european community has 500 million citizens and is the world's largest economy. the fact that a country with many times less potential is mocking the union without resistance shows that it regards us as a weak partner incapable of serious political action. it is good that the treaty of lisbon is not in force, because even individual members of the union would not have had a chance to react with honour.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to tell you about a matter of some concern to my countrymen. well, during a debate on crime in a committee of the house of commons in the united kingdom, a senior british police official said that every pole carries a knife because it is part of the culture of poles, who need to be educated. i want to state as a pole that i do not carry a knife myself and that in the culture of my nation, the use of a knife with a fork is mainly used for consuming dinner. i regret that this statement was made, especially since my countrymen are quite numerous in the british isles and unfortunately more often fall victim to crime than are the perpetrators. and in general, any statement that collectively attributes negative national characteristics to any nation is an act of intolerance and should not take place in a member state of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! today, on the anniversary of the outbreak of the second world war, i would like to appeal to you and all members of the european parliament to support the establishment of 25 may as the international day of heroes of the fight against totalitarianism. this date is not random. on may 25, 1948, the communists murdered the company commander witold pilecki, the only man who had voluntarily gone to the concentration camp to organize the resistance movement there and gather information about the mass murders. he escaped from auschwitz after more than two years, fought in the warsaw uprising, and after the defeat of the nazis, he remained in poland to oppose another totalitarianism, this time the soviet one, which eventually cost him his life. people like witold pilecki deserve to be remembered. it is up to us, the democratically elected representatives of europe, to establish a holiday to commemorate this event. let us hope that when this holiday becomes a reality, on may 25th of every year we will remember only the struggle against the genocide of the past, and the tragedy of totalitarianism will never happen again.
madam president! 87 years ago, the leader of world communism and the soviet union, lenin, made a decision to exclude three regions from georgia, including south ossetia and abkhazia. after nearly 90 years, georgia and europe are paying a heavy price. it so happens that the european parliament is sitting today during the european union summit. so we can say loudly to the leaders of the union that in the name of freedom of nations and human rights we cannot agree to russian aggression against georgia. this is the first case in europe since world war ii, besides of course the soviet aggression against hungary in 1956 and czechoslovakia in 1968, where a big state invades a small state. but it's also the first time in 60 years that a large country has taken over a small country's territory through military action. after all, the declaration of the supposed independence of abkhazia and south ossetia is a political theater directed by mr. putin. the european parliament should express its solidarity with georgia and the peoples of the caucasus today.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the extension of the schengen area has removed border controls in most of the eu and made day-to-day travel within those borders quicker and easier for our citizens. it also means, however, that non-eu citizens entering the schengen area are effectively only checked once, at the external border. while our citizens often equate illegal immigration with dramatic scenes of unseaworthy and overcrowded vessels breaching our maritime borders, or container-loads of unfortunates – victims of human trafficking – crossing land borders, the reality is much more complex. about 50% of illegal immigrants enter the eu legally, but fail to leave our territory on expiry of their visas. secondly, incidents of falsified documents are widespread, especially at airports. in order to reduce the number of overstayers, as well as to decrease the risk of granting access to persons with falsified documents, a harmonised and secure system for checking visa validity and taking fingerprints will apply in the schengen area. however, as all our citizens who travel are well aware, increased security leads to increased inconvenience and waiting times at borders for bona fide travellers. therefore a degree of pragmatism is also necessary. if there is deemed to be no risk related to internal security and illegal immigration, and traffic at a border is of such intensity that waiting times become excessive, then the need to take fingerprints may be waived. this more flexible system may operate for a maximum of three years, after which an evaluation of its effectiveness will take place. while we aim to make europe secure, we need at the same time to be welcoming to business travellers and tourists alike. i believe that the proposed visa information system has struck the right balance between those two objectives.
on behalf of the uen group. - i'm not going to tell you. mr president, mr minister, i have to go. russia is not implementing three of the six points of the agreement negotiated on our behalf by president sarkozy. it has thus forfeited its right to be a partner of europe. that is why the credibility of the european union is also at stake in this dispute. humanitarian aid, reconstruction of georgia, visa agreements, trade agreements - that's not enough. russia needs to feel what self-isolation is like. otherwise, we won't even give her a chance to revise her policy. otherwise, we'll be reinforcing her belief that she's entitled to everything. the sense of growing political and economic isolation ahead of the next presidential election in 2012 is the only chance for doubt and division in the power camp in moscow. this aggression must not pay off in moscow. we need to revise our energy policy. dependence on russia is already limiting europe's room for manoeuvre. do we want to go deeper into this process? member states should abandon the construction of the northern and southern gas pipelines as soon as possible. if we don't draw these far-reaching conclusions, we risk being marginalized and ridiculed.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i come from a country whose history is marked by war and suffering. poland supports endeavours for peace everywhere. it is imperative that this goal be achieved. the east european countries, the so-called ‘baltic states’, inspired by their leaders, want the european union to show that russia will pay some unspecified price for its military action in georgia. this can be depicted as a classic example of political orthodoxy which assumes that russia pursues nothing but imperial goals. this traditional mindless attitude to russia, full of empty platitudes, seems to be humiliating because it can be perceived, for example by russia, as a clinical example of a response by a few hot-headed politicians. the european union needs russia as much as it needs georgia, if not more. therefore, it is imperative that the european union should not be a party to this conflict or take sides with either russia or georgia. the european union must show the world that its policy is independent of the united states and, at the same time, is a friendly policy based upon a full partnership. russia is the eu’s third-biggest trading partner, accounting for half a trillion dollars in european goods. can we afford to risk that kind of relationship? there is no doubt that the european parliament is a genuine co-legislator with the council under the codecision procedure. however, is it really an equal partner in the matter of the eu’s foreign affairs? minister, you spoke to us after everything seems to have been decided on georgia. let me ask then: is the voice of the european parliament supposed to mean nothing? what is this debate for when everything has been arranged and done?
on behalf of the ni group. - i'm not going to tell you. the outbreak of fighting in the caucasus is closely linked to the kosovo issue. the opponents of the dismemberment of serbia, of which i am one, have been warning from the beginning that the unilateral decision of the kosovar albanians, supported by washington and many european capitals, opens a pandora's box and will revive many similar conflicts in the world. like the one in georgia where president saakashvili ordered the attack on civilians in ossetia. and yet the abkhaz and ossetians are peoples who have lived on their lands for centuries, have their own culture and national identity and have repeatedly fought for the independence that stalin took from them before world war ii. but serbia and georgia are the best example that in the international arena they are simply equal and more equal, and international law is interpreted by the stronger allies. and with the support of many in this room, the european order has been demolished. let us restore peace in europe, the international legal order, let us restore this order! the countries that supported the break-up of serbia should withdraw their recognition of kosovo, and russia's recognition of ossetia and abkhazia. because if the dismemberment of serbia, as recognized by the us and much of the eu, is a good thing, why would a similar operation in georgia be a bad thing? i would like to say: you're not supposed to be so hypocritical.
ladies and gentlemen! i remind you that the time allotted to you was allotted by the political groups. you have chosen to accept minute-long speeches, and that requires extraordinary discipline of speech. so, if you'll excuse me for interrupting, i'm not going to be able to do this.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the french presidency on the completion of this task. i think that a long way has been traveled between europe's position on iraq and its attitude today to the caucasus crisis. - thank you. the union, through its presidency, has been more efficient and faster than washington. all this is positive, but the questions remain: first, how to minimize the suffering of the population; second, how to get the russians to play by the rules and how to have a longer-term strategy towards russia? i welcome the measures and the text by the council with moderate optimism and satisfaction. it contains all the main elements of condemnation and action, including the more generous offer in terms of community assistance and a potential esdp mission. but i would say to the presidency that it is just an hors d'oeuvre. it's just an appetizer, an entree. we are waiting for the main course, which will be peace and stability in the region, and the longer-term strategy of the european union in this caucasus region. we need to make every effort to make russia understand that it has a choice: either to cooperate with the eu as a responsible partner assuming its obligations and commitments and fully respecting the sarkozy six-point plan, or to expose itself to the condemnation of the international community, which may evolve into ostracism, and eventually into isolation encompassing a set of appropriate measures to be taken if the need arises. we, the union, also have a choice either to be satisfied with our verbal actions and avoid measures which russia would understand, or to revise, if necessary, our policy towards russia, making clear that we can be both assertive and respectful in the event of non-compliance by russia with the rules which we expect... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. russia's actions are essentially an attempt to return to the imperialist policies of the former soviet union, an attempt to impose its own political vision on independent states. what should be europe's response to these actions? i think, first of all, we should make it clear to russia, clearly and with one voice, that there is no going back to the policy of zones of influence. there is no going back to imperialist politics, no going back to facts made, no going back to the use of force in international relations. this message to russia must be delivered in a clear, unambiguous and united voice. we must make it clear to russia that aggression does not pay. and secondly, the union should take long-term action in two directions. the first line of action is to reduce our energy dependence on russia drastically. i don't want, and i don't think anyone in this room wants to be blackmailed for gas or oil by russia. we don't want our political actions, our defence of our principles and values, to depend on the supply of gas or oil. and the second area of action, the strategic one, is the european offer to the post-soviet states. this is not only the case for georgia, but also for ukraine and other countries. we have an offer that is far more attractive than the model of civilization that russia is proposing. i am very pleased that these conclusions have been included in the minutes of today's summit and i believe that this is the right direction for the future.
mr. chairman, please! we all had a dream that russia would be a developing country, a democracy, respecting certain principles on which the european union is also built. that dream has to be put on hold. the situation is very different now and i am pleased to announce that the talks on the partnership agreement and the summit will be suspended until russia fulfils its commitment under the signed documents. but i think that this suspension should be longer, that we should start to reflect within the union on what kind of relations we want to have with russia. can we continue to talk about a common security space with russia? can we call russia our strategic partner when that partner respects completely different values? and finally, the second issue, namely the issue of our energy security. we've been saying, like, a mantra all along, how important, like, the nabucco pipeline is. we need to support this not just with words, but also with money.
mr. chairman, please! the european summit can be seen as a glass half-empty or half-full. the important thing is that we have reached an agreement, that the union has spoken with one voice. it is disappointing, however, that this common position of the council does not go far enough, as far as the majority of votes in this house. during the russian offensive in georgia, russian media showed president putin finding time to go to siberia and put to sleep a tiger that was threatening the local population. this picture is a good illustration of russia's actions and the european subject of those actions. but the european tiger has not been the only one to be given a sleeping injection in moscow. in this context, how can the nord stream and south stream projects and the support for them by some eu countries be assessed? lack of solidarity and dependence on the aggressor always provide incentive for the aggressor, especially if the comfort of one partner is paid for by the other. today's verbal unity of the union towards russia, the emphasis on the eastern partnership and other provisions are encouraging signals, but if it ends with words, the aggressor may strike again.
today is the anniversary of the outbreak of world war ii. it was immediately preceded by a secret soviet-german agreement, but also by the conciliatory policy of the western european states. in 1939, it was naively believed that the sacrifice of selected smaller states would satisfy the aggressor. i recall this during the war in georgia, which became the first target of the attack on the path of the reconstruction of the imperialist deeds of today's russia, the heir to the soviet union. russia is testing the patience of the european union countries on the georgian test site, anticipating their lack of resolve. in the face of armed conflict, the european parliament cannot fall into this trap, but must find a common, unambiguous and decisive position. georgia has the right to count on our help, both diplomatically and materially. the european parliament should send its own observers to georgia to verify reports of ethnic cleansing. we must do everything we can to stop the expansion and prevent a repeat of the tragic lesson of history.
mr. chairman, please! the council reached a compromise on russia today, and it can be considered a success, although the leniency with russia has disappointed many. we'll wait for moscow's reaction. i'm sure the russian press will quote these excerpts from our debate, in which the council representative and the parliamentarians blamed georgia. moscow is publicly critical of the council's position, although it will be quietly pleased with it. gentlemen from moscow! don't get excited before your time! europe no longer sees you as a reliable partner who keeps his word and respects international law. europe is seriously considering whether to become dependent on russian oil and gas. europe has not been too hard on you today, but the number of russophiles has decreased considerably.
president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, dear benita, ladies and gentlemen, i will be brief because bernard kouchner has already spoken twice and i know that you too have a lot of work to do. i would like to begin by thanking you for your constant involvement in this matter at the end of this debate. the resolutions adopted, the fact that president wolski convened the committee on foreign affairs on 20 august and the fact that mrs isler béguin - as she recalled - was present and that her testimony was strong vis-à-vis this institution and, moreover, vis-à-vis the european union, have shown the involvement of the european parliament in this crisis. this leads me to say that i was surprised to see some comments on the european union: firstly, that it did not react; secondly, that it was powerless; thirdly, that it adopted a weak position. if the european union has not been influential, if it has not played a role in this matter, i would like to know who has? who was powerful? who have demonstrated themselves, whether in military or otherwise? i have not seen any other power than the european union in this context and it is during this crisis that perhaps, in a new light, the european union has asserted itself as a partner and as a power. everyone has responsibilities: the european union has responsibilities, not those of nato or the united states, but it has, with its values and its means - i will come back to this - fulfilled all its responsibilities. we are told that russia does not share the values of the european union, but this is not a new discovery. it's not a scoop, though. we know that russia does not share the same values as the european union. if it had the same values as the european union, we would have asked and asked other questions about russia. all that is at issue with regard to russia is what kind of relationship we want to have with this neighbour, what kind of partnership we want to have, what kind of dialogue we should have and how to get russia to fulfil its duties, to assume its responsibilities and to get it back on a path more in line with international law. that's what this is about. i, for one, have never considered that we have the same values, however much respect i may have for russia, and i have known that for some time. the third point you have made, and all of you have made it, is that we cannot go far enough, despite a rapid reaction, despite what has happened today, because we do not have the instruments, we will only have these instruments within the framework of the lisbon treaty, and the fact that there is this crisis shows perfectly how much we need this treaty, how much we need to strengthen ourselves in foreign policy, how much we also need to strengthen ourselves in defence policy. we must be quite clear about this, as many of you have rightly pointed out. i'm going to the council. today's council is a starting point. it does not sum up everything and it will not sum up everything in relation to the european union's handling of this crisis and the eu's relations with russia. today's meeting was to take stock of the situation on the ground and to assess the consequences between the european union and russia. what it was about was showing that we were united and that we were active in this conflict. this european council has shown that we are united, that we have acted and that we have strong guidelines. i would remind them: condemn the disproportionate reaction of russia; support to georgia in the financial, humanitarian, economic and political fields; affirmation of the strengthening of the relationship between the european union and georgia; implementation of the six-point plan for resolving the conflict, of which - as several of you have stressed - there is an international mechanism; the engagement of the european union in the field through the deployment of a special representative; strengthening the eastern partnership, in particular with regard to the black sea area and ukraine this was explicitly underlined in today's conclusions ; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources. i have heard everything that has been said this evening: you can be sure that the french presidency will remind everyone of its desire to have a much more diversified, independent and better structured european energy policy. you can count on the presidency to do that. this is a starting point because it was noted that a major visit of the president of the council of the european union, the president of the commission and the high representative would take place on 8 september in moscow and tbilisi and that it is in this context that we will have to assess the subsequent actions we will have to take. finally, we agreed that all meetings on the partnership agreement were postponed until the russians withdrew from their previous positions. so that's a starting point. we did not intend to solve everything today, but it is also a symbolic point of our unity and determination, and for that we need the support of the european parliament.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i will try to be as brief as possible as the last speaker. but i would like to take up a few of the main points, since i am the last speaker. first, can you remember that on september 1, 1939, world war ii began? and today we are celebrating the anniversary of a new war that has broken out, but which we, as the european union, have been able to contain very quickly. i think that is a key point. so it was a broad, long debate, but it was a good debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the credibility of the european union plays a major role here. and i was able to say with the president of the council that these two are on the test, but so far we have passed that test. georgia action is important, we've heard. we have listed actions in the humanitarian field, in the field of reconstruction aid, where we will again turn to parliament. i thank parliament for its support and will of course come back with more precise figures. i am thinking in particular of the visa agreement. of course we know that there is discrimination here because abkhazia and south ossetia, many of which have russian passports, are in a better position than georgians, but many of the individual member states have to play their part in this - i should like to stress this again - just as in a free trade agreement. i would remind you that we have already discussed three points in connection with the strengthening of the european neighbourhood policy. but they were not very popular with the member states at the time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are at a fork in the road, at a crossroads, but it will be russia that will determine this, because it will be russia that has to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be russia that will have to respond, and it will be exactly as we have said today: no further negotiations on the new agreement without withdrawal of troops. russia has the right to follow what we have discussed today. i very much hope that a good solution will be found on 8 september. there are two main consequences: we must strengthen the neighbourhood policy plus, or whatever we call it in the future, both regionally and bilaterally, that is to say, we must go beyond georgia, that is to say, ukraine, moldova, but also the other countries. we have repeatedly raised this, but here too i can perhaps count on more support from the individual member states. finally, i would like to say that i have been particularly concerned about energy policy for the last year and a half and i can assure you that it will continue to be a very important issue for me personally in the future. i was trying to make a quick bow with it. it was a long one, but it was a very important debate. (applause from the centre)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in recent weeks, we have witnessed russia's aggression against a sovereign and independent state. we are witnessing the occupation of territories hundreds of miles from the theater of war and the open mockery of the promises made to the west. i believe the russian attack was provoked as much by georgia's european aspirations as by its desire to control the country's energy supply routes. it is our moral and political duty to support the georgians and to make russia realize that the time when it could do whatever it wanted in the areas it defined as its "zone of influence" is gone forever. recent events have also made it clear that russia cannot be a reliable partner in energy relations. russian control of oil and gas supplies makes us hostages of the kremlin. so the biggest challenge we face right now is to become independent of russian resources. how we do that is a secondary issue at this point. but if we continue with investments like nord stream and south stream, we will be giving the russian authorities new and powerful tools of influence over the european union. and the russians will have no qualms about using them at the appropriate time.
in writing. in my opinion, extreme caution should be exercised in assessing the georgian-russian conflict. there is no doubt that russia violated the principles of international law by invading the territory of georgia. i also strongly condemn the disproportionate response of russia. at the same time, it should be remembered that the georgian side is not without fault either, as it was it that initiated the military action. the use of military force is not the solution to any of the conflicts. the european union has played a very important mediator role in this situation. in my opinion, it was right to condemn russia's recognition of the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia. the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia should be respected. i think that in the present situation it is appropriate for the european union to send a peace and monitoring mission to south ossetia. the current situation shows the importance of continuing to strengthen cooperation with the neighbouring countries of the black sea region. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in georgia.
we are now returning to the debate on the jean lambert report on the evaluation of the dublin system.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, this debate is obviously very important and it has been interrupted, but that is the way it is. in any case, i am also convinced that providing europe with a truly harmonised right of asylum will also be a major response to the problems which have just been raised in the previous debate. i would like to briefly quote a few expressions. it is true that the system today is not 'fair' in that asylum seekers, depending on the member state to which they apply, do not always receive the same answer. you were right, madam, to point out how some countries were much more open, much more generous than others. we therefore need this harmonization. we also need to address a number of issues that concern us, such as the problem of unaccompanied minors. we also have to look at the problem of the detention of asylum seekers and of course we will have to do so in the context of a revision of these texts, not to move away from the dublin system but to improve this european response to asylum seekers. we must remain faithful to the tradition of democratic welcome, the humanist welcome of europe, and that is why this debate, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, has been extremely useful to us. it will be a great help to our thinking and i shall of course be returning to parliament to present the texts we are now preparing in the light of the excellent comments which have been made in this debate. i therefore thank parliament very much, i thank you, mr president, and i hope that by the end of the year i will be able to come back to you with draft texts that will make it possible to improve the situation with regard to the right of asylum in europe.
i want to apologise to the commissioner again for interrupting the debate, but the priorities were set and we had to interrupt the debate in this unusual way.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 september 2008.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the common framework for european contract law, by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-0072/2008 - b6-0456/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, all the honourable members’ remarks have been very well presented and very wise. i would like to stress that the decision to translate only parts of the academic text is a political one. that is because the areas which are not useful for the purposes of the cfr will not be translated. i am sorry to repeat myself, but it is very important to stress that the cfr will be a toolbox by nature, and parliament will be fully involved in the decision on which parts of the text are to be translated. i would also like to inform you of the meetings tabled by the french presidency, which has scheduled two meetings of the civil law committee for 5 september and 3 november, in order to discuss selection of the chapters of the draft academic cfr for the future commission cfr. as you can see, nothing is set in stone. both parliament and the commission can fully participate and do the job together. the outcome of these discussions should be adopted as jha council conclusions in december 2008. that gives us sufficient certainty that the process is truly inclusive of all the interested parties. with reference to mrs van den burg’s remark, i would like to assure you that the consultation process will be broad and inclusive. i have received feedback from the academics, who have announced that they will translate their draft, which means that there will definitely be french, german and english versions. this guarantees, besides the efforts of the commission, that the project will certainly be available in those three languages. the commission has a clear interest in working together with parliament, which has been so supportive of this project, and with the council, to ensure proper scope, with translated versions of the already-completed academic part of the project.
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 september 2008.
the next item is the report by mr nickolay mladenova, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on certain aspects of motor insurance (2007/2258 (ini)) (a6-0249/2008).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 september 2008.
the next item is the report by sharon bowles, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against tax fraud (2008/2033 ((ini)) (a6-0312/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, it is estimated that tax losses due to vat and excise fraud amount to over 2% of the european union's gdp, amounting to eur 200-250 billion. these are huge sums, therefore, which reduce the revenues of national budgets, but also affect the structure of the revenues of the budget of the european union, increasing the share of own revenues based on gross national income. secondly, despite this diagnosis, the solutions proposed in the report for intra-community transactions, such as the reverse charge mechanism, whereby the tax is paid by the recipient rather than the supplier, the attempt to harmonise vat rates, which in effect means abolishing reduced rates, and finally the establishment of a clearing house to settle the tax between member states, are solutions which may do more harm than good. thirdly, it seems that, in order to reduce tax fraud, closer cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states is needed, consisting primarily in a more rapid exchange of information and perhaps even automatic access to certain vat and excise taxpayers' data.
mr. chairman, please! tax fraud has been a global problem for some time. the estimated losses correspond to 2-2.5% of gdp, or eur 200-250 billion at the european level. there is therefore a clear need for coordination at community level and for closer cooperation between member states. articles 10 and 280 of the treaty establishing the european community require the member states to take appropriate measures to fulfil their obligations under the treaty and to coordinate their action in order to protect the community's financial interests. however, it should be borne in mind that while the free movement of goods and services within the community market makes it difficult for individual member states to combat this type of fraud, the measures taken must not impede economic activity and impose unnecessary burdens on taxpayers.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i want to thank the members of the house for the comments and views they expressed during the debate. as i said in my opening remarks, the commission very much appreciates the contribution made by the european parliament to the debate on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud. the commission has assumed its responsibility and will take further initiatives to strengthen the legal framework and administrative cooperation between member states. member states certainly have to do the same. some of you have referred to the review of the savings taxation directive, and i can assure you that the ongoing review is a very thorough one, where we are examining in detail whether the current scope is effective, and the pros and cons of extending it. it is a complex matter where many factors have to be taken into account: efficiency from a tax compliance point of view; the administrative burden for market operators, and also for tax administration; the need for a level playing field both inside the eu and in relation to the outside world – to name just a few. as i mentioned earlier, we will soon present the report. it will be followed by a proposal for amendments to the savings taxation directive, and we will do our utmost to strike a proper balance. it is clear that there exists no single and global solution for eliminating tax fraud. each individual measure should bring an added value, but it is only their implementation as a whole which provides the tax authorities with an enhanced framework for combating tax evasion and tax fraud.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two months ago the commission adopted a renewed social agenda. it is designed to help the union address the social challenges facing europe in the 21st century. it contains an ambitious and coherent set of social policy measures to enable europeans to seize the opportunities that lie ahead. as mentioned above, the renewed social agenda was discussed by the ministers for labour and social affairs at the informal meeting of the council in its social policy composition held in chantilly at the beginning of july. i was pleased to hear of the very positive reception of the renewed social agenda by the member states and look forward to the conclusions that the council should adopt later this year. i have already had the opportunity to present this package to the conference of presidents and the employment committee. so it's a good time for a deep debate here in parliament. i am convinced that today's exchange of views will help us to move closer to a consensus on the kind of social europe we want to build for european citizens. let me remind you of the developments so far. this comprehensive package is the result of two years of joint effort. the commission cooperated with all stakeholders social partners, civil society, member states and regional and local authorities. the package forms a coherent whole, emphasising links with other areas such as education, health, the environment, the information society and the economy, and making clear that economic and social objectives are two sides of the same coin and must work in close synergy for the benefit of people. it is an ambitious package that seeks to offer practical answers to people's concerns and improve their living conditions. it is also a very comprehensive package the largest ever adopted by the commission at one time 18 initiatives presented together with the communication. and more than 20 others covering a wide range of topics are under negotiation. today i will focus on two measures the draft anti-discrimination directive and the recast directive establishing a european works council. but first, let me say a few words about the basic principles of this package. the renewed social agenda is based on three main principles: opportunity, access and solidarity. we europeans value the value of individuals and want everyone to have an equal chance to develop their potential. it means removing the obstacles that people have to overcome and creating the conditions that allow everyone to seize the opportunities that are offered, while respecting europe's diversity and avoiding conflicts with one another. europeans' belief in equality is reflected in their shared sense of social solidarity. solidarity between generations, between regions, between those better off and those worse off, between richer and less wealthy member states. and also with our neighbours and friends in other continents, since solidarity is an integral part of the functioning of european society and of our relations with the rest of the world. ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that the extent of legal protection against discrimination currently varies across the eu depending on the grounds for discrimination. however, discrimination is not limited to one area. this is why we have proposed, as part of the package, a horizontal directive prohibiting discrimination on grounds of age, sexual orientation, religion and disability outside the field of employment. the horizontal directive will bring the greatest clarity and legal certainty to member states, economic operators and citizens. this proposal responds to repeated calls from parliament and fulfils the political commitment made by the commission when it took office. it is a flexible instrument, building on principles already adopted in the member states and enshrined in existing rules. i would like to emphasise that addressing all grounds of discrimination in the same way does not mean that uniform rules have to apply in all areas. for example, in insurance and banking, it will be possible to differentiate treatment on the basis of age or disability. however, these differences will have to be substantiated by convincing reasons and reliable statistical data. older people will continue to enjoy reduced fares on public transport and at cultural events. and it will continue to be possible to restrict access to certain goods for reasons of public health, for example when selling alcohol to minors. the directive covers all supplies of all goods and services and applies to both businesses and private persons, but only where the supply of goods and services is carried out for commercial purposes. the directive will also be proportionate in terms of the burden it imposes, in line with the concept of proportionate adaptation enshrined both in the existing anti-discrimination directives and in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, to which the member states and the european community are signatories. the proposed directive prohibits discrimination, but at the same time respects other fundamental rights and freedoms, including the protection of private and family life and acts carried out in that context, as well as freedom of religion and freedom of association. another issue i would like to highlight is discrimination against roma, which the commission has repeatedly condemned as incompatible with eu principles. the package includes a communication on our renewed commitment to equal opportunities and the fight against discrimination and a commission staff working document on community instruments and policies for roma inclusion. this is in response to a request from the european council in december 2007 for the commission to review existing policies and instruments and report to the council on progress made. according to the commission staff working document, the necessary legislative, financial and coordination instruments exist and are being used, but still not to the required extent. the renewed social agenda includes several initiatives aimed at enhancing the union's capacity to respond more effectively to change. we believe that the european social dialogue and the european works councils have a special role to play in this respect. the directive on the establishment of european works councils has been calling for an update for some time. there are currently 820 european works councils in the union, representing 15 million workers. however, recent cases show that they do not fulfil their role fully and that employees are often not well informed or consulted about the restructuring of enterprises. the initiative therefore aims to strengthen the role of social dialogue in enterprises at transnational level. it is a balanced proposal that should ensure that workers' representatives are adequately informed and consulted when making decisions on matters affecting them, while allowing businesses to adapt to globalisation. the commission would naturally prefer a solution negotiated in advance by the social partners. however, the fact that they were not able to be brought to the round table last june forced the commission to submit a proposal on its own initiative. i do, however, appreciate the joint letter from the social partners to the council and parliament in august. we appreciate the efforts both sides have made to reach agreement on this complex issue. and i am also pleased that they have decided to accept the commission's proposal as a basis from which to work further. i hope very much that when parliament goes to its first reading it will take account of the practical proposals of the social partners. i trust we'll come to a solution as soon as possible. the commission shall, within its powers, make every effort to facilitate access to it as far as possible. now a few words about the effects of globalization. restructuring of businesses is sometimes unavoidable, but its effects on employees and their families can be very painful. the european globalisation adjustment fund exists to help in such situations. so far, the fund has helped 7,250 employees find new jobs. we can be happy about that, but we must ensure that the fund's possibilities are available to all those who can benefit from its help. the report contained in the social agenda package states that only 4% of the €500 million available annually was used in 2007. it is therefore necessary to consider how to improve the performance of the fund. as regards the mobility of workers, i would point out that the 1996 posting of workers directive promotes the free movement of services, while at the same time offering protection against exploitation of workers and guaranteeing respect for their fundamental rights in the member states to which they are posted. recent judgments of the court of justice on this issue have raised a number of questions. the reactions to them are entirely legitimate and we must find answers to them together. i invite you to a forum on 9 october to discuss this complex issue with the political authorities, the social partners, representatives of the european institutions and experts in the fields of law and economics. the commission will of course continue to listen to all voices, but at this stage we do not see the need to amend the directive. in any event, we will ensure that there is no conflict between the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaty and the fundamental rights of citizens. this new social agenda, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reaffirms the european union's commitment to promoting a strong and genuine social dimension in europe, a social europe that meets the expectations of our fellow citizens. this is of course not possible without including the educational dimension, which is very important. in this context, i would like to mention the following three documents: (1) the council recommendation on the mobility of young volunteers in europe, (2) the communication 'improving competences for the 21st century: an agenda for european cooperation in schools', (3) the green paper: migration and mobility: a challenge for european education systems. it is our common desire to strengthen and deepen europe's social dimension. the 18 measures contained in the package represent the first steps in our efforts to do so. i know that you, whose job it is to represent the voice of the public, can be relied upon to give these proposals and policy documents deep and careful consideration. this is of vital importance to their future destiny.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about social europe. let us talk about social europe, and i am happy to speak about it today before the european parliament, the european parliament, a key player in the institutional game, a vital partner with which the french presidency wants to work as closely as possible. i have said it and i want to say it again before you: 2008 must be the year of the revival of social europe. i believe that all european actors are waiting for this revival. the luxembourg summit in june and the chantilly meeting in july were steps in this relaunch. we wanted the french presidency to tackle the question of the renewal of the european social agenda, which commissioner špidla has just mentioned, from the outset. this is a key issue which requires that we are able to define together a social ambition for europe and translate this ambition into concrete initiatives. the chantilly discussions, in which parliament took part, in the person of the president of the commission, mr andersson, enabled us to reaffirm a number of common values which unite us and which precisely define the ambition of europeans in the social field. these values are social dialogue, solidarity between generations, the fight against poverty and discrimination, equality between men and women, social protection, occupational mobility, the importance of services of general interest in ensuring social cohesion and the social responsibility of enterprises. these values are the originality of the european social model, whether seen from beijing, washington, cape town, new delhi or even brisbane. the chantilly discussions were an opportunity to reiterate that they all have their place in the european development strategy, in the lisbon strategy. in other words, what was reminded at chantilly was that this social model, these common values, are an asset for europeans in globalisation. why would you do that? because the knowledge and innovation economy can only be built if the emphasis is on the development of human capital and lifelong learning. because the whole economy loses when entire categories of the population remain permanently out of employment, do not participate in the production of wealth, remain deprived of access to the market for goods and services. because workers, too, are more productive when they have good working conditions and social protection that insures them against the uncertainties of life. economic progress does not imply the renunciation of social progress, quite the contrary. for me - and i'm not the only one - the two are inseparable. without social progress, the springs of economic progress will eventually run out. europe must therefore move forward on two legs: economic progress, yes; social progress, yes. this conviction, which we have collectively recalled, has not prevented us from making another observation: the european social model must adapt to take account of globalisation, climate change, demographic change and the growing diversity of european societies. we must therefore adapt our labour markets by introducing flexicurity, that is to say new security and new flexibility, at the same time, for both employees and employers. and besides, things are moving. the word was scary, the word was disturbing. today, flexicurity is the name of a european mission, which brings together all european actors, including the social partners. it is a word that has entered the community vocabulary, rather everyday, which proves that things change, that mentalities change. another challenge in advancing our social model is to ensure social cohesion by combating new forms of poverty, especially those affecting children. it is time to prepare our societies even more together for this demographic change, by strengthening solidarity between generations and thus ensuring access to quality social services of general interest. this adaptation work has been under way for several years. through the action of the commission, the council of ministers, the european parliament and the social partners, we are advancing concrete initiatives to respond to the concerns of european citizens. how can we ensure both the free movement of workers in europe and the maintenance of the rights of those who are mobile on the market? how can the management of restructuring be improved by involving workers at european level? how can access to employment and integration through employment be ensured and how can discrimination be better combated? this work will continue during the french presidency. especially as the upcoming election dates make the second half of 2008 - i say it very frankly - the last window of opportunity to obtain results during this legislature on a number of issues. we are both faced with our responsibilities to our fellow citizens in europe. the europeans are waiting for these results. the reaction to recent judgments of the court of justice of the european communities is evidence of this. the european parliament can help us on this matter, as it can on many others on which i should like to say a word. firstly, the revision of the directive on european works councils, which mr špidla has just mentioned. this is a very important project which will help to strengthen the social dialogue in europe. the current directive applies to more than 14 million workers, concentrated in 820 enterprises. the number of workers concerned is likely to increase further with the revision. in chantilly we were able to meet representatives of the european trade union confederation and representatives of business europe to get their views on the commission's proposal for a revision. they indicated that they accepted this proposal as a basis for work and that discussions could be initiated to overcome differences. they are now finalising a number of joint proposals, the content of which they will be able to indicate. if that is the case, if the social partners come forward with joint proposals for the revision of the directive, our work, the work of parliament, the work of the council, can be facilitated. so why not reach an agreement as soon as possible? what if it's possible, then, before the end of the year? secondly, i am referring, of course, to the proposal for a directive on combating discrimination outside the field of employment, which was also tabled by the commission on 2 july. the text was discussed at length in chantilly and the presidency opened negotiations on it in july. parliament will be consulted on this matter, but i would point out that the commission proposal, which covers four grounds of discrimination, has taken account of the resolution adopted by parliament on the report by mrs elizabeth lynne last spring. the third issue, which we have also discussed a great deal, is social services of general interest. all the member states are talking about it. they all say the same thing, although, i agree, not all of them say exactly the same thing. but with the adoption of the additional protocol to the lisbon treaty, with the evaluation of the altmark package, we have the opportunity to recall the contribution of these services to social cohesion in europe, as well as the need to guarantee their quality and the importance of securing their legal framework. we want to work on a road map with the commission in particular and with all those who want to contribute, so that we can set a number of intermediate objectives to continue to make progress on this very important matter. finally, of course, there are the guidelines on temporary work and working time. the european parliament has the ball on these two dossiers for the second reading. we must try to avoid a conciliation procedure. millions of temporary workers in europe are eagerly awaiting the entry into force of the temporary work directive and there is an urgent need for a number of member states to address the problem of guard time. i can only encourage parliament to give us an outline on this subject, taking account, once again, of the balances that exist and of which i am well aware, but on this point too we are expected, we are looked at. i am also not forgetting, in the area of mobility, the search for agreement on the implementing regulation on the coordination of social security schemes. on these various issues, the french presidency needs the support of the european parliament to achieve concrete results. these results - you know them, but i would like to repeat them - are what europeans expect, and they are asking us to put the european social ambition at the service of their daily lives, to bring europe more into their daily lives. we know that today we do not need less europe, but more europe. we now know that we do not need less social europe, but more social europe. we know, ladies and gentlemen, exactly what challenges we have to face.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the union for a europe of nations group welcomes the new social package for the european union. europe's social dimension is the feature that most distinguishes us from other world powers such as the united states or china. it was largely around social values that 20th-century western europe was built. the social model became a valuable model for the new member states in 2004 and 2007 after they joined the european union, as in many of them, after regaining political and economic independence in the late 1980s, capitalism tried to revive itself in its worst form, violating workers' rights and disrespecting human dignity. in the 21st century, we all face globalization, which can be an opportunity, but it can also be a threat to humanity. it is from brussels that a strong signal should come to the member states to preserve and enhance the social acquis that serves all the citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the council representative called for 'more social europe!' i say to the minister, more common sense! that's better the european union can of course offer a lot, but let us stress that social policy is a matter for the sovereign decision of the individual member states. so, in short, less rhetoric and more concrete! the european union is proposing 19 interesting initiatives, of which only three are legislative proposals. perhaps the most important of these, the cross-border health service, will not be discussed today. i regret it very much and it is a pity that we have to wait for the french minister of health to appear at our meeting to debate this. finally, it is worth noting that the eu member states spend as much as 27% of gdp on social policy, and the us 15%. the question is whether the funds are being spent well.
mr. chairman, please! economic growth should be used to improve the material conditions of societies. but if we put comfort and social security first, we can forget that the social model of the economy is actually bureaucratization. if we forget that the most secure basis for social policy is economic growth, we can get lost in beautifully sounding slogans that have no relation to reality and can, like the provisions on non-discrimination, violate the principles of subsidiarity and common sense. how do we break out of this vicious cycle? the renewed social agenda provides only a partial answer to this challenge. there's too much talk about rights and privileges, and not enough about how these cannot be met without well-organized effort and accountability for economic impact at every level. from each according to his ability, to each according to his need. it's a utopia that must produce a deficit of goods and services of adequate quality.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my satisfaction that the renewed social agenda includes in the package of further measures a directive on improving the functioning of the european works councils. we have recently discussed the problems of the lack of precision in the provisions of the directive, which was intended to ensure workers' right to information and consultation. the directive on temporary work and the fight against poverty for full-time workers is also of great importance. i welcome the emphasis on the situation of young people, their access to education and health, and the prevention of their exclusion. the professional mobility of future workers is a life-changing opportunity for them, but also an opportunity for the economy. emphasising the protection of patients' rights is an important issue in the protection of public health. however, an important addition will be the green paper on healthcare workers, which we are awaiting.
mr. chairman, please! the social europe project is a great goal, and much has been done to achieve it. however, existing inequalities and new global challenges risk creating permanent social divisions in our societies at different levels: between children from rich families and those from poor families, between those with a high level of education and those with a low level, between women and men, immigrants and generations of europeans, people of different sexual orientations, different ages and health conditions. i could go on and on. combating inequalities in and outside the workplace is our fundamental task. the european union and its member states must respond to real needs, create real opportunities and create new hopes in the interests of all europeans. the commission's new package of initiatives on the european social model is a much-awaited and incomplete complement to the efforts being made at national level to improve the living standards of citizens, strengthen their rights and combat discrimination. i hope that with the new directive on equal treatment, which we as a socialist group have long been pushing for, we will be able to say that we are indeed fighting all forms of discrimination. the revision of the european works councils directive, which is now fulfilling its role as an instrument of social dialogue, is a positive element of the social package. we are still faced with an incomplete protection of workers in the dramatic restructuring processes forced by globalisation. social policy legislation is also of great importance for the political awakening of europe and europeans and the restoration of faith in a common project, especially in the face of the institutional crisis and the upcoming european parliament elections.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are dealing with very important issues today, which are employment, social affairs, health. all of this has a dimension that relates to the family, the basic social cell. this also applies to disabled people, pensioners and pensioners. this also applies to the very painful problem of unemployment. the right balance between pay and work and fair social security is not a favor. it is our duty to look after the future of europe. the social policy expenditure of the member states should be better targeted, as should the european social fund. today, our continent is aging, and it's aging very fast. but do we see the shortcomings of european family policy? how do we feel about family pay? where is our solidarity in poverty? that's right, solidarity is the word. i ask these questions as we celebrate the 28th anniversary of the birth of this movement and trade union that has brought about great change in europe.
in writing. – there is no doubt that the european social model needs to be reformed. especially, that the outdated welfare system still dominates in many of the larger member states. any talk of a european social model seems like a step in the wrong direction. no social agenda or social policy document published by the commission is likely to promote real economic growth or job creation. with the us economic crisis swiftly appearing on the shores of our continent, our governments should react to make sure that our citizens feel as little of the negative impact of a recession as possible. eu bureaucracy will not stop an economic crisis or a recession. member states should focus on liberalising their economies, lowering taxes and interest rates, and cutting red tape especially for small-businesses. centralised intervention in the economy has always failed. the top-down measures proposed by the commission might not only not help our citizens fend off unemployment but may actually hinder employment and economic growth.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the report by ms batzelli, which was put to the vote, on the 'youth in action' (2007-2013) 'culture (2007-2013) 'europe for citizens' (2007-2013) 'lifelong learning action programme' programmes, shows that the procedures used for adopting multiannual programmes in the fields of culture, youth education and active citizenship clearly hamper their preparation and implementation. the question is therefore: is this due to the bureaucratic style of the european commission or to a lack of understanding of this important area of civic engagement? culture and education cannot tolerate bureaucracy. this is why the committee on culture and education of the european parliament has repeatedly called for a rapid, effective and transparent procedure, which would nevertheless protect the right to control and information in the decision-making process. without quick decisions, there will be no desired effect. these facts fully justify the vote on the reports, especially since culture, in the broad sense, is a national asset, a guarantee of development and a force for survival.
in writing. - i fully support the initiative to amend the legal provisions on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments. every effort should be made to ensure that judicial cooperation between member states is as effective as possible. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that all citizens' rights, including the fundamental procedural right of defence, are fully respected. in my view, the proposed changes will not only greatly facilitate cooperation between courts, but above all serve to strengthen citizens' rights vis-à-vis the judiciary throughout the european union, in particular the rights of the defence and the right to seek a review of a case.
in writing. − i support the amendment of regulation no 562/2006 as regards the use of the vis under the schengen borders code. i consider that the on-going checks on the possession of the vis at the border crossing by third-country nationals holding a visa is unnecessary and too time-consuming. it makes it too long to wait to cross the border. reducing the level of controls will not affect my assessment of the level of security in the eu. therefore, i consider it appropriate to limit the checks carried out by qualified border guards to a random check of the vis.
in writing. − one of the consequences of the free movement of people within the european union is the increase in crossborder car journeys. this raises the need for road insurance legislation at eu level to effectively protect victims. the effectiveness of the system of claims representatives appointed by the insurance undertaking in the country of the permanent residence of the injured party is of the utmost importance for achieving that objective. the employer is obliged to inform the injured party of the means of claiming the foreign national's compensation. consumer confidence would be enhanced if, as part of the information package made available before the conclusion of the contract, the consumer were given comprehensive information on the principles of operation of the claims representatives system, its application and the benefits for the injured party. the rapporteur also highlights the fact that legal expenses insurance is compulsory in all member states. i support the rapporteur's view that maintaining the current voluntary system is the right solution. in this case, the increase in consumer confidence would be small in relation to the increase in the cost of the insurance itself or the burden of the delay in litigation that the consumer would have to bear in the case of a compulsory scheme. it is necessary to take action to raise awareness of the availability of legal expenses insurance, in particular in the new member states.
in writing. − between 2003 and 2005, some 17 000 third-country nationals were returned to another eu country to have their asylum applications processed there. 12% were applications from people who had already applied for asylum in the past. today, the chances of obtaining asylum vary widely across the eu, as seen most clearly in the case of iraqis. in germany, they have a 75 percent chance of being granted asylum, in greece, only 2 percent. eliminating 'circulating refugees', secondary migration and the simultaneous submission of asylum applications in different countries by introducing a system whereby one member state is responsible for processing asylum applications is a solution that benefits the eu.
in writing. - mr president, i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against tax fraud (2008/2033 (ini)). mrs sharon bowles rightly points out that tax fraud has serious consequences for national budgets. they lead to a breach of the principle of fair taxation and may distort competition. the disturbances caused by vat fraud affect the overall balance of the resource system. vat losses are estimated by various sources to be between eur 60 and eur 100 billion per year across the union, which increases the need to collect own resources from member states based on gross national income (gni). so i agree with mrs. bowles' initiative. i believe that the disruption caused by vat fraud should be prevented. to ensure the smooth functioning of the community, we must ensure that its resource system is fair and transparent.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? as usual, we enter the decisive phase of the budgetary procedure in the autumn, this time for 2009. it is our duty to record and take account of all the changes that have taken place since the initial budget proposals were presented. for me, as rapporteur for the budget of the european parliament and the other european institutions, the greatest problem and difficulty is the uncertainty about the fate of the lisbon treaty. the budget forecasts for 2009 were based on the most likely scenario, namely the entry into force of this treaty, which essentially extended the european parliament's co-decision powers. since there is a question mark at the moment, the normal budgetary response is to separate those expenditure which is directly linked to the lisbon treaty from the preliminary draft for next year's expenditure and this is the kind of request we have made to all the european institutions. we have a response from the european parliament. it is currently under consideration and is not yet an official document of the bureau of the european parliament, but it takes account of the requirement of separating the expenditure linked to the lisbon treaty, which may be taken into account in the future if the situation in this area changes. of course, the uncertainty surrounding the lisbon treaty, which affects the 2009 budget, does not override the other principles on which the european spending plan for 2009 should be built. this means that we are dealing with new rules for the remuneration of members, with new rules for the remuneration and employment of assistants, with the financing of the costs of the european campaign, with the dynamics of the prices of the various energy sources, which actually took place in 2008. but first of all, this is an election year and we must be careful to be rigorous and financially disciplined, because the growth of the european bureaucracy or the european administration, in other words, in an election year, is not the best message for the people we are asking to renew the mandate of a member of the european parliament. i would like to draw attention to one more point which does not concern me as rapporteur for the european parliament, but as a member of the community of democratic nations concerned with human rights and the sovereignty of the european peoples. we should also react to what happened in georgia in the budgetary sphere. i think that the european parliament is in a position to take a position on this issue at first reading, because it will be difficult to convince european taxpayers to continue unconditional aid to russia, since it is spending money on wars outside its borders.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. - madam president! - what are you doing? the eu telecoms regulatory framework was established in the 1990s, effectively freeing national markets from state monopolies. the effect was a significant reduction in the prices of connections offered by competing operators. in recent years, we have seen revolutionary technological changes - mobile telephony, the development of the internet and wireless networks have changed the face of telecommunications. eu law must reflect these changes, including in social terms. around 15% of europeans are disabled and by 2020 25% of the population will be older people. it is these people with special needs who should be given easier access to telecommunications services. it is necessary to provide free access to the common emergency number 112, including to internet telephony users, and to other electronic voice communications services throughout the union. in addition, customers must have the right to reliable information not only about the legal obligations arising from the use of a service, for example with regard to copyright, but also about the legally imposed restrictions. the key to better consumer protection will be, first and foremost, to define precisely the responsibilities of national regulatory authorities for the day-to-day enforcement of consumer rights.
madam president! i wanted to start by congratulating commissioner reding. one year after the roaming regulation, we have another package, which is very important, especially for consumers. and congratulations to the reporters, because there were four reports to be put together. and i think this is a very good match. i wanted to say that the consumer protection referred to in the regulations, in mr harbour's report, is very closely linked to the dividend chapter, because it is consumers who expect the appropriate chapter of this digital dividend. and it would be important - as was proposed during commissioner reding's speech - to optimise the use of spectrum at european level, to coordinate. tv and mobile phones are proposed as the main beneficiaries of the dividend, but i wanted to highlight one important thing: wireless internet. in many parts of europe, wireless internet is the only way for millions of citizens to access the internet. this is particularly true for rural or remote areas in europe. and i wanted to say that if the economic growth from this particular sector that we're talking about is particularly strong, then wireless broadband should be a significant part of the dividend that is generated. second important point studies for the optimisation and use of the dividend. the joint research centre could do that. and i wanted to ask you, commissioner, if this is really under consideration. there were three main issues: consumer choice, regulation must help investment and competitiveness, and strengthening the internal market. i think that this requires lobbying not only in parliament but also in the council, that is to say in each member state.
madam president! the european and global communities are increasingly dependent on electronic communications. and this connectivity is the lifeblood of the economy, it's used in education, in government, in health care, in media, in lifelong learning. in addition to the enormous benefits, this connectivity also carries a number of risks directly for citizens, institutions and businesses. the expectations of citizens who are the weakest participants in the system include: wide access to the system at the lowest possible prices for its services, for example the abolition of roaming between the countries of the european union and the exclusion of risks to users of communications, referred to, among others, in mr harbour's report. we must achieve these expectations on the basis of modern technology, competitiveness, with the financial support of the european union, especially in rural and mountain areas. in view of the overlap and interconnectedness of regulatory requirements and mechanisms and in the interests of transparency, it is appropriate to consider merging the provisions in question into a single provision. i thank all the rapporteurs for their contributions.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am speaking here on behalf of the union for a europe of nations, but i am also speaking in a secondary role, as chairman of the committee on petitions, and i am very pleased that today, here, all those who have so far spoken are members of the committee on petitions, and even the chairman of today's proceedings is also a member of the committee on petitions, so we know these matters very well. ladies and gentlemen! what has given rise to today's report by mr de rossy, to whom i congratulate on his excellent report, is the report of the ombudsman, with whom we, as the committee on petitions of the european parliament, are constantly working. we know that the ombudsman's work is going very well. we all deal with his work every day. because it is the committee on petitions of the european parliament that is authorised to deal with the ombudsman. ladies and gentlemen! the observation of all of us who are speaking here that the continuity of the proceedings is a nightmare for the european institutions, but that it is also a nightmare for the european citizens, is quite obvious. and here we must ask the european commission to do everything possible to fulfil all the obligations that are imposed on it more quickly. i would like to draw attention to this point in mr de rossa's report, which is crucial. first point: the european parliament supports the ombudsman's recommendation to the commission. he supports, as he always supports, because, as always, we believe that his demands and his demands are right.
mr. chairman, please! complaints by citizens are an important source of information on breaches of community law. in a case that has been ongoing for seven years concerning the incorrect application by the german government of a directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time (directive 2003/88 which replaced and repealed directive 93/104), the omission of an appropriate response by the european commission constitutes, in the opinion of the ombudsman, a case of maladministration. the commission is concerned about the unjustified time needed, often several years, to prepare the procedure for member states' failure to act, and about the numerous cases of non-compliance by member states with the court of justice's judgments. such practices undermine the credibility of the system of consistent application of community law, discredit the objectives of the european union and cause citizens to lose confidence in the union's institutions. the way in which citizens' complaints are handled must be in accordance with the principles of good administration. the complainant's request shall be dealt with in a timely manner and in the shortest possible time.
mr. chairman, please! complaints about the organisation of working time are urgent complaints. consider the situation where the rules on working time are violated with doctors, which may lead to a situation where a doctor performs a complex operation during the 23 hours of duty. there are a number of occupations where poor work organization can be life threatening. the timing of the complaint is therefore of the utmost importance.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i regard as positive the call for the report to facilitate the return of workers to work after a break from maternity and care leave and to redress the disparities between pay and education. but it's hard to accept that there's a direct causal relationship between the problems that many people face in life and the fact that they're women. treating social life as a struggle between the sexes, creating a new enemy on the model of the previous class struggle, gives the proponents the right to unlimited interference in every area of human life, including the functioning of the family. the problem in europe is not the struggle between men and women but the lack of respect for law and moral principles, especially unbridled greed and selfishness. as a woman, i would prefer that equality did not result in equality with men in everything, but rather in regulations that relieved and protected women, who, if not treated as an impersonal workforce, would make a creative contribution to many areas of the economy.
mr. chairman, please! when we look at the resolution on equality between women and men, it's hard not to support it. i would like to draw particular attention to the points relating to violence against women and to education from the earliest age, education on discrimination against women. we know that education is the best way to eradicate discrimination and violence against women. the knowledge of the citizens of the union about trafficking in women and the awareness of the existence of this horrible, brutal and unacceptable practice in the civilized world in our times is rather modest. i therefore believe that a substantial amount of money should be devoted to the information campaign. however, it should be noted that despite the many difficult issues we are discussing here, we have recently seen significant progress in gender equality, especially in rural areas.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, there have been many issues raised in this debate, and i would like to draw your attention to the issue of maternity and parental leave. europe is facing a demographic problem, which is not only caused by the economic problems that are eating away at our continent, but also by the lack of support for young mothers. it is vital that women who have given birth receive assistance which ensures that they and their child are adequately protected and are not excluded from future employment or even social life. it should provide her with the protection she needs to return to her workplace in time to care for her family. we should be putting a lot of pressure on the whole continent to take these regulations seriously.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw attention to the fact that advertisements appear, both on television and in public, and on billboards, whose content or form demeans the persons appearing in the marketing materials. it's mostly women, but not exclusively. the denial of dignity, the objectification of people, the portrayal of people as having low intellectual capacity or as being able to be interested only in sex, all lead to the creation of a feeling of inferiority in the unprepared recipient. it reduces his activity in carrying out his life plans, limiting their intentions. this is especially true of young people, which means that the consequences of such actions can be more severe. it's one of the many effects of consumerism. for many, profit, even if achieved by dishonest means, is more important than treating the human person as a subject, as a special value to be protected. therefore, legal restrictions on such activities are important.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. despite the many positive aspects of the report - noting the negative impact of media, marketing and advertising which present people in a caricatured and objective manner, discriminating and degrading their dignity - i would like to protest against some of the theories about the characteristics of manipulation, with the creation of a modern egalitarian society without moral models. while it is true that various hormonal and psychological therapies can be used to experiment on humans, this is at the cost of serious injuries and should be prohibited, at least to the extent that animal experiments are limited. both masculinity and femininity, as the twofold form of the human somatic constitution, are personality, also constituting the personality-creating element. it's impossible to change roles, because it's in the nature of man. in addition to recognizing the impact of advertising, it would be more appropriate to postulate an ethical-legal control, after first adopting a universal value system, preferably based on divine law.
the resolution overemphasises the issue of gender inequality and gender stereotypes. it's about talking about the negative stereotypes. while gender inequality is an important element of bad advertising, there are others. first, a lot of psychological experiments show that children, especially toddlers, but also older children, learn aggression, negative attitudes and behaviors from television and other media. and what's important, and i'm going to quote mrs. reding, is that as a psychologist, i can say that research shows that people believe that television and advertising in particular don't affect them to the degree that they do. marketing and advertising in the media maneuver between information, promotion and manipulation, the problem is to distinguish between them. if free advertising doesn't meet moral, social and psychological standards, it's wrong. and that's probably the most important aspect.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mrs svensson's report on the impact of marketing and advertising on equality between women and men is one of those documents which attempts to interfere with the non-essential issues of the current problems which the eu has to solve. in some records, the report is even frivolous. the rapporteur considers gender stereotypes to be a more important problem than the brutalization of content in the media, especially with regard to children. the claim that advertising incites gender hatred in the presence of advertising codes in the media is an over-interpretation of the facts. the report fails to address the growing problem of discrimination on the basis of colour among muslim eu citizens. i'm afraid the muslim press is not being monitored for gender equality. this is a very important problem for eu countries to solve. the improvement of the relationship between men and women in traditional and historical european society does not require intervention at present. individual cases of such distortions can be addressed by existing legal measures.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. our civilization lives off the exploitation of animals, and it's likely to continue to do so for a long time. we kill animals for many things, but we also set certain standards. at least we europeans reject cruelty, reduce animal suffering, and promote animal welfare. we have a law that says an animal is not a thing. cloning animals is a controversial scientific achievement. cloning animals for commercial purposes is an ethical abuse. it's not animal husbandry, it's the production of animals. not even on the production tape anymore, but on the xerox machine. we should reject it for ethical reasons. in the name of respect for animals, but also in the name of our humanity. from the objectification of animals, just one step to the objectification of humans. it's only halfway from cloning animals to cloning humans. on behalf of the union for a europe of nations, i support the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! if the protection of biodiversity is a priority for the european commission, then there should be no question of cloning. i'd like to hear what the arguments are for cloning animals for food. should we be guided only by economic considerations? what about ethical, social, health issues? before we decide to allow such food to be sold on the eu market, we must have the consent of our citizens to do so. i'm not sure i'd swallow a pork chop from a cloned pig or milk from a cloned cow. instead of genetically modified food and food from cloned animals, we should think more and take action to return to natural, organic, healthy food, without chemicals. let's keep cloning in the research field. i think that the way from the laboratory to the table or the fork of the european consumer is still a long way off, because there are still too many question marks. because there are still many unanswered questions, i believe that haste in this matter is not advisable. moreover, the commission should not act against the will of our citizens. even if food products from cloned animals are allowed on the eu market, i am convinced that if they are properly labelled and people make informed purchasing decisions, there will not be many people in the eu who are willing to buy them. by introducing products from cloned sheep, poultry, cattle or sheep, we are destroying the image of the essence of the european agricultural model, in which we place such high value on environmental protection and animal welfare.
mr. chairman, please! i also fully support mr parish's proposal to ban the use of cloned animals for food production. however, i have been watching for some time now as the commission pushes to impose on member states legislation which is to lead to the mass marketing of genetically modified food and, in the future, perhaps meat from cloned animals. in many countries, including poland, local governments have decided that entire regions, or even countries, should be gmo-free. the commission does not take any of these resolutions seriously and, lobbied by industrial groups, enforces the marketing of modified food. the eu countries must give the public a clear answer: are they for healthy, natural food or for modified and cloned food? we must not be hypocritical in this regard! i would also like to ask the commissioner how he intends to protect the public against the unwitting purchase of food that could be cloned in the future. it is not, and it will not be, specifically labelled, because exporters will want to smuggle it into the european society.
madam president! we are talking about a very important regulation today, which was initiated by a debate and then by a decision of the united nations. the debate, which culminated in the adoption by the economic and social council of a globally harmonised system for the classification and labelling of chemicals, was very much alive and well attended by all the member states, not only the united nations but above all the european union and the commission. so the system they've developed is our system. it is therefore good that we are today adapting our regulations on the use of chemicals to this system, while at the same time we are concerned and want to ensure that our citizens - citizens of the european union - are protected and that our environment is also protected from the effects of the use of dangerous substances. the aim of this harmonization, classification and labelling of dangerous substances is to improve the level of protection of health and the environment. the chemistry of the world is the same for humans. when you buy a product, you don't need to know what's in it. but he should know that he's buying a safe product. he should have confidence in the manufacturer and in the product he purchases. here's our role of labeling, which are so different so far. a product labelled dangerous in one country is toxic in another, harmful in another. this is unthinkable for the economy and the trade in chemicals. i therefore welcome our reports and discussions today. i think we're doing something very important. i would also like to draw attention to the last point, namely the implications of the need to inform about labelling. it's information that needs to be known by all those who manage waste. chemical waste, which is and will be of great importance to our environment, must also be included in this part, which closes the whole cycle of product and chemical management and then of hazardous waste disposal. let's give the european citizens a good product, let's give them a sense of chemical safety.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the introduction of hydrogen vehicles will have environmental and health impacts, a greenhouse effect and political and economic significance in the face of the shortage of traditional hydrocarbon fuels. the main step towards their introduction is the establishment of a directive on the type-approval of hydrogen-powered vehicles. i have two comments on the draft amending directive. first, the design omits the need to check the instructions for use when approving. hydrogen fuel with a very high energy value is a particularly dangerous product and will be encountered for the first time by vehicle users. secondly, the draft establishes a review date after the year of its establishment in order to take into account the lessons of its operation and established international standards in this field. the uen will support the establishment of a directive. thank you, mrs. weisgerber, for your detailed report.
madam president! the future of hydrogen-powered cars is an exciting prospect. although it will be a long time before this technology is widely used, it is vital that the rules on their type approval are harmonised now. the regulation under consideration today is primarily intended to introduce eu approval criteria for hydrogen-powered vehicles in order to ensure the proper functioning of the market. the different approval criteria in the various member states are currently disrupting the functioning of this market, causing unnecessary increases in production costs, endangering safety and, we must not forget, constituting a significant barrier to the development of hydrogen technology in the union. this last point cannot be ignored, especially since hydrogen, along with biofuels and electricity, is the hope of replacing oil in the transport sector in the future. but perhaps the most important thing is that the combustion of hydrogen does not produce carbon dioxide, which is still harmful to the environment, but water, which will obviously reduce air pollution and co2 emissions, which is what we are striving for, including in the european parliament. of course, the achievement of all these objectives will depend on the spread of these technologies, which - as the rapporteur rightly points out, and i congratulate her on her very good report - depends, among other things, on the existence of a network of hydrogen fuel stations. such stations should be set up simultaneously in all member states so that every european consumer has access to them. i also hope that car manufacturers will respond to the growing consumer demand for hydrogen-powered vehicles, so that the common market in this area can function properly.
madam president! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the commission on their initiative in seeking new sources of vehicle propulsion and energy. there are three important goals: our gradual independence from oil. secondly, the co2 emission target. finally, the third objective, which is important, is to stabilise and reduce the cost of using vehicles for users. i think we have three areas specifically covered by this document, namely the marking of hydrogen-powered vehicles, the two requirements for filling stations (their location, introduction). and finally, the third area that is important to me is the safety of hydrogen vehicles. this regulation creates a legal framework that says how we are going to use this energy, two of them give infrastructure requirements, so basically these are the basic conditions for the development of a new technology.
madam president! because i wanted to fit in the time limit of one minute, i missed one important piece of information that i would like to highlight as a benefit of the solution. namely, we propose a solution well ahead of time, creating the conditions for modernity. it can also be an incentive to look for other technologies, and i would like to express my appreciation to commissioner verheugen and to the commission for this.
mr. chairman, please! this resolution on georgia is important and i voted for it, although i believe that the european union, which has been faced with an important test as a result of the georgian accidents, has failed that test. and it failed, in my opinion, mainly because very important german interests, and especially the german left, intersect here with chancellor schroeder. mr schulz has made that very clear here today. the european union must understand that the baltic pipeline can be a cause for effective blackmailing of lithuania, latvia, estonia, poland, and also belarus. this pipeline must be dismantled and the european union, contrary to its declarations, must finally adopt a position on a single energy policy, a common energy policy, which in no way includes the baltic pipeline, even though this is contrary to certain interests of germany. germany must accept that either it is a unified european union and its declarations are true, or it is acting hypocritically, putting its own interests above the interests of the union.
mr. chairman, please! although i am a supporter of equal rights, i voted against the resolution on equality between women and men. the resolution included crypto-abortion provisions, thus violating the principle of subsidiarity in this area. the fact that amendment no 2 to delete these entries was rejected in the vote meant that the entire resolution had to be rejected. it is regrettable that the european parliament is so recklessly violating the fundamental principles of the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - the report legalizes the production of hydrogen-powered vehicles. it is one of the few documents that consciously addresses the issue of alternative fuel for cars. it's glorious because it's a completely new technology that's completely environmentally friendly, because the flue gas is water. i have no doubt that the documentary is inspired by the car manufacturer driven by hans pöttering, but i consciously voted for it.
in writing. − hydrogen is widely regarded as the cleanest and most environmentally friendly fuel, as all water is produced when it is burned in air or oxygen. despite the significant problems associated with hydrogen refuelling and storage, the continuous work of many research centres around the world shows that hydrogen is the fuel of the future. hydrogen as a fuel will provide us with an environmentally safe renewable energy source. the introduction of union type-approval criteria for hydrogen-powered vehicles is necessary for the proper functioning of the single market and to ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in georgia. not because it's the perfect resolution. i have no doubt that our resolution could be better. i was hesitant to support the resolution. i was relieved by mr martin schulz, who was speaking just before the vote. he regretted that the resolution did not criticize the president of georgia. this startling statement convinced me that the resolution could have been much worse, it could have been corrupted by the pro-russian lobby in the european parliament. mr schulz also questioned the unity of parliament in the caucasus crisis. it is now clear that it would be better if the european parliament met in an extraordinary session on georgia earlier. i wish we had presented our position before the council meeting. it is a pity that we did not present our recipe, our opinion before the leaders of the member states were assembled.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is no coincidence that the term 'sanctions' is not defined in international law. it's a pressure instrument that's difficult to pin down. the more ambitious proposals made by the rapporteur to harmonise the rules for their application are therefore all the more difficult to achieve. they can also be counterproductive. sanctions are an indispensable instrument of the european union's external policy. given the union's wide-ranging competences in trade and border control, they are of great importance for the achievement of both security and human rights objectives. that is why sanctions are part of our foreign policy instruments, and why we will not avoid using them in a rather loose and sometimes inconsistent way. instead of imposing sanctions on the basis of rigid rules, we should, for the sake of our effectiveness in influencing world politics, leave their application to prudent political judgment. with this general reservation, our group will support the report.
mr. chairman, please! sanctions are an important foreign policy instrument. their effectiveness is evaluated differently. they may have contributed to the fall of apartheid in south africa. i am a beneficiary of the amnesty, which was enforced by the sanctions, and i was released from prison in 1983, but not for long. but they often fail, as they do in zimbabwe and cuba. economic sanctions are often used to justify hardships that are primarily the result of incompetent dictatorial governments. but there is one type of sanction that does not create such propaganda opportunities. this is a european union entry ban. however, it cannot be limited to the highest authorities, as is the case in belarus. it must also include those in the middle of the repressive apparatus and the human rights violations. then the common people will know that the measures taken do not strike them, but the apparatus of dictatorial power.
mr. chairman, please! the application of sanctions should become a real and effective element of the european union's foreign policy in the field of human rights. the conclusions of the hélène flautre report are moving in the right direction. the current policy of applying double standards in the application of sanctions requires changes. it is desirable to extend the application of the human rights and democracy clause to all trade agreements concluded by the union with third countries. it is important to apply political and economic sanctions simultaneously, with the former targeting mainly sectors that are strategic sources of government revenue. the sanctions should be applied in parallel with the support to civil society and non-governmental organisations in the country concerned. but i have the impression that passing a resolution is not enough. the examples of individual member states pursuing their own interests and breaking the union's solidarity are the best proof of this. without real political will on the part of the member states of the european union, the resolutions will remain on paper. the eu's position on russia's actions in georgia will be a test of whether the eu's foreign policy on human rights is up to the challenge. it is no longer enough to preach the right principles and requirements. it is time to put them into practice, and that is what this report is about, and i would like to thank mrs hélène flautre for it.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's disadvantage is that it has a double standard when it comes to human rights violations. for a long time, and recently also in the context of russia's aggression against georgia, we have been dealing with a situation in which a concessionary tariff is applied to countries, true, dictatorial or semi-dictatorial, but rich or large, and countries that also violate human rights, but are less important from the point of view of european or american business. we should not abandon the instrument of sanctions against countries which violate human and civil rights, which disregard european standards in this field. but this instrument should not be devalued, we should use it flexibly. in this context, the threat of possible sanctions against russia for the war in the caucasus should not be dismissed. i'm very happy to conclude that we want to make it a human rights violation to knowingly harm the environment. colleagues from finland, sweden, the baltic countries are talking about the potentially dramatic environmental impact of the nord stream pipeline project on the bottom of the baltic sea.
mr. chairman, please! there is a latin rule in international law that says, "par in parem non habet imperium". it means that a state cannot judge another state, it cannot impose sanctions on another state, but that's the past, that's history. the international community, with its common sense and rationality, has made a huge turn. the primitive sanctions that states used against each other in retaliation, according to the biblical principle from the old testament, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, have been replaced by a magnificent mechanism of collective and organized sanctions, where procedures decide who, when and how to use this mechanism. i am glad that the european union is working out an ever more perfect mechanism for applying sanctions, also by differentiating them according to the situation, the degree of fault committed. i want to emphasize two things. i am in favour of wise and intelligent sanctions, applied sensibly, but against so-called preventive sanctions. i think that the preventive sanctions are an abuse. secondly, i call for us to pay more attention to the community, to our citizens, informing them that sanctions are not a primitive punishment, but a natural and healthy response to a serious violation of the law and act in defense of democracy.
in writing. – the criminal justice system serves to punish, deter and to rehabilitate the offender. in the same way sanctions broadly serve the same purposes. our criminal justice systems may punish, but how successful they are in deterring and rehabilitating is open to question. likewise, sanctions often have limited impact on deterring and rehabilitating nations which break international law and violate human rights. research based on the effectiveness of over 100 instances of economic sanctions since world war i has shown that they are most likely to be effective if: the change we demand is modest; large powerful nations or groups of nations act against a weaker nation; the target nation is truly dependent on trade with those imposing the sanctions; sanctions are imposed quickly and damage to the imposer of sanctions is limited. when the eu does impose sanctions they should be precise and well targeted. measures to consider include: freezing of financial assets, ban on transactions, investment restrictions; trade restrictions on particular goods; travel restrictions; diplomatic constraints and cultural and sports restrictions. it is vital that the eu reviews its sanctions policy, not only with the aim of achieving the desired changes in offending nations, but also to ensure its own credibility.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, like the european parliament, the council attaches great importance to the achievement of all the millennium development goals worldwide by 2015, in particular the one aimed at reducing the maternal mortality rate by three quarters between 1990 and 2015. the european union recalls in this regard that sustainable progress in this area requires respect for and promotion of the rights of women and girls by guaranteeing them access to health services, in particular sexual health services, and by protecting them against the aids virus. the three eu institutions have made clear their collective commitment to improving maternal health in developing countries, notably by signing the european consensus on development on 20 december 2005, which places maternal health among the priority objectives of the union's development policy. we have the financial instruments to achieve this, particularly in the framework of the partnership between the european union and africa on the millennium development goals. as you know, there are still considerable challenges to be met in the field of health. they were mentioned in the annual report of the united nations. 500,000 women still die each year from complications of pregnancy or childbirth that cannot be treated. these deaths cannot be prevented at this point if we do not make progress. the probability of a woman dying from these maternal causes is 1/16 in sub-saharan africa compared to 1/3800 in developed countries. so, in view of the scale of these challenges, in view of this totally unacceptable situation, the council has decided to accelerate and strengthen its action. in june it adopted an action plan. the agenda provides for the eu to urgently support efforts to achieve the 2005 target, including universal access to reproductive health, and the 2010 intermediate targets, which are - as you know - to save 4 million additional lives of children each year, including 2 million in africa, and to ensure that 35 million additional births are attended by qualified health workers each year, including 13 million in africa. if we are to reduce maternal mortality rates by three-quarters by 2015, that means that 21 million more births will need to be attended by trained health personnel every year by 2010. the union will support the achievement of its target of 50 million more women in africa having access to modern contraceptive methods by 2010 and, more generally, to family planning. the agenda implemented by the council also provides for the union to contribute to reducing the financing gap to achieve these objectives by 2010. i should like to point out that the world health organization estimates the current funding gap at over 13 billion euros. if the commissioner tells us that the european commission believes that to meet and close these financing gaps we need an increase in eu aid of €8 billion by 2010, of which €6 billion should be allocated to africa, it is essential that both partner and donor countries are involved in meeting the challenges ahead. so in this context, the presidency is convinced that strengthening health systems in developing countries remains a very important priority of the millennium development goals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health insurance system is not disrupted. the development ministers will meet at the informal meeting in bordeaux on 29 and 30 september, with a view to the conclusions of the november council and the forthcoming presidencies on universal access to care; finally, the council will examine the commission's report on the european union action plan against the shortage of health workers in developing countries. so, mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that the council will remain fully engaged and will do everything possible to ensure that the european union continues to play a leading role in improving maternal health in developing countries, particularly in africa.
member of the commission. − mr president, the right to health is probably the basic right with the most inequalities in the world today. those in greatest need, at greatest risk of ill health and premature death, have the worst access to health care – often zero access. this poses enormous challenges to the european union and to the world community as a whole. the european union is very committed to the implementation of the millennium development goals (mdgs), including mdg 5 on maternal health, which is the subject we are discussing today. we are aware of the fact that scaling up sexual and reproductive health and health funding in general requires a far more coherent and multi-sectoral approach, also involving other mdgs. health results cannot be achieved without adequate investment in the systems that deliver better health. health policy needs to be embedded in broader social and economic development planning. countries need long-term predictable aid from external donors. donors need to see a clear link between financing and results, and mechanisms to hold all partners accountable for their performance against international agreements are badly needed. poor people – women, men and children – living in developing countries encounter a wide range of interrelated sexual and reproductive health problems. these include hiv/aids, sexually transmitted diseases, unplanned or unwanted pregnancy, complications encountered in pregnancy and childbirth, genital mutilation or cutting, infertility, sexual abuse, unsafe abortion and cancer of the cervix, among others. together, these conditions are responsible for much suffering and many premature deaths. exacerbated by poverty and the secondary position of women in society they are basically due to the lack of access to appropriate health services, lack of information and inadequate availability of skilled professionals and supplies of reproductive health commodities. therefore, improving maternal health and reducing maternal mortality have been key concerns of the european commission’s work in health and development. however, despite our efforts and the mdg targets, mdg 5 is possibly the goal which is most off-track globally – especially, as has already been said, in africa. this is very serious, all the more so because most maternal deaths occur at home, far removed from the health services, and often go unrecorded. so the actual maternal mortality figure might even be much higher than the half million a year that we are aware of according to the statistics. from a political point of view, there is another issue which causes concern. this is the increasing tendency not to prioritise sexual and reproductive health and rights policies in programmes because of sensitivities to abortion. by doing so, we are forgetting about the unequal position of women in many of our partner countries who have no say about the number of children they want or are forced to have sexual relations, sometimes even with a partner who is likely to be hiv-infected. let us not forget about the many victims of rape, the young girls and women who, on top of their injuries and trauma, often get rejected by their relatives and communities. under the 10th european development fund and the commission budget, we are therefore programming direct support to health in 31 developing countries. many of these countries have very high maternal mortality rates and very weak health systems. in this regard, budget support linked to health outcomes becomes another important instrument to address maternal mortality. to make this aid more predictable, the commission is introducing in a number of partner countries a new financing modality called ‘mdg contracting’, under which budget support will be made over a longer term, linked with agreed outcomes which contribute towards the achievement of the mdgs. this will allow governments to support recurrent costs of health systems, such as the salaries of health workers. this is critical to increase access to basic healthcare, including safe deliveries and progress towards mdg 5. however, we know that what is being done in support of maternal health at the moment is not sufficient and that more efforts are needed to change the present situation. this is why on 24 june 2008 the council of the european union adopted the eu agenda for action on mdgs, whereby the commission and the member states commit themselves to increase their support to health by the additional eur 8 billion which has been mentioned, and eur 6 billion in africa, by 2010. regarding mdg 5, the agenda for action on mdgs mentioned two important targets by 2010: firstly, 21 million more births attended by skilled health workers and, secondly, 50 million more women to have access to modern contraceptives in africa. we the commission – but also the member states – will now have to make it happen together. we have made the commitment and we are determined to improve the situation of women in poor countries giving birth, which i think is the most natural thing in the world. i am glad that, as the commissioner for external relations today, in place of louis michel, i can say that, because, as a woman, i feel very much in solidarity. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group, i would like to thank the president of the commission, mrs commissioner, and the president of the council, mr commissioner, for their work. the fifth millennium development goal is a very important goal, because it is not just about the quality of life, but about life itself, its existence and survival. the importance of the fifth millennium development goal is enhanced by the fact that achieving it is not particularly costly. programs and projects around the world have already reduced maternal mortality significantly at very low cost. and yet, in some regions, the momentum towards the fifth objective is weak or very weak. moreover, in some regions, particularly in sub-saharan africa, there has been no improvement since 2000. this is a very worrying phenomenon, because it puts the achievement of the fifth millennium development goal at serious risk on a global scale. unfortunately, in some developed countries, there is still a tendency to ideologise the issue and focus on one and a very controversial issue, called reproductive rights. we've already talked about it today. after all, unsafe abortions are one of the leading causes of maternal death. regardless of how you look at it, it stands to reason that reducing abortion would help to reduce maternal mortality. so i think it would be easier to reduce the number of abortions than to increase the number of so-called safe abortions. it is therefore difficult to agree that reproductive health should be a priority for development policy. it is important, but the priority should still be to fight poverty (i agree with the commissioner), to improve the position of women and to fulfil the promises made by the developed countries. this choice of priorities is very important because the wrong choice of priorities can lead to actions that can be disadvantageous. for example, we normally include an example of sharing experience and best practice in a resolution, but if the objective is not right, sharing experience and best practice can be ineffective or even undesirable. it is also worth remembering that imposing our norms and standards on other countries and communities is morally ambiguous. in ethical matters, the countries that receive our aid should be able to decide for themselves what is good and acceptable. for example, we should not say that abortion is a good option. it's inconsistency and unauthorized interference. it's inconsequential because we want to increase the birth rate in europe, and we promote reducing it in other countries. unlawful interference, because no one has given us the authority to determine the ethical decisions of other countries. so i think we should focus on what is non-controversial, especially since there are so many things that are non-controversial and we have complete agreement on: education, women's empowerment, maternity protection, proper nutrition, access to skilled health care, midwifery. these are areas where we can focus together and then make it easier to achieve the fifth millennium development goal.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the perinatal mortality is still a very worrying phenomenon, an unfounded medical knowledge. in an age of demographic decline, improving the health of pregnant women is becoming an even greater problem. it is worth remembering how seriously a woman is mutilated by an abortion. there can be no dilemma: if you agree to kill your child, you have a chance of survival. a 75% reduction in the perinatal mortality rate by 2015 compared to 1990 requires an overall improvement in women's health, increased health protection and education for prevention. the situation is worst in southern and sub-saharan africa, as well as in asia. half a million women die every year in the united states for wanting to have children. in the case of hiv and malaria infected women, in addition to the risk to the mother's life, there is also a risk of infection to the children. it should be stressed that poverty is a significant negative factor here and that is where the funds should be allocated. this situation particularly highlights the value of human solidarity. making the health of women expectant mothers a priority and mobilizing international forces to improve health care for pregnant women is a major challenge.
mr president, just a little reflection on this issue that has political, psychological, physical and moral aspects and so is very complicated. when mrs kinnock says that this side does not like even the term ‘service’, i would object. there are so many ‘services’ but among them there is one which is very controversial: abortion. i think the side to my right wants to cover it with some very beautiful semantics, using terms like ‘reproductive health’. i think you know the position of most of that side of the house, but there are so many other ‘services’ that you want to approve, use and support as much as is financially possible, and this will, i hope, diminish the ratio of deaths at those different moments that we discussed today. so this accusation is not very proper, although we know there are some moral problems related to just one ‘service’.
member of the commission. − on the black sea synergy, the idea was to have the eastern partners – all of our eastern partners – plus turkey and russia and, since they were already in this black sea economic cooperation, we felt this was the right way. but you also know that we have been asked by the european council to have a specific eastern partnership as well, and we will be working on that – indeed, my services and i will, in late autumn, propose something more specific only with the eastern partners, without turkey and russia. but i wanted to say again that i was in kiev on 13/14 february, where the first ministerial meeting took place. you must understand that this was the launching of the conference. of course it always takes time for projects to be finalised and to make real progress. you will remember how long we have been working on the barcelona process and you know how slowly things develop, so i think there is still scope for the black sea cooperation on the one hand, but there will also be this narrower scope of the eastern partnership.
member of the commission. − i would agree that eu election observation missions (eoms) everywhere in the world represent money well spent. over the past eight years eu observers have been reporting on crucial elections, thereby contributing to reducing conflict over the electoral outcome or highlighting areas requiring urgent electoral and political reform. as such, these are achievements which have an impact in the longer run. the european union is now widely seen as one of the most credible international election observers. i know mr evans himself has just come back very recently from the sri lanka elections. i think he will also have his own ideas on what worked well, and maybe on what has to be done for the future. the commission will therefore continue to prioritise the eu eoms, and as long as i am there i will try to do that. having said that, however, election observations are not and cannot be actions standing on their own. election observation is not an objective in itself but should also contribute to addressing deficiencies in the electoral framework, and also to triggering institutional and democratic reform in the longer run. the reports of the eoms are a key entry point for addressing deficiencies in the electoral framework. they have a long-term perspective by definition. the recommendations of the eoms usually identify possibilities for electoral change, for instance in the regulatory framework or in the management of the elections. they are increasingly embedded in a broader electoral support strategy, thereby enhancing the long-term impact. with reference to other recent eoms, i can confirm that, for instance in rwanda, in cambodia or in yemen, we have been giving support to the respective electoral commissions. these projects resulted, then, directly from previous eu eoms, which had identified a number of deficiencies in the electoral framework. but, in the same context, over the past years the commission has also substantially increased the financial contributions for electoral assistance, thus building on the recommendations of the eu eoms. this is now eur 400 million since 2000, so this is quite a good amount. a lot of valuable work setting the stage for electoral reform in follow-up to an eu eom is also done by delegations of the european commission in the country, and of course by the chief observers when they return to the country to present their final report. finally, as electoral reform is often very political in nature, it does not always happen very easily, and requires different actors and continuous involvement. i believe that, in addition to the chief observer, parliament can play and very often does play a relevant role addressing electoral reform in the follow-up to the eom. i would therefore encourage the regular ep delegations to a country to get more involved in the matter as well, by then addressing deficiencies in the electoral framework in a context of broader institutional and democratic change. this has been the content of a first seminar between the commission and parliament and there will be another one later this year, i think it will be in december, between commission and parliament.
member of the commission. − firstly, may i just say that recommendations for the long term and for the next elections are precisely the area on which we should all work together more. this is because some countries have taken up those recommendations while others have not, and the recommendations should enter more into our country reports and into the evaluation by the delegations and by the european parliament delegations. in response to the second question, if there were a much bigger budget, then we would go to many more countries, but i have to make a selection. i try to make a selection according to the budget, which has to cover africa, asia, latin america and, as long as we are invited, the countries of the maghreb and arab countries, where i think we should go more often, because owing to our – in principle – objectivity, we have a very good standing.
member of the commission. − i believe the honourable member is referring to the delay in the monthly transfer of customs revenues which israel collects on behalf of the palestinian authority. the last delay dates back to the month of june, and it followed almost immediately the sending of a letter by palestinian prime minister fayyad in which he objected to the ongoing discussions on the further development of relations between the eu and israel. at the time, the delay in transferring tax and customs revenues was raised at the highest levels, and i myself also raised this question with the foreign minister. i asked israel to execute the payment which was due to the palestinians and, finally, i must say – and i can say – the transfer was made a week later than normally. since then, no further instances of delays in transferring tax funds have been reported to the commission.
member of the commission. − in response to the first comment, there have indeed been long delays in recent years regarding palestinian money – and i agree with you that it is palestinian money – but i have always tried when it was necessary – and very often the palestinians asked me to do so – to intervene personally in order to get the money unblocked. this could take a long time and there were periods when it was really very difficult, but i always tried. i agree with you that this also has to be done in the future. herr abgeordneter rack! ich kann ihnen ganz klar versichern, dass die art und weise, wie wir unser geld an die palästinenser liefern – früher durch den so genannten tim, den temporary international mechanism, und jetzt durch den finanzmechanismus pegase –, so gestaltet ist, dass wir volle kontrolle haben. ich glaube, das war auch das wesentliche. im übrigen haben sogar die israelis jetzt diesen single treasury account, dieses einzige konto des finanzministeriums benützt, um darauf israelische gelder zu überweisen. mit salam fajad als finanz- und premierminister haben wir hier auch eine person, die das vertrauen der internationalen gemeinschaft hat. aber wir haben vor allem selber unsere eigenen kontrollen vorgenommen, und ich achte, soweit ich persönlich kann, sehr genau darauf. meine delegation hat hier ein eigenes system und ein eigenes team aufgebaut, damit es zu keinen unregelmäßigkeiten kommt.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful to the european parliament for this report. as it reflects, services account for the largest share of gdp in developed countries. the liberalisation of trade in services is therefore of key importance for our economic growth, as it is for developing countries, where services are not sufficiently advanced. i largely share the views that are expressed is this report. they are in line with our global europe strategy. it is built on an ambitious multilateral agenda and on a carefully crafted set of bilateral agreements. we are fully committed to the development dimension of the multilateral trade round and, as the report affirms, we see a multilateral deal on services as positive, both for the interests of the eu as well as for those of poorer countries. i welcome the encouragement of the report for an ambitious level of commitments in the ongoing and upcoming negotiations for bilateral and regional agreements. we take careful note of the recommendations of the report for the different ongoing negotiations that generally touch upon the sectors that our services industry considers of importance. allow me to make a general reflection on the negotiation of services agreements which is applicable to both bilateral and multilateral deals. there is no easy fix for negotiations in services, no simple formula that can apply across all service sectors and all countries. these negotiations involve addressing the complex and often detailed set of regulatory frameworks of countries in areas as diverse as those reflected in the last section of your report – from financial services to health care or education. we ought to do that in a non-intrusive way that preserves the right of third countries to regulate the different services sectors domestically as they wish, while opening them to external supply if competition is favoured. there should be no discrimination. we acknowledge that some services sectors account for a larger share of gdp than others and that, to this extent, the liberalisation of their trade may have a larger impact on our overall welfare. however, in prioritising any given sectors, we also have to take into consideration, amongst other factors, the relative specialisation of our eu countries and regions in different sectors. finally, let me offer a reflection on the multilateral process. your report welcomes the announcement of a signalling conference on services as part of the dda ministerial negotiations. we actually pushed very hard for this event, which took place in july in geneva. it was a relative success. we did not hear all the signals that we would have liked, but we heard enough to say that wto members and several of our target countries understood the importance that we attach to a satisfactory market access outcome in the services sector. i have no crystal ball to see where the multilateral talks in the dda will go from where we left them in july. we are in the situation where one issue – the special safeguard mechanism in agriculture for developing countries – has provided the proximate cause of breakdown, even if there are other issues that also need to be resolved. so support for the outline modalities deal as a whole is very fragile and not just a question of the us and india resolving their differences in agriculture. i feel as if we have a priceless, wafer-thin vase of great craftsmanship in our hands, but which now has to be carried from here over a very slippery floor. one false move and the whole thing could crash into many pieces. so we need to be careful of the moves we make. we cannot stand still but, equally, it is difficult to move forward. we stand ready to re-engage at whatever level is useful to make sure that we do not lose what we had achieved and which remains on the table. but there has to be genuine political commitment by others to participate in a negotiating process. in this context, the progress made at the services signalling conference will not be lost. the signals made threw some light on the flexibilities that our key trading partners have in the services field, and this is precious information. the best contribution that we can all make in the current circumstances of the breakdown in negotiations in geneva is to be realistically positive and explain how big an opportunity we may miss if we fail altogether. your report, therefore, is timely, for it sends a clear and balanced message on the importance that the liberalisation of trade in one of the key areas of a dda deal – services – would have, both for us and for our partners. i look forward to continuing my cooperation and dialogue with parliament, both in this area and other areas of trade policy.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, behind the socialistic approach to non-liberalisation of this market is the fear that if the service is given into private hands the state will lose power over it, and something would be wrong. fifty years of communism has shown that this is not the case. competitive services in tourism, finance and transport – to make things available – and in education and training are a big challenge, and a hope for helping poor countries to develop. how do i see that help for development if we compare the market for goods – tangible things – and services? services are people doing activities. they give the chance to transfer knowledge. it is not about giving a fish but a fishing rod, as we used to say in this house. what is more, it gives the chance to release personal initiative, innovation and more involvement in various activities. also, the services market is more capable of adapting to cultural demands, it is more flexible and it can adapt more easily to the exigencies of local regulations, which would have to be observed in any country. through this it can diminish unemployment. on the social level it can achieve greater involvement of people from different backgrounds and social classes. we are talking about water, education and health, and why not? the 50 years of communism and recent changes in my country prove that liberalisation is a force for good rather than for bad, and i strongly support it.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to congratulate mr kamal on his excellent report. i'm going to the hospital. it should be stressed that market access and free trade in services are fundamental to economic growth and reducing unemployment. this is a solution that benefits our countries and regions. this benefit also extends to partners outside the union, especially the poorest countries. the negotiations under the ad-dauha programme should lead to a harmonised package of services, including financial services, for which the union is the most open and transparent. but this openness must go hand in hand with reciprocity and fairness. in this context, we should also look at the so-called tax havens. the regulations adopted should take account of the need to promote competition and thus lower prices and improve the quality of services, and on the other hand to combat corruption and market monopolisation. i would like to draw attention to the fact that trade in services is increasingly involving high technology, information technology, cultural goods and so on. services provided via the internet require special care. intellectual property rights must be guaranteed, personal data must be secured and fraud, pornography trafficking and other criminal activities must be prevented. an ageing population, people with disabilities, and the need for health and care services is increasing. so let's look at the significant share of immigrants in these areas. the current political situation should also draw our attention to energy and communications services. we've heard that services are a very important part of gdp around the world. the world trade in services is on the rise, accounting for a quarter of all services. so let us create a system of clear, fair rules that ensure equal treatment for all parties. it's hard, but who says we have to do easy tasks?
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, i would like to draw attention to two issues. first, although the services sector in the european union generated as much as 75% of gdp in 2007 and the union's services exports accounted for over 28% of total world exports, there are still many barriers to the free provision of services within the european union itself by service providers from the new member states. i would like to express the hope that the union will make significant progress on this matter in the near future. and secondly, we must firmly oppose the solutions suggested in the report, whereby the union, in the wto negotiations, should unilaterally reduce the levy and agricultural subsidies in order to receive, as it is claimed, the reward of additional profits in trade in services. this approach, which the union has already taken on several occasions, has led to the reduction of production and sometimes even the liquidation of many agricultural production sectors in the european union, which has significantly weakened the food security of the union countries and has also led to a marked increase in agricultural raw material prices in recent months.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we have tabled an amendment to this report together with mr. liberace. it aimed to have airlines withdraw their shares from the central air ticket reservation system within three years. this amendment was considered radical and did not obtain the necessary majority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. the transport committee finally adopted a variant which can be considered as very good for the time being. temporarily, on the way to, well, a full withdrawal of the shares. however, the council has changed its mind: the amendments notified strengthen the position of the three carriers, i.e. lufthansa, iberia and air france, even more than the version originally proposed by the european commission. and we hear that it's a success, that consumers will benefit from it. the second success is that the rapporteur has reportedly resisted the enormous pressure of the lobbyists. i can imagine, because we also, we, individual members. but these lobbyists, they're representatives of the companies that are fighting for equal opportunity. but they don't have them because they've won the interest of a few national companies. and those are not what we call lobbyists, especially when those interests are represented by the country that holds the presidency of the european union. then everything is fine and we're talking about excellent cooperation with the council. isn't that hypocritical? and isn't it just another hypocrisy to call this report a code of conduct? for whom does the revised code apply, when the new definition of the parent carrier practically eliminates that carrier?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to support mr. brian simpson's position with all my strength. it showed that the new definition of a home carrier is a very vague definition. the addition of 'have decisive influence' raises the question: does lufthansa, with its 22% stake in amadeus, have decisive influence? is lufthansa, air france and iberia, together 44%, already the decisive influence? it is worth considering: either to adopt amendment no 48 or to refer this draft back to the commission for reconsideration. otherwise, the idea of competition will suffer.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to commend honourable members for the high standard of this debate. i welcome most of the amendments proposed. they clarify several points in a useful way, in particular as regards the neutral display of travel options on the travel agent’s screen and the protection of personal data. i would like to thank parliament for having had the courage to raise the thorny issue of parent carriers. i would like to set out the commission’s position in this regard. we all know that this is an extremely sensitive issue which has given rise to very intensive lobbying. at this juncture, the commission supports the compromise reached between the presidency and the rapporteur, which was supported unanimously by the member states. the new definition, as proposed in amendment 13, removes any ambiguity or legal uncertainty. the commission would thus be able to carry out an analysis and determine whether a company controls the crs and whether a company which has rights and participates in the management of the crs influences the latter in a decisive manner. this concept relies on the commission’s long experience in the field of competition, which enables it to ascertain what a shareholder’s real power and influence are, for example by analysing the rights attaching to the shareholding and the agreements made between shareholders. in view of this, i believe that the text before us will enable the commission, when acting on a complaint it has received, or on its own initiative, to exercise its prerogatives fully, strengthening significantly its powers, and to determine in each individual case, and at any time, which companies are parent carriers and must shoulder the major obligations arising from that status.with regard to the identification of the travel agent in the statistical data provided by crs midt, i also support the compromise text which strikes a balance between the need to protect travel agents against improper use of the data and the usefulness of the data when it comes to airlines’ strategic planning. i believe that with this text we are establishing a regulatory framework which takes account of market developments and enables travellers to benefit from an injection of competition into the distribution of air and rail tickets, while keeping safeguards in place to prevent any abuse. on this basis, i really think that it is important to go ahead with an agreement in first reading during this legislature. the new legislation is expected by all actors and will reduce the administrative costs for the operators. in order to meet the concerns expressed with regard to the definition of parent carrier, i can take the commitment that, in the framework of the current compromise, the commission would issue a formal notice explaining how it intends to interpret that definition when applying the regulation. such notice would be similar to those issued from time to time by the commission with respect to competition matters. this notice would be published in the official journal before the entry into force of the regulation so as to provide the necessary legal certainty to all interested parties. i very much hope that you will consider this proposal favourably. i think i have covered the main points raised during this debate. as usual, i shall send a full list of the amendments and the commission’s position on each of them to the parliament’s secretariat. commission’s position on amendments by parliament kirkhope report (a6-0248/2008) the commission can accept amendments 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 43, 44, 45 and 48. the commission can accept amendments 10, 19, 26 and 28 in principle. the commission can accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 18, 25 and 47 with redrafting. the commission can accept amendment 33 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments 12, 13, 15, 24, 29, 39, 40, 41, 42 and 46.
in writing. computerised reservation systems (crs) are designed primarily to serve consumers. this is why it is so important to ensure transparency in the air ticket reservation market, especially where airlines may limit competition in the market through their participation in computerised reservation systems. of course, the situation on the airline market has changed significantly over the last few years and most airlines have divested their shares in ksr, which does not mean that this applies to all airlines. however, it is essential that, despite their participation in the reservation systems, airlines are not able to influence the operation of the systems in such a way as to favour their routes, which must be properly reflected in the definition of 'home carrier'. the simplification of the code of conduct will increase the possibility of negotiation between market participants (airlines and the ccc will be able to negotiate more freely the amount of the booking fee charged by the ccc). the current rules increase the cost of the cci and limit the flexibility of the cci in adapting its services to the specific needs of airlines and travel agencies, by not allowing the differentiation of the tariff offer for each cci. i hope that the changes will lead to more competition in the air ticket market, with the consumer himself benefiting, in particular, from the expansion of the existing offer and the lower final price of the air ticket.
madam president! i am a member of parliament who deals with the maritime economy on a daily basis. ports are important not only for transport in europe, but also as an important part of the economy and a source of employment. maritime transport and seaports are part of and link the union's single market to the world economy. their effective functioning and continuous development are essential for the competitiveness of the european union, of europe, in a globalising world. and while the cross-border reach of the sector requires coordination of port policy at european level, the foundations of this cannot be created in isolation from local and national needs. i am therefore moderately optimistic about the european union's limited influence on individual member states in the form of soft law, i.e. guidelines and the removal of administrative obstacles to an integrated or sustainable maritime policy.
madam president! i should like to thank mr ortuondo larrea for his report. i am doing this as one of the initiators of the rejection of the draft directive on access to the provision of port services two years ago. i am in favour of treating the port as an infrastructure element and thus of the public sector's strategic responsibility for the development of the port. they don't have to be state-owned ports, but they have to be publicly owned. i also like that we're talking about public assistance. we may need it, and the rules of the game will no doubt serve us well. i wanted to stress the importance of stabilizing conditions for port workers. this is the group of people that, together with the port as an infrastructure, creates a source of economic opportunity. finally, the last element i wanted to highlight is the need to modernise access to ports, i.e. roads, railways, inland waterways, in order to create a multimodal transport hub.
madam president, as the report rightly points out, ports are not only important for transport but also provide our citizens with jobs, have a significant impact on our economies, and are strategic for the security and defence of our member states. in terms of policy, we should primarily focus on their modernisation and development of the sector which includes all of the other logistic operations that are interconnected with ports. with the expansion of any industry, we should always keep the environment in mind, especially when our maritime and waterways are involved. while our policy may protect the environment and the social impact, we should address the problems associated with the non-eu countries which impede on our success in this sector by not applying the same rules and safeguards.
madam president! our discussion of the european union's port policy comes at a time of very dynamic change in the shipbuilding industry. on the one hand, there are prospects for the industry. the number of orders is increasing, the demand for large container ships is increasing. on the other hand, it should be noted that our competitors are in a very strong position. nearly 75% of container ship production is already in asian countries - south korea, japan, china. our shipyards are being pushed into a defensive position, making it increasingly difficult for them to compete in the global marketplace. another problem in the industry is the low dollar. this situation threatens to bankrupt many shipyards in the long term.
acting president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, rapporteur and member for ries, ladies and gentlemen, european citizens in all countries are legitimately concerned about the quality of the environment and are increasingly concerned about the link between the environment and health. the environment ministers had the opportunity to recall this last december: the council is giving increasing importance to this subject. there are a number of different pathologies involved. there are many, but the facts or the links between pollution and health are not always well established. these include respiratory diseases, asthma, allergies, cancer, endocrine disorders, and in particular those affecting the most vulnerable sections of the population - as mrs ries said - such as children, pregnant women, the elderly and the disadvantaged. the new european union strategy for sustainable development, adopted by our heads of state and government in june 2006, rightly places public health as one of the key challenges, with the aim of promoting health without discrimination, improving protection against health threats, and all this is achieved - and i will come back to this - through a lot of prevention. there are several areas for improvement, all of which have been discussed. there's a better cooperation between the health world and the environmental world, which unfortunately, sometimes, tend to go their separate ways. there is a need to improve the quality of environments, and we are doing that, particularly with our work on the ippc directive and the draft soil directive, which we will discuss shortly, and the need we are facing to improve community expertise. there is the work that we all do together internationally, particularly at the world health organization. finally, there is the desire, which we are pursuing in a concrete way, to improve the integration of the environment into all relevant policies, plans and programmes, and in particular the health and environment plan covering the period 2004-2010. in short, it is important to complete this mid-term review in order to ensure that action is as effective as possible. in all these different areas of action, in all that has been mentioned, madam rapporteur, in your work, i would like to stress, as you do, the need for prevention. the council, in its conclusions of last december, and parliament today, believe that action must be taken as soon as possible. we must act quickly and we must act upstream. acting on the principles of prevention and precaution, which certainly requires the development of new tools to anticipate, to be able to analyse potential threats as soon as they emerge or as soon as a suspicion arises and then to be able to accept to consider these problems also in other fields, such as, for example, climate change or biosecurity, which all have a link with health issues.
member of the commission. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago the commission adopted the mid-term evaluation of the european action plan for the environment and health 2004-2010, which takes stock of the implementation of the action plan to date. i am glad that the european parliament has responded positively to this mid-term evaluation by attaching the same high importance as the commission to the interaction between the environment and health. and i am particularly pleased that the french presidency, today and with the minister on previous occasions, has shown its full support for this matter of such importance to the european citizens. as you know, the european action plan on the relationship between the environment and health aims to improve awareness and encourage research on the environment and human health, in order to achieve a better understanding of the threats and risk factors to human health from the environment. this will enable political leaders at european and national level to develop more effective legislation and measures to protect the health of european citizens. the plan, which includes 13 specific actions for the period 2004-10, was drawn up following extensive consultation with experts and actors active in the fields of environment, health and research in europe. the action plan stresses that close cooperation between environmental, health and research services, both at national and european level, is vital to tackle the interactions between environment and health in the best possible way. four years after the adoption of the action plan, i am pleased to report that this close cooperation between the various services has now become established and is clearly a very positive development, in line with last year's mid-term evaluation. to give you a specific example: member states are now working together to develop a coordinated european approach to human biomonitoring involving the ministries of research, health and environment. i think it is important to add that, following the adoption of the progress report last year, the commission has undertaken other important activities in particular on human biomonitoring, the relationship between climate change and health, indoor air quality, research on the environment and health and electromagnetic fields. i am therefore pleased that these issues are included in the european parliament's report. let me briefly outline the new developments: the commission is now taking a broader approach to the problem of indoor air quality, in line with the european parliament's 2005 resolution. many activities have been undertaken which go beyond the specific objectives of the action plan; the commission has also been involved in a number of initiatives, such as new research projects funded by the commission, the setting up of an expert working group, the adoption of a green paper on cigarette smoke and scientific opinions. the legal instrument for better dealing with the issue of indoor air has yet to be decided. on human biomonitoring, the commission regrets that a proposal submitted by a consortium of 24 member states was not considered suitable for funding under the 7th framework programme. however, a new call for proposals on human biomonitoring will be published this month. in the meantime, the commission will continue the preparatory work for the pilot project in the framework of an era-net network and in the framework of an administrative arrangement with the joint research centre in ispra in close cooperation with the member states. with regard to electromagnetic fields, the commission shall ensure the continuous monitoring of scientific developments through its scientific committee on emerging and newly identified health risks and through the emf network, a project of the 6th framework programme. the commission shall promote research in the most relevant thematic areas with a view to determining whether the exposure limit values set out in the council recommendation should be revised. the commission has recently asked its scientific committee on emerging and newly identified health risks to review its opinion in the light of the most recent data and reports. the relationship between climate change and health is clearly among the issues of growing importance, according to the mid-term evaluation, and will be covered in the forthcoming white paper on adaptation to climate change. these developments show that the commission attaches great importance to the further integration of the health dimension into european environmental policy. recent legislation such as the chemicals legislation, reach, and the new air quality directive enhance environmental and health protection and are examples of a mutually beneficial approach to the environment and health for the benefit of european citizens. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs frédérique ries, for her report, the excellent work she has done and the great interest she has shown in the issue of the relationship between the environment and health. i would also like to reiterate the commission's firm position to continue its efforts in line with the environment and health action plan to develop effective environmental legislation and ensure the proper implementation of existing legislation to protect both the environment and the health of european citizens. with these considerations in mind, the commission will play an active role in the preparation of the fifth ministerial conference on environment and health scheduled for july 2009.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the environment and health review 2004-2010, i would like to draw attention to the following points: - first, the legitimate demands of improving the state of the environment or combating climate change require additional financial expenditure, which places the public authorities and economic operators in the new member states in a particularly difficult position, who are necessarily focused mainly on making up for the development gap with the most developed countries of the european union. - secondly, the european union is trying to be a leader in, for example, reducing co2 emissions, but the allocation of emission limits has been made by the commission without taking into account the developmental backlog of individual member states. in this situation, for example, my country - poland - received a lower level of co2 emission limits and this immediately translated into an increase in electricity prices of several percent. it's hard for me to imagine how much electricity prices will go up after 2013, when all the emission limits power plants will have to buy on the open market. the legitimate aim of reducing co2 emissions and thus preventing climate change is therefore becoming increasingly burdensome for energy consumers and is causing widespread social discontent. - thirdly, the right proposals in the health report also require additional financial expenditure, which is particularly difficult for the less developed countries, which already have serious problems in financing health services for their citizens at a very basic level. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs ries on a very comprehensive and insightful report on the impact of the environment on human health.
madam president! the link between environment and health is obvious, and the link between environment and agriculture is also obvious, because a smart, rational agricultural economy is about protecting the environment. unfortunately, we are faced with a situation in agriculture which is threatening the environment: small family farms are collapsing, and there is a very unfavourable process of farming or even the industrialisation of european agriculture, and this is not good for the environment. agricultural policy should give greater protection to small family farms, as they are more environmentally friendly. the growing expansion of gmo technology is also a threat, despite many serious warnings about the negative consequences of gmo cultivation for the environment, human and animal health. the european union should be cautious about gmos. i very much support mrs ries' report and congratulate her on the very good preparation of it.
madam president! i would like to congratulate our rapporteur on this report, which is so important for all of us, for every european. i want to draw attention to one point and emphasize the importance of biomonitoring, a strategy that measures the relationship between environmental pollution and the health of us europeans. this strategy is not worth the money. we need to invest in this research, but we also need to put this research into practice. and before we can be sure of the negative effects that a particular environmental element has on our health, let's not just talk, let's apply the precautionary principle. this principle also prevents more diseases, prevents more allergies, improves the lives and functioning of europeans. i believe that the european union should do more and be more effective for its citizens in the field of environmental diseases. i expect the commission to do the same.
in writing. mr president, respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law is one of the priorities of the european union, which, if necessary, imposes restrictive measures called sanctions to enforce the above objectives. the use of sanctions should be considered in the event of a serious breach of security or civil rights or in the event of ineffective contractual or diplomatic action. the imposition of sanctions should also be justified at the moment of irreversible damage to the environment, as it becomes a threat to security and thus a serious violation of human rights. the application of 'double standards', i.e. lack of consistency and equality in the imposition and enforcement of sanctions, should be avoided. the most common sanctions in the european union are visa bans and arms embargoes. sanctions are also one of the instruments in the fight against terrorism. the blacklisting procedure for institutions and entities linked to terrorist activities is an important tool of the eu's counter-terrorism policy. and to make sanctions more effective, international coordination is needed. the union should continue to apply targeted, intelligent sanctions to address a specific problem and minimise the humanitarian consequences or adverse effects on those who are not targeted.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank mr ouzký for his question, because i too am concerned about the delay in the work on the legislation on soil protection. we have a growing food crisis, more people in the world, less land for agriculture, and less and less room for agricultural intensification. the rational protection of the soil is all the more important in this situation. nothing protects the soil better than a rational agricultural economy, agriculture. soil that's not farmed degrades very quickly. unfortunately, we see a lot of agricultural land that is not being farmed and is being degraded. and that should change. agricultural policy in the european union should promote the value of farming and encourage legislation to encourage farming. and that's a thought i'd like to share with you in this debate.
mr. chairman, please! although it has been almost a year since we adopted our position on the draft soil protection directive at first reading, the council has still not been able to reach an agreement. so far, several member states have used blocking minorities. now there is hope of reaching a compromise during the french presidency. from the statements of the french representative, it seems that this was the hope. we hear many voices of criticism accusing the project of adding bureaucracy or duplicating existing national and community legislation. i think it's the opposite. we need a directive because it will lead to the harmonisation of legislation in this area and will bring together efforts at eu level to protect the soil. to stop its degradation, we must act not only at local, regional but also at community level. the soil is our common property. there is therefore a need to define common principles and objectives and to take appropriate action. it is important that all citizens of the union are aware of the vital role it plays in the ecosystem, in our daily lives and in the economy. unfortunately, many member states still have dangerous substances, landfills and even chemical weapons left over from the soviet military presence. some countries will not be able to cope with these problems on their own. therefore, appropriate incentives and assistance to member states in the removal of these substances are necessary. appropriate regulations that allow the reuse of degraded land while limiting soil degradation and ensuring its sustainable use are urgently needed. this will undoubtedly be a step forward in environmental protection and in the preservation of the precious natural resource of soil. this directive will help us do that. we must therefore continue to legislate on it and seek the opinion of independent experts so that they can formulate views that we can take into account.
mr president, on a point of order, yesterday, before the vote on the motion for a resolution on georgia, our colleague mr schulz – officially, before the whole of europe – accused president saakashvili of triggering the whole conflict. this is russian propaganda, similar to the one according to which polish soldiers were murdered by germans in katyn, which prevailed for 50 years. i think that mr schulz and the whole group have much to learn about russian methods, russian intrigues and russian propaganda. (sustained applause from the right)
five times my voting machine failed to work on a roll call vote. and i noticed that, and i tried to speak up, but i wasn't allowed to. this is not right. for a while, there was no translation into polish, and there was no reaction. i beg you not to treat us like this anymore.
mr. chairman, please! mrs flautre's report is perhaps one of the most important adopted during this part-session. he is talking about an instrument of sanctions which we as the european union cannot abandon, although we should use it in a very flexible, cautious and rather infrequent way so that this instrument does not undergo a certain devaluation, inflation. however, i would caution against applying double standards to this instrument. sanctions should be a threat not only to poor, small countries that violate human rights, but also to the rich, the largest, which are good business partners for the european union. these countries should also be aware that the european union may benefit from the sanctions instrument.
mr. chairman, please! this report is extremely important. the characteristic of advanced economies is a high demand for services. they determine the standard of living and well-being of societies. the demand for the development of services related to modern technology, for high-quality services that meet the standards and expectations of the recipients, is systematically increasing. gdp growth is increasingly dependent on the size of services. services account for a significant proportion of trade. the market for this is systematically developing. this is why we talk so much about the conditions and principles for the liberalisation of trade in services at world level within the wto. many types of services, especially those that are a very sophisticated category of goods, are extremely profitable. the process of liberalising trade in services is therefore slow and resistant. and so in closing, i want to say that we've entered a period where the main determinants of development are services.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report on european port policy because it raises a number of important issues for this sector of the economy. this also applies to poland. i wondered how these records related to the situation of polish shipyards in gdańsk, gdynia and szczecin. the european commission has been investigating the polish companies for a long time. the szczecin shipyard, the fifth largest in europe, is facing serious problems. the gdynia shipyard is in a similar situation. this is the result of the many years of overlapping problems of transformation and the impact of the international situation which i mentioned in my speech yesterday. so what is happening with the polish shipyards at the moment? in the commission's view, these shipyards are not sources of employment. they are not subject to unfair competition. this may sound very strange. in addition, in order to reach its full potential, it is proposed to close two slopes, which is completely absurd. the plan to restructure these yards is being rejected time and again, leading to their collapse rather than to the rebuilding of the european shipbuilding industry's position in the world.
in writing. - the computerised reservation system is a platform for the sale of air and rail tickets, linking their suppliers. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council was designed to amend the current rules and to increase competition between computerised reservation systems. the amendment of the code was prepared to improve transparency and to prevent distortions of competition and market abuse. i voted against the report on the code of conduct for computerised booking systems because i was in favour of referring it back to the committee on transport and tourism. the commission proposal contained, in my view, too many vague concepts (in particular the key concept of the home carrier). i therefore believe that it does not fully protect the interests of consumers in the european single market.
in writing. - on amendment no 48, i voted against the violation of the equal rights of competitors, which distinguishes the three countries of the european union and gives them a privileged position in the market. unfortunately, the voting machine failed, and my signals that it was malfunctioning were ignored. i'd like to be counted as a voter against the 2nd amendment.
in writing. - the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the situation of palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons is biased and therefore distorts the real picture of the conflict in the middle east. it completely ignores the political context and the need for the israeli authorities to ensure the security of their citizens. despite ongoing peace negotiations and goodwill gestures such as the recent decision to release 198 palestinian prisoners, israel is in a state of constant terrorist threat from the palestinian territories. as the only democratic state in the region, israel is fighting this threat with democratic methods and means. furthermore, in condemning the israeli authorities for inappropriate measures against minors, the resolution ignores the fact that according to amnesty international reports, terrorist organisations such as the al-aqsa martyrs' brigades, hamas, islamic jihad and the palestinian liberation front recruit and use minors as emissaries and, in some cases, as fighters and suicide bombers in attacks against israeli soldiers and civilians. in view of the one-sided and incomplete treatment of the palestinian prisoners, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - the sanctions applied by the european union are a means of ensuring the effectiveness of the common foreign and security policy. these are diplomatic or, more often, economic instruments which serve to ensure respect for the fundamental principles of international law, democracy and human rights. i think the rapporteur is right in calling for a periodic review of the existing restrictive measures. the rules for applying sanctions should be formulated in a precise manner so that their application is always preceded by a thorough and individual analysis. in my view, the priority is to design economic sanctions in such a way that (especially in the case of blacklisting practices) they do not have a negative impact on society and do not infringe the rights of citizens in the sanctioned countries. that is why i support the report on the evaluation of eu sanctions in the area of human rights in this part. where sanctions are necessary, i also consider it appropriate to introduce positive measures for the benefit of the nationals of the state against which the restrictive measures are imposed.
in writing. - on paragraph 57 in the roll call i voted against. unfortunately, the voting machine failed, and my signals that it was malfunctioning were ignored, as were the five other roll-call votes. i ask that my vote be counted as a vote against the original text of paragraph 57 of the resolution.
in writing. - the resolution contains cryptic abortion clauses and explicitly calls for the legalization of abortion. speaking out on this is a violation of the principle of subsidiarity. this also means that funds from the contributions of member states where abortion is not permitted can be directed to this purpose in third countries. using the pretext of women's health to promote abortion and spending money on it instead of improving maternal health is hypocrisy. that's why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. − the share of services in the european economy is over three quarters. the services sector is crucial to the competitiveness and innovation of europe's largely knowledge-based economy. an effective internal market for services in the european union is essential for the competitiveness of eu businesses in the global marketplace. timely and correct implementation and transposition of the directive on services in the internal market will be key to the functioning of the european market. trade in services is largely a transfer of expertise between countries. free trade in services therefore plays an important role in any development strategy, as it allows for the rapid and efficient transfer of know-how on a large scale. wider access to the services market is therefore an opportunity not only for developed countries but also for developing countries, which often lack access to know-how. in the case of services, market access is a difficult process in the context of the ongoing wto negotiations. however, it must not be forgotten that negotiations on trade in services must serve both the interests of the eu and the economic growth of the poorest countries. after all, it is the opening up of trade in services that could lead, through the opening up of foreign investment, to more and more sustainable production, as well as to the modernisation of infrastructure in all economies.
in writing. −the report on trade in services aims to highlight the role of trade in services as a sector that continuously creates new jobs and increases the well-being of citizens. these services now account for as much as 75% of the eu's gdp. the rapporteur calls for the opening up and liberalisation of the market for trade in services. of course, liberalization and increased competitiveness in the market are necessary, but i believe that opening up trade in services cannot mean privatisation. we must clearly distinguish the nature of commercial services from public services and, consequently, guarantee a firm distinction in the approach to opening up trade in public and commercial services.
in writing. - the 'services revolution' since the mid-20th century has made services the most important sector of the economy in most countries. technological progress, particularly in telecommunications and information technology, has fundamentally changed the way services are perceived and their ability to participate in international trade. the rapid expansion of this sector, combined with technological progress, has led to the development of international trade in services. poland's share in international trade in services, like that of other central and eastern european countries, has always been small. however, this was largely the result of the underdevelopment of the services sector in centrally planned economies. the sector was fundamentally transformed by the transition period, which was followed by the period of association with the european communities. as a result, the services sector is already undergoing major changes and poland's integration into the community and the associated process of adjusting the polish economy to ec requirements should increase the pace of development of the services sector and poland's ability to participate in international trade in services. i therefore believe that the eu should do its utmost to improve the quality of trade in services as a sector that creates wealth and jobs in all economies in the world and as a factor that accelerates development.
in writing. - i agree with mr cramer that we need to improve the efficiency, inclusiveness and sustainability of freight transport in europe. i also agree with all the elements that are supposed to help us achieve the goal we set. focusing on transport corridors, promoting innovative technologies, innovative infrastructure and more efficient freight management, simplifying administrative procedures and the freight transport chain, making non-road transport more attractive are guidelines that i fully support. i believe that the priorities chosen by the rapporteur will have a significant impact on the improvement of freight transport in europe.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the situation in mauritania is known to those who are interested. it is also known to those members who, like me, have had the honour of representing the european parliament in this country. i think that my very experienced colleague, mrs béguin, is right when she says that we need to increase our resources so that, as in the case of other countries, the european parliament can intervene effectively in this matter. the point here is not to say what is good, what should be, or what are the rules, but to help in a real way those people who are fighting for civil rights and democratic values where it is much more difficult than in the european union. hence the proposal to spread these funds so that they are actually used effectively.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mauritania is a poor and unusual islamic country, plagued by basically bloodless coups, recognizing israel, supporting the united states in the fight against al-qaeda, with a democratic constitution. it is plagued by natural disasters, and it is a place of slavery that robs people of their cultural, religious and personal identity. however, this process is hereditary. the country is estimated to be making good use of the aid it receives for infrastructure and education. the latest attack comes as al-qaeda has declared a holy war, which could lead to destabilization, increased hunger, destruction of any signs of progress, deaths and the introduction of inhuman methods of radical islamism. in the face of these threats, swift action by the european union and the organisations of african states is needed to prevent this tragedy.
mr. chairman, please! it's a shame we have to discuss mauritania today. mauritania is a country whose first free elections last year were recognized by the international community, including the european parliament's observation mission, as fair and transparent. it is a country that has made significant progress on issues that are critical to its democratization, stability and further development, such as the criminalization of slavery, the liberalization of the media and the return of refugees. today mauritania is taking a step backwards, overturning the result of democratic elections and showing no respect for the rule of law. although there are different interpretations and assessments of president abdellah's actions, the issue remains unchanged. the removal of a president elected in a general, democratic and free election should not and cannot be achieved by a coup d'état. this kind of practice cannot take place in a country of emerging democracy, as mauritania has recently become. the european union should work with the government of mauritania and the african union to resolve this issue.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to join my colleague kaczmarek in saying that the fact that a coup d'état is taking place in africa, specifically in mauritania, is not surprising. if you look at the map of africa, the processes of democratization, which, thank god, have already begun and are ongoing, are still very weak. and that's a fact. our role is to help democratize as much as possible. that's what we do on our observation missions, when it comes to parliamentary or presidential elections, and also financial aid. our presence there and making people aware of what democracy is, that they are participating in it after a lot of preparation, is probably the lesson that is worth investing in, and that's what we're doing. i'm all for not being stingy in this regard, but rather being generous. this is the future of africa.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today we're talking about the crimes that iran is committing against its own citizens. the thing is, unlike many of the things we often discuss, iran is not at war with anyone. so there's no such thing as the greatest tension that can be created by a crime. iran has a relatively democratically elected regime. so again, there shouldn't be this political tension. iran also has no internal ethnic tensions. yet, at least one execution takes place every day in iran. execution of juveniles, execution of often older people for acts committed at the age of 13 or 14. the international community should learn from this. and it should exclude iran from those international organizations where it is possible. but sometimes, this has consequences, and the best example of this is that the stoning has been suspended. i would also like to appeal to the iranian authorities not to hand over the people in camp ashraf, as they would be at risk of being handed over to the execution.
mr. chairman, please! international law leaves no room for doubt. the death penalty may not be applied to a person who was under 18 years of age at the time of the crime. iran is violating that international law. i want to emphasize that iran, as a state, has been a party to international conventions. he signed a pledge of this kind. in july this year, 24 human rights organizations from around the world called on iran to suspend the use of the death penalty against juveniles and to suspend the use of the death penalty in iran in general. this year, the death penalty has been applied to six juveniles. this is the 26th person since 2005. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we have already discussed the barbaric methods of law enforcement in iran in the european parliament. we cannot allow the people who are currently in the ashraf camp to be extradited to this country because of the lack of rule of law in iran.
mr. chairman, please! the human rights situation in iran is not improving. two men were hanged yesterday in arak and borujerd, and many are awaiting execution. in iraq, at camp ashraf, there are several thousand opponents of the ayatollah regime. they are members of the people's mujahideen organization, and they are in danger of being expelled from iraq. it will mean certain death for many of them. the resolution calls for the immediate and long-term solution to the problem of iranian refugees in the camp, given the planned change in the status of the us armed forces, which have provided security to the camp's residents in accordance with the fourth geneva convention. and by the way, i would like to remind you once again to urgently enforce the court rulings and remove the people's mujahideen from the list of terrorist organizations.
mr. chairman, please! public executions are on the rise in iran. according to amnesty international, about 200 convicts are killed in this way every year in front of thousands of people. the death penalty is used in iran for blasphemy, apostasy, adultery and prostitution, among other crimes. the draconian punishments for immorality or conversion are rightly protested by human rights activists outside iran and reformist politicians inside iran. the west cannot be a passive observer of these macabre acts. parliament should expressly condemn the actions of the iranian regime, while supporting the peaceful and reformist aspirations of the opposition represented by the people's mujahideen organisation. the natural consequence of the democratic evolution of this organization, led by mrs. maryam rajavi, is that it has been removed from the official list of terrorist organizations of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! to punish a ten-year-old child with death is an atrocity. using cranes as gallows is a crime, but it's also a mockery of technological progress. public executions are also a way of promoting aggressive behavior among the population. we have discussed the situation in iran many times, which is cynically violating its international commitments. our resolutions are not producing any results. i expect the european commission to consider sanctions in connection with the iranian authorities' crimes against their own people.
mr. chairman, please! absurd law and the psychology of terror is the shortest definition of today's totalitarianism in iran. the crux of the law is that people know what's punishable, but there has to be some proportionality. we have one example in history - in soviet russia there was no law at all. there was the will of one all-knowing man and his office, the kgb. in iran, the absurdity is that anything can be punished by death. there are no courts, no logic, no judgment at all. therefore, the demand is that no political refugees, especially young people, in this case from iraq, from anywhere, should be returned to iran, because this is a cotton mill, not a judiciary.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think this is certainly one of the saddest questions of human rights violations, namely the death sentence – and particularly the death sentence carried out on young people. i think we all share the same profound, serious and urgent need to do something. there was a debate in june on the same issue, and yet between june and now the situation has unfortunately not improved but deteriorated. the extent and the severity of our concern is reflected in the growing number of statements published also by the european union since the june debate – eight more to date. you mentioned many cases and i also would like to mention a few. last week, for instance, the day after the eu deplored the hanging of mr hejazi, a minor, yet another juvenile execution took place. on 26 august mr zaree was put to death at the prison in shiraz. this was despite specific calls for mercy emanating not only from the european union, but also from all over the world, notably from the un high commissioner for human rights. mr zaree’s execution has brought the number of juvenile executions – as you have said – since the beginning of this year to the very high number of six. information suggests that there are over a hundred minors on death row in iran. unfortunately the death toll keeps rising. as we speak, yet another minor, mr soleimanian, faces imminent execution. the moratorium on youth executions, decreed by iran’s chief judiciary, is blatantly and repeatedly violated by his own judges. regarding the question of camp ashraf, the geneva conventions should of course apply as for anyone else. in the case of forceful deportation to iran of camp ashraf residents, necessary representations towards the government of iran will have to be made. we have tried on many occasions either to speak up openly or to try discreet diplomacy. i, myself, on every occasion when either the foreign minister or the president of the parliament came to see me on other issues – on nuclear issues – always made the case very strongly. we were only successful in one case and that was the stoning of women. i have always spoken out against that but, as you can imagine, i am also totally against what is happening to young people and of course, to the death sentence in general. however the iranian authorities’ ears are largely deaf to our calls. we sometimes, therefore, have no choice but to resort to the so-called ‘megaphone diplomacy’ that tehran claims to abhor and reject. iran must face up to its own responsibilities. its behaviour can only cast a shadow over its already tainted international reputation. without a concrete improvement in the human rights situation, our common objective of developing the relationship between the european union and the islamic republic of iran cannot proceed properly, even if the nuclear issue were to be solved. i trust that the european parliament and all eu partners will agree to this line and act accordingly. today i call once more on the authorities of the islamic republic of iran to fully abide by the international conventions to which it is party. i call on iran to spare the lives of all minors still languishing on death row. the whole human rights situation is indeed very difficult. as you know, we had a human rights dialogue, but unfortunately this did not work. we tried to work on public diplomacy and we are working closely with eu member states to pursue a well-coordinated public diplomacy. we have allocated eur 3 million for a tv news service in farsi. we are also trying to work with civil society in iran, but many obstacles are being put in our way.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the 21st century, people are killed just because they're albino. this is the case in tanzania, a country where more than a third of the population lives below the poverty line. the scale of the problem is illustrated by the fact that 173 people have recently been arrested for the murder or maiming of albinos. in the last six months, 25 people have been killed or maimed because of this. we can talk about a very large population of albinos in the world. in fact, 50 people in a million are albinos. but only in tanzania are they treated so cruelly. their blood and body parts are traded, and the responsibility here lies with the animist shamans, the gangs they hire, and, it should be emphasized, the police, who turn a blind eye. in closing, i want to say that our protest here will only be effective if the albino population in tanzania is provided with health care, education and the opportunity to integrate into society.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in march of this year, more than 25 albinos, including children, were brutally killed and maimed in the lake victoria region. in these areas, there have been previous acts of aggression against people who were believed to have so-called supernatural abilities. with 36% of tanzanians living below the poverty line, with little or no access to medical care, it is common practice to seek help from local shamans. the belief in supernatural abilities is also reinforced by the low level of education of the local population, which additionally negates everything else. albinos, particularly those in sub-saharan africa, have been the victims of open discrimination because of their differences. they are denied not only medical care but also social and legal care. discrimination in everyday life, in schools, public institutions and the labour market is a daily practice. albinos feel humiliated at every turn and treated as second-class citizens. punishing those responsible for the killings, while working on the ground to raise awareness among tanzanian society, could counter existing intolerance and curb future acts of aggression against albinos. this requires support for initiatives already taken by the tanzanian government, including special protection for albino children, and cooperation with civil society and ngos. the focus of action must be on rural areas, where social awareness is lowest. in addition, the commission and the member states of the union should strongly support the emergency measures taken by the tanzanian albinos association. further steps should be taken to ensure that the albino population has full rights to education, access to the labour market and social and health protection.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. since march, 25 people have been killed in tanzania for their alleged superstitious practices. they are based on the belief that the body parts of albinos - legs, hands, hair, and blood - make them healthy, happy, and wealthy. the latest victim is a seven-month-old baby. last year, 25 albinos also lost their lives. occult practices are found along the shores of lake victoria, in agricultural areas, and among fishermen and miners. albinos are often the target of discrimination and harassment. president jakaya kikwete, using the police, has been trying to locate the albino people in hiding, declaring that he will provide them with protection. but this does not inspire confidence on their part, for they fear those who practice the occult, including the police. the albino murders are organized by a gang of shamans. 173 people from this community were arrested for alleged involvement in the crime. we welcome the nomination of ms. al-shymai kwegyir, an albino, as a member of parliament in recognition of her fight against discrimination, at the request of the president, as a step in the right direction. we support the work of the tanzanian albinos association and expect the commission to give it real support.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the human rights issue we are discussing today is the subversive tanzanian problem, where albinos are discriminated against, as they are in many african countries. but the most brutal killings have been in tanzania, where more than 25 people were killed last year. of the 39 million tanzanians, 270,000 suffer from a genetic defect caused by a recessive gene that causes the lack of pigment in the skin, putting albinos at risk for visual impairment, skin burns, cancer and premature death. for the defect to be revealed, both parents must carry the gene. women who give birth to albino children are forced into divorce, and children are treated as a curse on the family, possessed by unclean spirits, or as animals, although on the other hand, shamans spread rumors about the magical properties of the white skin of albinos, which is supposed to be helpful in gaining good fortune and wealth. this leads to their killing, along with their brutal dismemberment and use in potions. it's hard to know what the purpose and reason for this barbarity is, but perhaps it's an attempt to eliminate the genetically defective patients. despite the recent government condemnation of violence against white africans, the promotion of education campaigns and even the election of a female member of parliament with albinism, the tragedy of these people continues. in addition, there is a lack of funding for protective clothing and other assistance for marginalized, discriminated populations who are also prevented from working and studying. protests and appeals from the international community, as well as educational and financial assistance, can help to counter this type of extreme discrimination and to force the application of legal procedures against the 173 pseudo-shaman detainees, who are accused of criminal activities, incitement to murder and trafficking in human organs.
mr. chairman, please! in india, the murder of a hindu leader, blamed by the police on the maoists, has led to pogroms by hindu fundamentalists against christians. their homes and schools are burned. it is their religion that hindu fundamentalists falsely accuse of committing crimes. in the state of orissa, more than 40,000 christians are hiding in the jungle. some 15,000 are in refugee camps, guarded by police. more than 20 people were murdered. in tangia and rupagaon villages, christians were killed by fire and arson. at least 8 people were killed in kandhamal district. no less than ten churches were burned. archbishop vincent concessao, the metropolitan of delhi, believes that more effective forms of violence suppression are needed. meanwhile, the local authorities are not doing the necessary. chrystianophobia should be treated in the same way as other extreme forms of intolerance.
the global financial crisis means that the transparency of funds using alternative investment options should also be an important topic in the european parliament. increasing the transparency of companies through legal instruments, in particular with regard to the relationship between hedge funds and private equity funds and the companies in which they hold hold shares, is now a priority. the so-called codes of good practice developed so far may serve as a model, but they cannot replace legislative action in relation to instances of bad practice. the need to develop a code of best practice on how to rebalance the current corporate governance structure is essential. the new legislation should also require hedge funds and private equity funds to disclose and explain their investment policies and the associated risks to retail and institutional investors, insurance brokers and supervisory authorities.
madam president, such failure of financial markets has never happened until now. the main cause was the enormous increase in turnover, and the development of a new system of financial gain beyond the existing banking system without transparency, any effective evaluation or supervision. new investments and vehicles brought big profits, but also caused an increasing threat, even to the imf. although the proposal from mr rasmussen and his committee concerning transparency and supervision – particularly of the excessive debt leverage - are right and indispensable, we should also acknowledge as very dangerous the opinion of the committee on legal affairs which demands simply that it be left solely to participants in the market to assess the appropriate level of risk to take. the committee overlooked the fact that last year the average securities firm was leveraged 27 to 1, with no regulation or supervision. what is more, they regulated themselves completely on their own, and even the big lenders ignored the extent of the risk they were taking. the cost of this failure will be extremely high. the cost to americans, for example, has been terrible, at around usd 1 000 billion. it will have yet another additional effect: the actors on financial markets may not learn to be more cautious, because they will be accustomed to relying on help from taxpayers. we then have the choice of either protecting the almost full freedom of choice for financial actors in taking risks, or to impose distinct obligations and limitations insuring effectively against excessive shocks and guaranteeing a stabilising development of financial markets. the opinion of the commissioner gives some hope for the future, but i am afraid that the tasks facing the commission are extremely difficult and demand much more courage in finding new methods and new measures.
madam president! both events in recent years, and even months, and efforts by individual countries and regions, indicate the growing importance of transparency not only for individual companies but also for the development of individual countries' economies. the global nature of the hedge fund industry and the possibility of moving the fund's head office to another country to avoid being subject to national rules are obstacles to the direct regulation of the hedge fund industry. this is the main reason why all international institutions dealing with hedge funds seek to influence the activities of the funds through their relationships with regulated entities, in particular banks. the problems of transparency in the european union are mainly concentrated on the convergence and harmonisation of the laws of the member states. the areas of concern related to transparency aspects can be summarised as follows: the establishment of uniform standards for the disclosure of information by companies that list their shares on a stock exchange and company law and corporate governance relating to the issue of collective liability of authorities for information contained in financial statements, the strengthening of the role of independent board members, standards for the establishment of committees within the board, the disclosure of information on remuneration of members and board directors, and the enhancement of investor protection. while the introduction of uniform regulations creating better conditions for the operation and distribution of hedge funds in the european union could have a positive impact on their development in europe, the introduction of individual country-specific rules for funds does not contribute to the creation of a single, common european market. the establishment of common, transparent rules would greatly facilitate the distribution of the products of the funds. the european commission, which has been recommended to revise the framework for non-harmonised products such as hedge funds in the interests of creating a pan-european market, considers that there are no significant arguments in favour of creating eu rules on hedge funds. nothing could be more wrong! i support the rapporteur's request for the commission to submit a legislative proposal on the transparency of hedge funds and private equity.
madam president, to begin with i would like to congratulate poul nyrup rasmussen for his preparation of the report based on such profound analyses and excellent knowledge of the financial markets. both types of alternative financial instruments that we are discussing have an increasing share of assets in the global market and participate in creating new jobs. however, the most important thing in the face of the financial crisis we have lately been observing with great anxiety and unsuccessfully trying to fight is to ensure financial stability. in my opinion, the most efficient way to increase not only financial stability, but also fair competition between participants in the market, is to enhance supervision and transparency at the appropriate levels without doing any harm to the model based on innovative market strategies. some norms concerning the financial markets that have a direct and indirect application to hedge funds and private equity do exist above the national and european level. nevertheless, we should strive for the coherent, non-discriminatory and consistent implementation and application of those juridical regulations. for this reason, i fully agree with the recommendations of the european parliament, directed at the commission, for increased activity and submission of the appropriate legislative proposals.
thank you very much. thank you. i'm sorry, but time is up.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr david hammerstein mintz. i am very pleased that mr david hammerstein mintz has drawn up this report, because he is a very committed and distinguished member of the committee on petitions. he's a member i've had the pleasure of working with for the past four years. i would also like to thank all the other members of the committee on petitions, including those who have spoken and those who will speak here, and the secretariat of the committee on petitions, which is doing a great job. as mr david hammerstein mintz has reported to us, the number of petitions has increased enormously. and that's a job that's a huge burden on the secretariat. the committee on petitions is a very special committee because, as already mentioned, it does not work for legislation to the same extent as other committees, but works primarily to build the communication between the european institutions, and above all the european parliament, and the citizens. as mr busuttil said, the european parliament enjoys a great deal of confidence, and that confidence is due, among other things, to the work of our committee. because 1,500 petitions are not 1,500 people. these petitions often have hundreds of thousands of supporters. i remind you that the one-seat parliament had over a million signatures. there were over a million references to god and christianity in the constitution. in the case of cope radio in barcelona, it was 700,000. and then there were tens of thousands of signatures under petitions about the spanish zoning plans, equitable life, the lloyds case. millions of citizens in the union know that the committee on petitions is a part of the european parliament and that it is often their last resort. i'm afraid i don't have time to go into that. once again, i would like to thank all those who contribute to the successful work of the committee on petitions. i would just like to regret that the conference of political group chairmen first rejected the report on the ombudsman's report on maladministration in the european anti-fraud office. what a shame! the conference of presidents also rejected the report on discrimination against children of broken marriages in europe, which we called the jugendamt jugendamt report. it was about discrimination against children of broken german-foreign marriages. i very much regret that the conference of presidents has not helped the citizens of the european union to get help from the european parliament.
mr. president, please consider this a small gesture of thanks for your excellent work. we're going to continue this discussion.
mr. chairman, please! in 2007, parliament registered over 1 500 petitions, a rise of 50% on the previous year, which is a clear indication of the growing awareness of citizens that they can assert their rights at european level. more than 500 petitions were discussed at the meetings of the committee on petitions, 159 of them in the presence of the petitioners. in addition, six fact-finding missions were carried out in 2007 in germany, spain, ireland, poland, france and cyprus, resulting in recommendations for all stakeholders. the concerns of eu citizens expressed in the petitions focus mainly on issues such as the environment and its protection, property rights, free movement and workers' rights, recognition of professional qualifications and discrimination. the petition process can make a positive contribution to the process of better law-making, in particular by identifying areas identified by petitioners where european union law is still weak or ineffective. therefore, the competent legislative committees should pay particular attention to the problems raised in petitions when preparing and negotiating new or amended legislation. given that member states do not always show the political will to find practical solutions to the problems raised in petitions, the committee on petitions should seek to improve the efficiency of its work in order to better serve citizens and meet their expectations. better interinstitutional coordination should speed up the process of dealing with complaints as well as the system of forwarding petitions deemed inadmissible to the competent national authorities. the effectiveness of the committee on petitions gives citizens a clear signal that their legitimate concerns are being addressed effectively, creating a real link between citizens and the european union.
there is nobody on the catch-the-eye list at this moment. a rule is a rule. so you may finish your speech!
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 23 september 2008.
the next item is the report by katerina batzeli, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european year of creativity and innovation (2009) (com (2008) 0159 - c6-0151/2008 - 2008/0064 (cod)) (a6-0319/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: "i close my eyes to see better", said paul gauguin. we want to see better, understand better, and act better. we need to unlock the talents that lie within us. the use of all the creative forces that european societies have is essential if we are to meet the challenges that the world presents. we're less than 8% of the population of this planet. others are neither passive nor less capable. i therefore support the idea of establishing a european year of creativity and innovation on behalf of the uen group. but i wouldn't want it to be an action for me. we have to do everything we can to not waste the opportunities and the capacity to create new, positive value in all areas: whether it's technology, whether it's entrepreneurship, whether it's finance, whether it's social issues and so on. we cannot afford to waste the talents, skills and hard work of thousands of talented europeans, young and old, including people with disabilities. we must do everything we can to simplify the procedures for implementing innovative solutions. let's use the 7th framework programme to do that!
mr. chairman, please! increasing consumption, resources for economic development, health and culture in the ongoing process of globalisation increasingly depends on the efficiency of the scientific base, pro-innovation and creativity of citizens on a daily basis, the development of better organisational and financial forms for innovative implementation, ideas that increase productivity, improve quality, create jobs, reduce costs and improve competitiveness. the development of training, including continuing training, which should contribute to the creation of creative thinking, is essential in these activities. pro-innovation thinking should be encouraged by means of communication that showcase achievements and respect for their creators. innovative actions on the farm, in the municipality, in the county, etc. can unleash a great deal of engagement, provided that administrative barriers are removed and the full integration of society, which is largely up to the politicians, is achieved. 2009 the year of creativity and innovation should not be a year of thinking but a year of concrete, creative action. the draft directive is a necessary document and the proposed amendments do not alter its substance. thank you for the report, mrs batzelli.
mr. chairman, please! innovation and creativity are key to knowledge-based economies, and the european economy certainly is. meeting the challenges of globalisation, and seizing the opportunities it brings, requires an innovative and creative approach. business is just one area where innovation and creativity are important factors for success, often determining the competitive edge of firms. without it, it is difficult to talk about products or services that meet the growing expectations of consumers. i therefore believe that greater involvement of enterprises, and in particular taking into account their experience in exploiting the potential of innovation and creativity of the human factor, should be strongly emphasised in the european commission's plans. innovation and creativity as skills are hard to learn, but they can certainly be nurtured. education is essential to stimulate their development. it should not be limited to school or academic education. it is important that the promotion of creativity and innovation is present at all stages of learning, from the various forms of education and training through working life to retirement. the experience of existing education programmes, but also of other initiatives, especially those with a cross-border dimension, can be used to promote innovation and creativity. i believe that designating 2009 as the european year of innovation and creativity will be an effective way of raising awareness among citizens, disseminating information on good practice, stimulating research, creativity and, above all, stimulating discussion on the policies and changes that need to be initiated to ensure that creativity and innovation are better supported by the european institutions, member states and businesses.
mr. chairman, please! it's not often that i get up and give a speech and say that i agree with all the prefaces. you have explained and justified very well why this year is necessary, and i think that was particularly well said by mr janowski a few minutes ago. but i also agree with those who say that this could be another year that we kind of "cheat" and nothing comes of it. so unless we want to make a complaint like that in a year or two, we probably have to prepare a few more details. it is so concrete to say that this is how we are implementing our main priority, the lisbon strategy. i've never heard that in any of the speeches. this is an incredibly important element. and in the lisbon strategy, for the first time, we are thus combining technical and economic problems with those related to the artistic context. if i'm going to talk about concrete things, i think we need to do it on two levels. the first level (i take advantage of the fact that you are commissioner figel and that you are in charge of education) is education systems. we need to look at what it looks like in the european union. do our high school graduations really provide the foundation for the creative thinking of the young people who graduate from high school? it has to be a real overview of what's happening in europe. aesthetic sensitivity, and on the other hand, mathematical ability, science that's what we lack. traditional humanities don't offer that kind of opportunity. the association of european universities also speaks often on this subject. and one last thing, very important. as regards the measures, it is possible to allocate certain funds at the level of the european union. we must make sure that after this year we have a report, concrete data, on what it looks like in the individual member states, what we lack, how we can compare it, because we have never done this kind of comparison at european level, so seriously. it'll help us with the lisbon strategy.
in writing. before becoming an mep, i had the opportunity to become familiar with the principles of the scientific community and private entrepreneurs. my experience confirms that europe needs to develop its creative and innovative capacity for both social and economic reasons. i believe that the coming year of creativity and innovation is a great opportunity to make the eu more competitive in a globalised world. projects to further develop cooperation between member states in the fields of education, exchange of practices and the european knowledge and innovation community are supported by both the polish government and the eu authorities. i welcomed the consolidation of the eit idea by establishing its headquarters in budapest in june 2008. to fully exploit human skills and the opportunities offered by ideas such as the eit, not only is a well-developed infrastructure needed to nurture human creativity, but also facilities that provide decent working conditions in which to grow. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to your initiative to set up a part of the eit in poland, specifically in łódź. the boat is unique in europe, both in its innovation in the world of modern science and in the usefulness of its ideas in business. taking advantage of favourable circumstances such as the year of creativity and innovation and harnessing the untapped potential of cities such as łódź can benefit us all!
, in writing. i would like to stress the need for the european union to ensure a balance between private and public media in europe. interference in the news content by the owners of tv and radio stations violates democratic standards. i come from a country where the current government is destroying the independence of the media. we're seeing a series of moves to bring the public media under the control of the ruling team. i support all initiatives to defend the public media, because they are a powerful political tool. public media need additional protection due to the lack of sufficient funding and political pressure they face, especially in the new member states.
, in writing. the european parliament's report on the situation and prospects of mountain farming rightly calls on the european commission to present a strategy for mountain areas within six months. this is a concrete step to take account of the specific conditions in which 19% of all eu citizens live and work. the european parliament's proposal, which addresses the daily problems of the polish population of podhala, deserves our support. the current mountain guidelines have been based almost exclusively on agricultural policy. this report also highlights the need to support agriculture through compensatory payments and support for high quality products. mountain areas, on the other hand, have many other problems to address, which the eu should be involved in, as they cover a wide range of economic, social and housing issues. it is therefore good that the report addresses the problems of access to the transport network and the internet. in addition, municipalities should be supported financially and through concrete solutions at regional level to improve the level of municipal services. at the same time, we must remember the activities of the "mountain people" in the protection of national traditions and nature. the importance of sustainable social structures and the need for sustainable use of the environment should be emphasised. the best example of 'good practice' in this area is undoubtedly the podhale.
mr. chairman, please! terrorism is one of the greatest threats of our time. the 9/11 attacks have made that very clear. terrorism is based on psychological as well as social media influence. hence the problem of the many questions about how to prevent such threats, which have become global. the spread of fear and terror and attacks on civilians is the face of terrorism. the union must ensure a high level of security for its citizens. particular attention should be paid to the use of information and communication technologies by terrorists, in particular the internet, which facilitates the dissemination of propaganda messages and training manuals. that's what we need to counter. the fight against terrorism must be a priority for us in the union, especially its most dangerous form - islamic terrorism - which aims to destroy western civilization outright. what do you want me to do? the choice is simple. the annihilation of terrorism or the apocalypse of the world funded by terrorism.
i sometimes get the impression, listening to this debate, that we forget that the framework decision is addressed to democratic countries, to the member states of the european union with well-established democracy. there is therefore no urgent reason, no urgent need, to restrict the scope of the framework decision by introducing the notions of 'incitement' or 'actual terrorist threat'. this is the culture of suspicion that mr fava was talking about, suspicion of the state. who's to say how real the threat has become? it is not enough to have blood on the streets of one european city or another to be 100% sure that the threat of training, incitement and incitement has become real. these and other safeguard clauses can be interpreted in bad faith, for example at the level of the courts. they can therefore be seen as an expression of ideology, a false understanding of human rights, which in this case is a blow to the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism. i call for more confidence in the member states, for the framework decision not to be weakened and for the framework decision to be consistent with the convention on the fight against terrorism, drawn up by the council of europe family of states.
mr president, many colleagues have made wise comments on how to strike the right balance between preventing terrorist acts and safeguarding our civil liberties, especially with respect to data storage and collection. i would like to raise the issue of what data is being collected on our citizens and how it is stored and accessed. let me just give one example of data collection which probably affects most colleagues in this hemicycle. we frequently travel by air and are customers of airport shops, and any purchase that we make requires the presentation of a boarding pass. while different tax rates on perfumes, alcohol and tobacco may justify this, have you ever considered why your boarding pass is needed when you purchase a newspaper? who needs to know whether you purchase the right-leaning daily telegraph or the left-leaning libération? if it served no purpose, why would someone collect it? secondly, we need to increase safeguards on storage and access to data. how on earth will we convince our citizens that the sacrifices they are being asked to make with respect to their personal freedoms are justified if government agencies in member states have mislaid massive data bases, as was the case in the united kingdom, or even published them on the internet, as was the case of tax records in italy? just these examples show why commission and council should listen to the libe committee, which postulates – amongst others – that processing of data revealing political opinions should be prohibited and that the framework decision should also apply to national data processing. only with these and additional safeguards proposed by parliament will citizens accept the collection of data. without this, we will have a european haystack of information with bits of straw blowing around in the wind and without any hope of finding the proverbial needle, that needle which is the key piece of information that prevents a terrorist atrocity.
mr president, a great deal has been said, so i shall not dwell on it. i would simply like to draw attention to a new fact: terrorism has introduced into our society a fact which, until now, did not exist. terrorism has empowered governments and taught states to be wary not of an outside invader but of all their citizens, and that is where the difficulty of governing lies. ensuring safety and respecting rights is no more difficult exercise. in this respect, i would say that the reports by mrs lefrançois and mrs roure constitute a very balanced synthesis of the progress needed to ensure the protection of citizens and the protection of their freedom. the two are not mutually exclusive. it is not in their traditions, and it is what they are now gradually learning to do; it is certainly an honour for the european parliament and this house to be able to show the balance in the search for progress in the two areas in question, namely the security of citizens and the security of their freedom. the framework decision, as amended by the two reports by mrs roure and mrs lefrançois, is the result of several years of work, and it is therefore extremely valuable. however, this is only a first step. governments need to learn how to work towards a balance of governing citizens and protecting their lives. in this respect, we will not be too much to help them to make the necessary decisions which they are not able to make on their own, in my view, nor to apply them within their national borders.
mr. chairman, please! terrorist attacks, such as the recent one in islamabad, make it clear that terrorism is a real and dangerous reality. the european union must therefore welcome any proposal to combat terrorism effectively, that is to say to ensure the security of the peoples of europe. on the one hand, the report we are discussing today goes against these objectives by attempting to reduce the phenomenon of terrorism at the stage of incitement, but on the other hand it refers to the rejected treaty of lisbon. the objectives indicated in the report, its justification are mutually exclusive. the fight against terrorism cannot be effectively fought without the erosion or limitation of certain civil rights. it's a price we have to pay, unfortunately. the european union has not yet taken steps to coordinate international action, pretending to fight terrorism in the virtual and verbal sphere. the commission has been asked to submit a report on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to submit a report on the situation in the middle east. it is to be hoped that this time, under the guise of defending fundamental rights, we will not go in the same direction.
mr. chairman, please! today we are discussing the shape of the council framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this is a very important case and it requires a thorough investigation. however, from the very beginning of the report, reference is made to the treaty of lisbon and the changes that its entry into force will bring. i remind you that the treaty is dead after the irish referendum, and it is not acceptable to use such manipulations. the amendments proposed by parliament in the report lead to even greater harmonisation than the commission proposes. i think we should leave it to the member states to define more precisely at national level, rather than having to decide everything in brussels, also in relation to the protection of personal data.
mr. chairman, please! the law doesn't define terrorism, but we all know what it is. thousands of europeans have been victimized by terrorists. we want a society free of the psychic contamination of terror. that's why we have to defend ourselves. we must defend ourselves against this phenomenon, but wisely and effectively. we must fight terrorism, but not by the retaliatory, albeit biblical, principle of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. we are a democratic society, we have written on the union's banner the values we believe in - these are fundamental rights, respect for human dignity, protection of privacy, including personal data. i therefore thank the rapporteurs for their work. i welcome the amendments proposed to the commission's proposals, but at the same time i would like to call for effective and harmonised action to protect all of us, but especially our children and young people, from terrorist propaganda and agitation. we need to protect the most vulnerable, the young, the open and the trusting, from the dangerous content that is being disseminated, both on the internet and through other media, often under the guise of freedom of speech. the word 'incitement' is a good word for such actions, but it is not enough to put them in a framework decision. we need to create such mechanisms, we need to create an effective european system and good procedures that will allow what we today define as a crime to be enforced wisely. without these tools, without a common policy on this matter, we will not achieve the success we so much want.
the debate on terrorism is becoming more and more topical, especially in light of the tragic events in pakistan and spain in recent days. the european union, which has set itself the objective of providing its citizens with a high level of security and justice, is now facing new challenges and threats due to the development of information and communication technologies, including the internet. the emergence of new terrorist methods, such as the creation of thousands of websites for terrorist propaganda, requires a strong response from the european union. i support the rapporteur, mrs lefrançois, in her view that it is crucial to establish an appropriate legal framework for cyberterrorism while protecting the fundamental freedoms and rights of european union citizens as guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights. in addition, i believe that all member states must ratify the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking mrs martine roure for her report on the protection of personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. there is no doubt that the adoption of a framework decision on the protection of personal data under the third pillar as soon as possible will serve the protection of personal data, privacy and fundamental rights of all citizens of the member states. the case is a priority for us socialists. not only because there are currently no adequate legal solutions in this area, but above all because of the importance for each of the citizens of the union. i believe that the legal act prepared earlier by the council contained too many loopholes. it guaranteed only minimal protection and was clearly inadequate. i therefore fully support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to the council's draft which we are not satisfied with, particularly those relating to the protection of data relating to the dna, health or sexual orientation of citizens. any personal data concerning such sensitive areas of a person's life as racial and ethnic origin, information on religious beliefs or worldviews, require special protection and should be processed only in exceptional circumstances strictly defined by law and with the consent of a court. it is also of great importance that the rapporteur has taken care to regulate the issue of data protection during further processing, transfer to third countries and transfer to private entities, as these are the stages where abuse most often occurs. we need a precise framework decision that will protect data at least as much as the 1995 directive and convention no 108 in the first pillar.
in writing. the issue of the growing threat to europe from terrorist activities is one of the most important challenges for the security of our continent. today we are threatened by political terrorism, by states that declare cooperation with us, by criminal groups, but it seems that the greatest threat to us is from islamic fundamentalism. i'm amazed at the recklessness of the rulers of europe. our total openness to unlimited immigration from islamic countries, which is supported by socialists and liberals, will bring a wave of tragedy to the community's society in the future. europe cannot be islamized without borders! let us help the poor countries, but let us not make our continent a place where the limits of our tolerance are tested. today, immigrants are demanding new rights, and the traditional population of europe is being asked to accept anything, including the destruction of a centuries-old tradition. this is dangerous. what this might lead to is the example of northern ireland, where only groups of different but christian faiths are fighting each other.
madam president, looking at our efficient voting time, i think i can make a short but justified remark. in the name of those who can, and do, read the results on the screen, i would like to express my gratitude for your efficient way of doing that. i hope that the other presidents – including mr pöttering, who is very efficient – will follow that example.
the attacks on the world trade center in 2001 brought the world's attention to the threat posed by organized terrorism. with access to modern technology, these groups have gained access to communication tools that were previously unheard of, and this, combined with the black markets in weapons, has made them the number one enemy of the democratic world. despite its determined efforts, the european union has not been able to avoid similar events. recognising the particular need to ensure the security of the citizens of the union, i would like to point out that the best way to combat organised terrorist groups is through transnational cooperation between the institutions responsible for security. the common foreign and security policy provides a good basis for such cooperation, and it is in the interest of all of us to develop it.
mountains are important areas of biodiversity, shelter for many animals, and home to unique plant species. they're often called water towers because they give rise to rivers. their landscape and ecological qualities are appreciated by tourists from all over the world. nevertheless, the lives of the people and the farming of these lands are not easy. in most mountain regions of the union we are witnessing processes of depopulation, a decline in the activity of the people living there, abandonment of agricultural activities. this is particularly true of less touristic and neglected rural areas. the problems are the great distance from cities, the difficult climatic conditions, the transportation difficulties, the higher production costs, the lack of access to all kinds of services, including even those such as education and health care. the regional disparities between the mountainous and the lowland areas are visible to the naked eye. therefore, there is an urgent need for special support for so-called mountain farmers who not only produce traditionally organic, healthy food, but also care about environmental protection, preservation of culture and tradition. the common agricultural policy should do more to support these regions and their people in meeting the challenges they face.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. financing development aid is not an easy task. it is not easy to explain to european taxpayers why their money is spent so far from their 'country of origin'. on the other hand, the need for aid, both to meet the millennium development goals (mdgs) and to fulfil previously made promises, is enormous. at european union level, the attitude of some countries is becoming a particular problem. some eu members (such as france and the united kingdom) have reduced their official development assistance (oda). it doesn't take much effort to imagine how discouraging this is for poorer countries or those where development aid is just beginning to emerge. we should also take a good look at the way auxiliary statistics are produced. each country would like to include as much of its spending as possible in the development aid category. and it leads to some pretty ridiculous situations. in my country, poland, the 2007 aid report was published last week. it turned out that the biggest beneficiary of polish aid was china. and it's not because they're the poorest country in the world. not because they've become a priority country for polish development aid. china has become the largest beneficiary of polish aid only because the development aid has been included in the export and trade agreement with that country.
in writing. − the european internal market is one of the most important achievements of the european integration process. only a well-functioning internal market guarantees competitive conditions for business and promotes the development of the european economy. the internal market scoreboard is a tool to monitor the progress in the implementation, proper transposition and correct application of the internal market directives. analysis of the data in the internal market scoreboard provides very interesting information on the work of member states in implementing eu legislation. it is a typically political tool, but it should not be treated as a marginal one, and should serve as an incentive for those responsible to transpose more quickly and correctly. this is particularly true for new member states whose transposition deficits often exceed the target set by heads of state or government. the internal market scoreboard should also be used more frequently in discussions on the state of the internal market. it is therefore necessary to develop a more accessible form of the scoreboard which could also be used by citizens interested in internal market issues. the rapporteur pointed out that, due to the smooth functioning of the internal market, some directives, such as the services directive, are more important than others. i share the rapporteur's view on this and therefore believe that the european commission should take into account indicators that better reflect the direct relevance of directives to businesses and citizens.
in writing. - two reports are being voted on today which seem to complement each other: the doris pack report on the bologna process and the maria badia and cutchet report on improving the quality of teacher education. both initiatives aim to make european education more competitive and thus to increase the potential and competitiveness of the european union as a whole. putting education first is a great thing, but it's easy to neglect. in many countries, we have all the basic sins of the teacher education system. there is a lack of incentive and motivation for the best graduates to choose the teaching profession, the status of teachers (especially at primary and secondary level) is simply low, teachers are poorly paid and there is no investment in their development. the relationship between the quality of teacher education and the quality of teaching and, consequently, the level of knowledge of pupils is obvious. neglect in this area can have disastrous consequences, not only culturally but also economically. the recommendations made to the member states in the report seem to be sound: to recruit the best candidates, to improve the status, recognition and remuneration of teachers, to invest in training at all stages of the career, to exchange best practice between the 27 different education systems in the eu, to increase the empowerment of schools.
in writing. − a high level of teaching is an essential element of a high quality education, which should be a decisive factor in europe's long-term competitiveness and capacity to create new jobs. the commission's analysis shows that:• on-the-job training is compulsory in only 11 member states (austria, belgium, germany, estonia, finland, hungary, lithuania, latvia, romania, malta, united kingdom) • where on-the-job training exists, it usually lasts less than 20 hours per year and never exceeds five days per year,• only half of the countries in europe offer new teachers some form of systematic support in the first years of their work (e.g. introduction, training, pedagogical care). to prepare pupils adequately for life in eu society, teachers should be required to use newer teaching methods. improving the quality of teacher education can ensure that the eu has the highly qualified workforce needed to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
in writing. − the bologna process aims to create a european higher education area by the end of 2010. one of its aims is to make it easier for students to choose from a wide range of courses. the introduction of three cycles of education, the quality of education and the recognition of qualifications and periods of study are key to the functioning of the area. of course, the more balanced and better quality education in the different member states, the more attractive the european higher education area will be. it is therefore essential to support member states in their efforts to modernise and reform their higher education systems. access to high-quality education must be available to all european citizens, regardless of their nationality, country or place of birth. increasing student mobility is one of the expected outcomes of the bologna process. mobility has a positive impact not only on individuals who move, but also on higher education institutions. the exchange of ideas, the diversity, the learning from each other's experiences are all part of the academic experience. moreover, its social dimension must not be forgotten: mobility provides invaluable and rich experiences of scientific, cultural and social diversity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs doris pack on the bologna process and student mobility. it's a factual and good report. today, we still under-spend on research and academic education in the eu. the nine-year-old bologna idea (which now involves 46 countries) is to contribute to the creation of the european higher education area in 2010. the process is based on three priority areas of action. these are: the cycle of education (which comprises three stages: bachelor, master and doctorate), ensuring high quality of education and recognition of qualifications and periods of higher education. multi-faceted and coherent action is therefore needed in all member states, involving our universities. the ects credit systems should be clear, understandable and uniform. this will allow for the flexibility and mobility of young people in different academic centres and the much needed exchange of professors. although higher education is not a matter for the eu, we should seek close cooperation and coordination while preserving the independence of the member states in this area. we must also remember to ensure that all eu citizens have equal opportunities to access education at the highest possible level, which requires both organisational changes in the education system and the appropriate financial investment.
in writing. - ms doris pack deserves to be thanked for her contribution to the development and creative reflection on the bologna process, an initiative that allows european students to choose their own educational and career paths, regardless of national borders. this initiative, by strengthening the competitiveness of the european education system, enriches societies themselves through cultural and scientific penetration. of course, the content and quality of education at all levels is now the responsibility of the eu member states. much remains to be done in this regard. mobility and its promotion at european level, which is the main theme of mrs pack's report, is based, for example, in poland, on the outflow of valuable labour, which is often not recoverable. i agree with the report that the most important thing is student mobility, the creation of a system of incentives and facilities so that young people can take advantage of the offer of study wherever they want. however, it is particularly important to return to the country as a fully formed, educated person so that he can fulfil his potential in his country of origin. this is certainly a challenge for the new eu member states and i think that a prudent continuation of the bologna process is a step in that direction.
in writing. - a united europe is not just a common currency, the free movement of people, a common market for goods and services. it is also, or above all, the intellectual, cultural and social dimension of europe. the bologna process, an intergovernmental initiative launched less than a decade ago, is primarily designed to make it easier for students to choose the highest quality courses. one of the most important elements of the idea of creating a european higher education area is to increase student mobility and the quality of education, because it is these that create opportunities for personal, social and scientific development. i believe that action at both european level (the european parliament gives priority to mobility) and national level is important in order to improve the quality and attractiveness of education. it should be noted that higher education in the european union is not the responsibility of the commission of the european communities. the competence for the content and organisation of studies remains with the individual countries, which is why their role and that of the universities themselves is so important. they should emphasise the need to create european doctoral programmes, and seek to provide special support for students from disadvantaged social groups. dialogue and bilateral exchange of experience between enterprises and universities is also important, and higher education institutions should therefore strengthen cooperation with the private sector to find new effective mechanisms for co-financing student mobility.
in writing. − i am in favour of further protection of the economic interests in mineral water extraction sites, which have been guaranteed by the european parliament's directive on the extraction and marketing of natural mineral waters. the revenues generated by municipalities and enterprises, especially in the lesser poland voivodeship, make a significant contribution to the development of the region and its attractiveness as a health resort and tourist destination. it is worth noting that these are often agricultural areas with little income potential due to their mountainous and high-altitude location, but which conceal beneath their surface very valuable mineral waters and springs with medicinal properties.
in writing. − one of the main objectives of the european union's common policy on the area of freedom, security and justice is to ensure the security of 500 million citizens. to meet this challenge, the european union and its member states must confront modern terrorism. the most controversial point in the proposal to amend the council framework decision on combating terrorism is the requirement to introduce the concept of public incitement to commit terrorist offences. the line between free speech and breaking the law is very thin. we cannot allow a situation in which increased security leads to a reduction in the rights and freedoms of citizens. for this reason, i believe that it is essential to ensure the highest possible legal standard for the framework decision in question, in particular by clarifying the concept of public provocation to commit terrorist offences. the newly created instrument must be legally clear and harmonised so as to be an effective tool in the fight against terrorism, while ensuring a high level of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - the attacks in madrid and london have shown us how serious a problem terrorism is for the eu. 2008 has reaped a huge harvest, from the february 1 attack on a funeral in baghdad that killed 30 people to the september 20 attack on the marriott hotel in islamabad that killed over 60 people and injured over 250. in all, 49 terrorist attacks took place in 2008. for comparison, this is the same number of attacks as between 2002 and 2007 (inclusive). one of the most effective ways to combat terrorism is to eliminate its causes. i therefore believe that the european union should do everything possible to combat terrorism on a global scale, with respect for human rights. the eu should make europe safer by enabling its citizens to enjoy freedom, security and justice, which will depend to a large extent on the will of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of david hammerstein's report on the activities of the committee on petitions in the 2007 parliamentary year, as it clearly shows the positive effects of the committee's work. the committee itself, chaired by mr marcin libicki, has shown that it is very much needed. it provides union citizens with the opportunity to petition the member states for infringements of their civil rights by public authorities. the ep's rules of procedure (rule 191) state: 'every citizen of the eu ... or any person domiciled in a member state ... has the right to petition parliament, individually or jointly with other citizens or persons, on matters within the european union's sphere of activity which concern him or her directly'. i consider the availability of the epetition database to be a significant step forward in the work of this commission. this allows online access to all documents relating to each petition. it should also be noted that the number of petitions submitted electronically has increased significantly. last year, it was 42 percent. the committee on petitions cooperates well with the relevant commission departments and the european ombudsman, as well as with the relevant representatives of the member states and regional and local authorities, who provide the necessary clarifications. the fact that the commission visits the member states is very helpful in its work. the effectiveness of its work greatly enhances the good performance of secretariat staff.
madam president! we have mentioned examples of disasters known throughout europe. i come from poland, a country that recently celebrated the second anniversary of the death of dozens of people on the jan heweliusz ferry. safety is of the utmost importance. it's good that we're considering security in the package. it's a good package, it's good in numbers, it's got seven adjustments. the safety of people, ships, waters and, finally, the safety of trade should be and is reflected in this package. in this respect, i regard mr sterckx's report as particularly good, where i had the honour of being the substitute rapporteur. yes, we need to monitor the ships. mrs wortmann-kool is right that we must investigate the causes of potential disasters and prevent possible disasters. moreover, i think we should refer to the aviation situation in shipping, the study of near collision situations, because we can better understand the mechanisms and causes of hazards. i do not understand and cannot agree with the position of the member of parliament zīle, who spoke about special or specific treatment of small countries. after all, the size of a european union member state has little to do with the number of ships flying its flag.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. wood is a valuable building material, it's healthy, it's practical, it's maybe not fire-resistant enough, but it's increasingly in demand. in short, it is a sought-after and attractive commodity, and often a major export product. tropical trees, confined to a narrow geographical band, are all the more attractive and are traded, often illegally, to the detriment of the tree and the entire ecosystem. so we have a dilemma: on the one hand, we need wood, we need building materials, and on the other hand, we need to protect the rainforests. if exploitation gets out of good, sensible control, it will end not only in ecological disaster, but also in demographic disaster. without forests, there will be no other vegetation, no animals, and no people. international agreements are needed, but the awareness of sound timber management is probably the most important thing. if that reasoning fails, we will destroy an important part of nature that cannot be replaced. we'll be destroyers instead of wise hosts. in general, i am in favour of extending the agreement (with the possibility of continuing to improve it), which will, at least in part, regulate the free and fair trade in this wood and may also serve as a model for the exploitation of wood from other regions. from siberia, commissioner, which is very quiet today, from the amazon, which is a little more, and from other sensitive regions of the world.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the conclusion of an international tropical timber agreement is certainly a very significant step towards the protection of tropical forests and the civilization of trade in certain timber species. let's not let procedural issues cloud our primary objectives. maybe it's important to establish a legal basis, maybe it's important whether it's a consultation procedure or an agreement, but will it protect the rainforests and more? every day, thousands of acres of forest, not just tropical, are lost forever. the land that remains after them is swamped or desertified. deforestation will not prevent replanting, at least not anytime soon. poor countries in africa, the americas, and asia have no means to control, prevent, or manage over-exploitation of forests. this includes the siberian forests. we don't protect trees and we don't respect wood. the poorer the countries, the more. during the cultural revolution, china lost many square miles of forest. wood is used as a primary energy source. so that's why the international tropical timber organization has a huge role to play. keep in mind that technological advances, modern logging machines, and logging have accelerated the process, and cheaper, illegally harvested timber has become attractive to traders. any trade seals, obstructions, certificates of origin and controls will be a success. i hope that this agreement will be fulfilled as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! the existing international agreements on tropical dendroflora are clearly not sufficient. the genetic resources of tropical forests are being depleted at an alarming rate because of human over-exploitation. there are two reasons. the most interesting tropical wood species are constantly finding markets in wealthy countries. they're being more efficiently searched and cut. however, the possibilities for growing them in the farmed forest are limited due to the lack of nursery methods to grow them. seeds are usually non-dormant, i.e. unsuitable for storage and transport. they hatch right after they fall out of the tree. special studies are therefore needed on the seed, vegetative propagation and nursery management of these endangered species. the traders of this wood should be taxed for this very research. the second reason is the over-exploitation of tropical trees, including shrubs, by the local population, who need them for fuel, for cooking food. he can't stop this devastation without arranging for another fuel supply for this population.
despite its commitment to environmental protection, the united states seems to be blind to the growing problem of the loss of primary forests, which is mainly caused by deforestation for the tropical timber trade. so far, nearly 80 percent of the total area of these forests has been deforested. the union must increase financial assistance to producer countries to prevent illegal logging and promote sustainable forest management. certainly it is also a good idea to introduce wood certification on the european market. the commission notes that the union industry is not only a major importer of wood but also a major importer of wood products. the fight to preserve the remaining primary forests is in fact a fight for the future of future generations.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what is the point of the legislative work of our parliament and of the commission's proposals? it's about building authority among europeans, among people who are citizens of the member states of the european union. i firmly believe that the european commission and parliament should focus on those legislative tasks which are related to employment growth and which promote economic growth, because only in this way, by showing that the european union and its structures are close to the people, can we build the authority of the eu institutions, which have been so overwhelmed in the last few years. i believe that the priority today is not to ratify the treaty of lisbon, but to show the citizens of the union clearly that we want more jobs, that we care about the jobs that already exist. and it's also the case with cybercrime, which is a whole new challenge that many people are concerned about. i'm asking for the proper hierarchy when it comes to these priorities. i don't see the hierarchy.
mr. chairman, please! we talk a lot about the commission's strategy, the main aim of which is to bring the union closer to the citizen. we repeat this every year and this strategy, despite the commissioner's efforts, which i appreciate and for which i am deeply grateful, is not working. the union is no closer to the citizen. why isn't it? i still think the information policy is to blame. i looked at the information on europe and there is one valuable thing in this section presented by the commission, namely the launch of a social campaign on the social dimension of the charter of fundamental rights. that's a good point, but the rest is information not about what we do, but about the work and intentions of the european union. the citizen wants to know the outcome, not what the union intends or plans, but what it has done and what it is doing to the citizen. finally, i would like to ask the commission why mr ganley's campaign in ireland has had better results than the campaign by the irish government, by the european union, on the lisbon treaty. is there some mysterious power at work here, or did mr. ganley's funds decide this? maybe the commission will look into it.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the year 2009 is an election year, but this does not mean that the commission and parliament should have only an electoral programme, which is characteristically promising. what is extremely important for us is what we will do together until the middle of 2009 and in the second half of 2009. this is also what citizens want: clear and readable information. i would like to draw attention to one of these elements, which is the fundamental change that the european commission is to propose in october, namely a change in cohesion policy introducing a spatial dimension: territorial cohesion. the commission's announcement is in october, and we do not see any development of this subject in the 2009 programme, and we already know that this matter will generate a lot of interest as well as controversy. i would therefore like to point out that 2009 is a very important year for cohesion policy, and in particular for territorial cohesion and integrated actions, and i hope that we will receive more information.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate. i think it reflects very well the full spectrum of issues that the european union deals with, from sports – a budget line for sports – to how we label medicines, to what we do in the caucasus, or how we try to help the situation in the middle east. we do all these things at the same time. it also represents the ultimate challenge from a communication point of view. we have also heard some very detailed proposals here today. i want to assure you that the role of the commission is to make sure that we can balance all of these interests, because the commission cannot be seen as representing only one interest or only one stakeholder or only one issue. we have to cover this whole spectrum of political challenges. sometimes we can choose the issues, others are chosen for us, and i think that, even if some people say that they had warned of the financial crisis, nobody knew exactly when it would occur or the full consequences of this financial crisis. so we have to deal with that as well. we have to be able to respond. the way we do it, of course, is that we are the guardians of the treaties, and that also sometimes restricts our capabilities or our capacities to act. we cannot suddenly make up new competences or enter into areas where we know that it is actually sometimes the member states that have the competences, or we are at least limited in what we can propose, or we have to work together with the other institutions. that is what forms the framework for whatever we do. when we met last time in a small seminar – and this is the message i want to pass on to parliament as well – we said first of all that we will stay on message. we will not change our overall objectives of prosperity, solidarity and security. these will still guide everything we do, and prosperity means defending growth and jobs in europe. nobody should doubt our determination to continue to fight for growth and jobs in europe. this has been even further reinforced by recent events and the financial crisis. it is all the more important that we have a very forceful policy and that we are careful about what we do right now. i do not think that anybody is ignorant of the fact that this is one of our major priorities, has been from the very beginning, and will continue to be one of our most important priorities. on the topic of solidarity, this is about energy and climate change and about how we use the solidarity fund, because defence today is also defence against natural disasters or threats that we did not have, say, 10 or 20 years ago. now we need proper cooperation and defence against these things too. i do not like the doom-and-gloom atmosphere on energy and climate change. you know what, i think we have an enormous opportunity in europe. i think we have the know-how, we have the technology, we have the resources, we have the people, we have hope for the future and, even if there is a cost to it all, i think we can do it and it will actually bring something very positive to europe. it will bring a better quality of life and i think it offers new opportunities also for creating jobs in europe. i think that we have to turn it around and not only see it as a cost, a burden, an effort, but actually as part of the future. this is a solution for the future, and it is europe that can take the lead, that can create innovation, jobs, creativity in europe. it will bring us a better quality of life, especially by bringing the future into the picture for once and also by bringing the rest of the world into the picture. we will also continue to deliver. concrete results are the most important for this commission. we will not be a caretaker commission. we will continue to present proposals to this parliament and to the council until the end. i thank you for all your concrete proposals and i would just like to respond to a few of them because i think, for example, the whole issue of consumer protection is a very important one, and we have a very ambitious project. we will present a proposal to undertake a complete review of the existing legislation on consumer protection, simplifying it and making it more accessible to all. we hope that parliament will be able to deal with this major proposal before the elections. we will also, before the end of the year, present a proposal to extend the possibility of action on the european globalisation adjustment fund, another important fund. we want to be able to also use this in the context of globalisation and to meet the effects of globalisation. since jan andersson also mentioned the whole social issue – and again it is the role of the commission to make sure that we balance all issues in which the social agenda plays an important part – the forum that the commission will be organising in november can, i hope, also look at questions about the functioning of the posting of workers directive and help us to decide on the way forward. we will not shy away from looking at these issues as well. we know by now how important they are and how they affected even the irish referendum. on that topic, mrs grabowska, you also know the saying that ‘the lie is already halfway to damascus while truth is putting its boots on’. i do not know exactly if this is the english expression, but you know the meaning. i think that this is part of it. if you are well-funded, if you can use and mobilise fear as well, this is very often more effective than maybe having to explain a treaty text that is not always that clear or that helps to simplify things. at the same time in this debate you have, however, given some of the best examples of why we need a new treaty, why that would help us to act and speak with one voice in the world and also be more effective in our decision-making, and why that would help citizens. we continue to deliver, for example, with the proposal yesterday on the telecoms package which will give lower prices to all those of us who use mobile phones and make sure that roaming charges go down. finally also on the budget review, i would like to say that this consultation process on an initial so-called reflection paper can help us from the end of november to propose a new way of constructing the budget. i think it will be an opportunity to look at the question about what europe is and how it should act over the coming years. that is only to comment on a few of the more detailed things that you have raised. all of this i will take back to the commission and it will feed into our discussions on the work programme. i have very much appreciated the full range of issues that have been mentioned here, and we will come back in a few weeks with a new proposal and present it in the full college. i also want to underline how important it is that we have a framework agreement that we also abide by and follow, and that we can agree on the way the institutions should work in an efficient, effective and democratic way together.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 24 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the eu-india summit (marseille, 29 september 2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. india is our strategic partner, both in trade and politics. they play a constructive role in the region. but it is time for the delhi government to hear some bitter words about the notorious violation of religious freedom in the country. according to the indian council of christians, every three days there are major and minor acts of aggression and intolerance against christians. people are being killed, churches are being demolished, the justice system is being extremely passive in these cases. we cannot agree to a law banning the adoption of christianity in some parts of india. we expect strong action, including in the area of compensation for damaged property owed to christian communities. commissioner, minister, i have to go. i would urge that all these issues be made very clear at the september india-eu summit.
mr. chairman, please! with its demographic potential and rapid economic growth, india, as the world's largest democracy, is a key partner for the european union and the western world. the union's relations with india have a sound foundation. despite many positive signs of india's development, the recent wave of persecution of christians in orissa and elsewhere should be welcomed with concern. local authorities have done nothing to protect their citizens from the attacks of fanatics. this is no coincidence, since some indian states have passed laws against conversion of hindus, and hindu extremist organizations are not legally barred from calling for the purge of india's christians. the democratic system that india prides itself on is one that respects the rights of ethnic and religious minorities. would the country that betrayed mahatma gandhi want to forget about it today? if so, we'll have to remind him of that at the next summit.
mr. chairman, please! to meet the challenges of the future, the european union must break with its policy of appeasement and concession. an example of this policy is the attitude towards russia and the argument because russia has energy resources. in today's rapidly changing world, the european union has a duty to play the role of guardian and promoter of rights and inalienable principles such as the human right to freedom and tolerance, the right of nations to self-determination. the test of acceptance and implementation of this doctrine will be the talks and contacts with india, the new world power. one of the fundamental issues that the european union should be addressing is the right to religious freedom for christians, and in particular for the catholic church, which is today persecuted and threatened with extermination. today, churches are burning and christians are dying in india, and yet it was europe that gave india mother teresa of calcutta - a saint who did good where it was most needed. this is a human, fundamental, ideological model for the european union in its relations with india, this is an example for india of how relations between people of different religions should be built.
mr. chairman, please! the foundation of europe is christianity, and we should appeal to these values. freedom of religion is one of the fundamental rights of the european union. this dimension should be clearly emphasised in the european union's relations with other countries. the persecution and attacks on christians and the desecration of churches in india are a cause for great concern. the authorities of this country have shown an inaction that indicates a tolerance for the increasing acts of terrorism. with the eu-india summit approaching, the talks should be conditional on a clear declaration from the indian authorities that they will take all possible action immediately to stop the persecution of christians and that those responsible will be punished. the european union cannot create any facilities, including trade, for countries where fundamental rights are violated with impunity. the european parliament should send a clear signal that it puts the defence of these values above the immediate economic interest.
mr. chairman, please! in the run-up to the eu-india summit, the prospects for intensifying cooperation, which, despite great progress, has so far been markedly weaker than in relations with china, should be considered. the union is india's most important economic partner, but there is still scope for strengthening the position of our companies in the dynamic sectors of the indian economy, such as energy, telecommunications and machinery. at the same time, let's not let the prospect of doing business in india blind us to the problems facing the people of this country - widespread poverty, poor health and education, the aids epidemic, the huge social contrasts - these are the most important of these problems. when we send politicians, financiers, goods or know-how to india, let's not forget about humanitarian aid or medicine, and above all respect for religious freedom in india.
president of the council. - mr president, thank you for this debate which has shown that we are committed to developing our partnership with india, because it is a power which contributes to international and regional stability, because it is, as has been said, the largest, most populous and most democratic country, and also because it is a country which is committed, despite the difficulties which have been highlighted, to cultural and religious pluralism. more specifically, in response to the concerns that have been expressed, notably by mr tannock, the fight against terrorism is a central element of the dialogue between the european union and india. as regards the terrorist violence in india, the union condemned all the attacks that india has suffered and we stand in solidarity with the victims of these attacks, which undermine india's multiethnic and multi-confessional character. several speakers rightly referred to the violence, persecution and abuse of the christian community in general and the christian community of orissa in particular. we are extremely vigilant in this respect and will of course make these observations at the summit with the indian authorities. but, as mrs gill said, we must have constructive criticism and we must also be sure to welcome the courageous attitude - this was emphasized by several speakers - of the indian prime minister who called these events a national disgrace and who did not stand by while three thousand police were still deployed to orissa. finally, we are gravely concerned about the attacks and violence being committed against various religious groups, especially the christian communities. the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with the rule of law and international standards, as we have said. on the question of regional stability, which was raised by mr menéndez del valle and mr berman in particular, at the request of the european union, the situation in burma is on the agenda of the summit. the european union wishes to convince all of burma's neighbours that their interest lies in democratic reforms and a peaceful transition in burma. we will discuss this with india and also with other countries. we also want greater stability and also that negotiations can be opened on the kashmir issue and relations between india and pakistan. the council shares this concern, and not only with regard to india, with regard to the social aspects that have been raised, and child labour, in particular, by mrs kallenbach. we are negotiating with the indian side an action plan to strengthen commitments in the area of corporate social responsibility, decent work and the fight against child labour, and we are including in the difficult negotiation of the trade and investment agreement provisions on fundamental labour rights in line with the standards of the international labour organisation. as i said, i share in part the view expressed by mrs gill, who seemed to me to be very balanced. we must stand in solidarity with the victims of all terrorist attacks, we must also condemn india when we feel that the measures against terrorist acts are not sufficient, but also support the indian authorities when they take the appropriate measures. as regards the comments made on nuclear cooperation, i would remind you that on 6 september last an agreement was reached by the nuclear suppliers group, whereby it was decided to grant a derogation allowing commercial relations with india in the civil nuclear field to be established under the control, with the agreement and in compliance with the conditions laid down by the international atomic energy agency, and i would also remind you that india has committed itself to extending its moratorium on nuclear tests and, finally, that civil and military programmes must be clearly separated. in conclusion, the european union - i would remind you - is the only one that is developing a rigorous dialogue with all the emerging countries and that applies the same human rights criteria to each of its partners, with the mandatory clause in every new agreement since 1995, with a requirement to respect international standards, whether it be the icc, the un conventions on political rights or the application of environmental social rights. this is true for all emerging countries, including our indian partners.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, let me almost in telegram form answer some of your detailed questions and add a couple of points. firstly, a piece of information that i think is important to all of you who are engaged in the issue of india- eu cooperation concerns the recent flooding in bihar state, where the european commission is providing assistance to the victims of this catastrophe. the commission mobilised eur 2 million for emergency relief to cover the most urgent needs of food, shelter, water, sanitation and medical support. this has been provided both to those displaced and those who remained in the affected villages. i thought it important for you to know that. there was a question on civil aviation. in principle, the signature of the horizontal agreement at the summit should be accompanied by the signature of the financing agreement on a new civil aviation cooperation programme covering eur 12.5 million. that is the highest amount of european community funding for aviation for any third country. i would just like to say a few words on climate change, because it is, of course, in our interests to engage india in the run-up to the post-kyoto regime. as you know, we take the view, contrary to india, that climate-change-related measures are not incompatible with economic development. on the contrary, they can help us and we urge india to also be proactive in the coming poznań conference to prepare post-kyoto and in the negotiations on an agreement in copenhagen. we have good reason to expect that a work programme on energy and climate change will be adopted at the summit, and this is an essential component of our cooperation with india. we are, of course, following very closely the communal violence in the state of orissa, which we deplore. we raised the issue of orissa at the last human rights dialogue in february, asking the authorities to prevent such violence. we also raised the issue with the india national human rights commission and the national minorities commission. we will also raise it at this summit on the basis of a report which has been requested from the heads of mission in delhi. finally, concerning our dialogue on india, i would like to say to mrs gill that the commission is prepared to inform parliament on the priorities set in the revised joint action plan. our external relations department holds regular meetings with all the services directly involved in indian affairs and a representative of the secretariat of the parliament is always invited to these meetings, but i think it is important to follow this up in a very practical way. thank you very much for this debate. we will of course take back to the commission all your detailed and well-informed views.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 24 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. ahead of the eu-india summit in marseille on 29 september, i would like to draw attention to the dramatic events - the wave of violence and the series of killings of christians in that country in august, specifically in orissa. as a european parliament, we should strongly condemn this kind of event. questions have also been raised about the police's behavior in the face of the massacre of religious minorities. i would like to express my deep regret and concern at the attacks on christians in orissa, and in particular in kandhamal district, and stress the need to provide immediate assistance and support to the victims.
in writing. india is an important partner for the european union. india's achievements are impressive - both politically and economically. relations between the union and india can be improved and mutually beneficial. but there seems to be a serious barrier to the development of india itself and our relations with each other. and i believe that one of the barriers that is limiting india's ability to do that is the caste system. the indian government must do everything possible to eliminate the negative and sometimes tragic effects of this system from public life. legislative action or political declarations are not enough in this case. it's important to really change social relations and inhuman traditions. it is not an easy task, and you cannot expect immediate results. the prospect of working longer hours should not discourage us. on the contrary, we should support india's efforts in this important task. i hope that the upcoming eu-india summit will help to weaken the caste system in india and improve standards of human and civil rights in the world's largest democracy.
mr. chairman, please! the vote on this resolution was accompanied by a scandalous rejection of the oral question, at the request of one of the leading human rights defenders and non-discrimination advocates, mr schulz. mr cohn-bendit, a well-known human rights defender, also joined in. meanwhile, we all know that there have been some gruesome, bloody events in india that have involved christians. i do not understand why the leading politicians of the european union, who dare to deny such an obvious conclusion in the report, dare to do so here in the european parliament, which is supposedly founded on the defence of human rights and the principle of non-discrimination. i think this case should give people and members of parliament a lot to think about.
in writing. − i voted in favour of adopting the report on the amendment of rule 121 of parliament's rules of procedure concerning the procedure before the european court of justice, as it is an expression of respect for the rule of law. the third paragraph of rule 121 provides that the president is to bring an action before the court of justice on parliament's behalf, as recommended by the committee responsible. that provision expressly relates only to actions brought before the court of justice. an extension of the scope of that provision, which would cover cases of a different kind pending before the court, cannot be applied in that case. it is only applied in the event of an action (for example, for the annulment of a legislative act) in the event of legal proceedings being initiated by parliament. in the interests of legal certainty and completeness, the rapporteur has rightly proposed that a new paragraph be added to rule 121 to confirm the established practice of the president of the european parliament submitting observations to the court of justice or appearing before it on the recommendation of the legal affairs committee. the proposed amendment establishes a procedure for dealing with disagreements between the chair and the committee responsible. this change will give the procedure in practice a democratic legal basis.
in writing. - i am disappointed that a matter as important to eu citizens as sis is being dealt with in a consultative manner, in which parliament is basically merely formulating its position, which is not binding on the council. the sis (schengen information system) is the symbol of 'a europe without borders' guaranteeing an area of freedom, security and justice within the eu. the sis has opened up the possibility of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the old eu member states, allowing the creation of a unique european database on persons and objects. this is crucial for issuing visas and residence permits. the entry of the new twelve into the eu has created the need to include them in the sis. only sis ii, as a new generation system covering all eu member states and allowing for the full collection of data (including biometric data and information on european arrest warrants), meets this need. the union now faces the delicate task of transporting all data to the new sis ii. it's a very necessary and complicated operation. that's why i'm asking for your attention and consideration. the data stored in the old system cannot escape or otherwise fall into the wrong hands. they must be secure, because the security of eu citizens and member states also depends on them.
in writing. − the adopted report on universal service and the rights of users of telecommunications services will help to improve the position of consumers in the electronic services market. universal service should provide users with access to public telephone service at a competitive price, guaranteeing national, international and emergency calls. the user rights will be increased by the measures adopted. he will have the right to change telecommunications operator while keeping his current telephone number, and more importantly, the transfer time should not be longer than one day. the maximum duration of contracts that a telecommunications undertaking may conclude with subscribers will also be limited to 24 months, but the operator should also provide the user with the possibility of concluding a contract for a maximum period of 12 months covering all services and terminal equipment. the availability of the 112 emergency number should also be increased, which is particularly important in emergency situations. member states should ensure the full availability of publicly available telephone services in the event of a network failure resulting from a disaster or an act of force majeure. the emergency number for missing children, 116, which is currently operated on a voluntary basis in only seven european union countries, should also be disseminated.
in writing. - i very much welcomed the report on the amendments to the directives on telecommunications users' rights presented by mr malcolm harbour. it is a balanced document and aims to bring about a substantial improvement in the situation on the market for electronic services. it is good that the compromise amendments have been formulated and accepted by a large majority of members. despite the very large number of amendments, this allowed the whole report to be adopted. i believe that the changes in the directives represent a great opportunity to adapt the eu telecommunications legislation, which was established in the early 1990s, to the enormous changes in technology. it is also worth noting that we want to include mobile television and broadband internet as universal services. subscribers should be guaranteed the right to full information on any restrictions on access to lawful software. service providers must ensure network security, protect users' personal data and stem the tide of so-called spam. i think it is particularly important to recognise the needs of disabled people and older people who need to have easier access to telecommunications services. new equipment designs are also expected in this area. i am convinced that these measures will contribute to a significant reduction in the price of telecommunications services throughout the union. today, despite the schengen rules, we still face high costs of data transmission across the eu's internal borders.
in writing. − i have today supported the resolution on the international tropical timber agreement (itta) 2006 because i believe that promoting measures to address regional or global environmental problems at international level is actually one of the more useful areas of the european union's activities. i hope that we all agree that it is necessary to ensure the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of degraded forest areas.
in writing. - i voted against the european parliament's resolution on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2009. the commission's ambitious plans foresee further unnecessary harmonisation and directives for member states next year. i also strongly protest against the pressure on ireland and other member states to continue the process of ratification of the treaty of lisbon, which was rejected in the irish referendum, as expressed in paragraph 1 of the resolution.
mr president, this crisis has demonstrated that the global financial system is seriously flawed. first the supervisory agencies failed to prevent irresponsible behaviour by investors. we have seen the development of new financial instruments that are, however, not transparent enough and do not allow for proper risk assessment. secondly, owners and shareholders of financial institutions failed to supervise properly their own managers, who paid themselves exorbitant salaries and bonuses, and for what? for driving their companies into bankruptcy! we need urgent action at least in these two areas. we do not want a repetition of the american meltdown scenario in europe. we do not want in europe a situation in which chief executive officers of financial companies go away with tens of millions of dollars while taxpayers are left to pay their bills. we expect the commission to take serious action on this.
in writing. i would like to draw your attention to the following points: the us government and the federal reserve have so far committed nearly a trillion dollars to combat the effects of the financial crisis, and the subsequent proposals in the so-called paulson package, estimated to cost another 700-800 billion dollars, show that it can be compared to the great depression of 1929. 2.the reactions of the ecb, which has mobilised some usd 750 billion and the bank of england, which has mobilised some usd 80 billion to improve liquidity, also confirmed that the situation in european financial markets is considered serious. 3. all these developments indicate that a strong and determined state interventionism is returning to favor, and even the most liberal economists recognize the need for crisis-prevention regulation and are willing to accept the involvement of governments and international financial institutions in these processes. 4. the scale and extent of this crisis will have a negative impact on the course of real economic processes, which in the us economy means recession and therefore negative economic growth, and in europe a significant slowdown in economic growth. 5.in this context, it is necessary to strengthen financial supervisory institutions in all countries, and in particular in the eu, which would have stronger oversight of the activities of the most important banks, investment funds and insurance institutions. only such enhanced supervision can improve financial security and ensure financial stability in the future.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the various questions that everyone is asking, let me make three or four remarks. the first point concerns the rather erratic nature of prices: $ 10, then $ 140, recently $ 100, now $ 100. there is indeed a disconnect between the appreciation of the product itself and the financial market that operates on that product. nevertheless, in the long term, i think it is quite clear that speculators will still be able to play a part if we have the feeling that our growing global energy needs are not being met by a new energy mix that is less dependent on hydrocarbons. i note that in jeddah at the end of june, when commissioner piebalgs and i visited and all the producing and consuming countries were present, the common message was quite clear in this area. there was a clear expectation that the major consuming countries would have to make it clear that they are changing their energy mix, that they are practicing energy efficiency and that they are less dependent on hydrocarbons. the producing countries themselves agreed. i think that's the whole point of the climate-energy package that's going to be presented, that the 500 million european consumers are saying: we're going to go to more local, more autonomous energy, with a more direct link between producers and consumers. that said, in the very short term, it is clear that there are a number of regulatory problems, particularly with regard to the knowledge of commercial stocks and not just strategic stocks. the united states does it, japan does it. the commission has been asked to consider this. i believe that the commission will be presenting a proposal for greater transparency in the very near future at the end of october or the beginning of november. but a genuine energy self-sufficiency strategy and a change in the mix seem to us to be the most appropriate response in the medium and long term.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think these are very timely questions and this is a very important debate. the commission is now finalising the second strategic energy review, which is also based on the debates in this house. i expect that this second strategic energy review will be adopted in november, and it will particularly cover the issues that we have been addressing today. definitely there is a limit to what we can propose in the strategic energy review due to the lisbon treaty ratification, because there is an energy article that would give much more opportunity to streamline the response. but still we can do quite a lot. the commission shares the opinion that oil prices are likely to remain high in the medium and long term. the justification for this type of prognosis is volatility in daily markets. even if now, the oil price is usd 106 or usd 110 per barrel, which is much lower than it was some time ago, at usd 145, the daily volatility still makes the situation relatively difficult to predict, and it is definitely making a major, wide-ranging impact and deserves a response. while there is clearly a need for short-term action by member states to mitigate the impact on the most vulnerable households, the main policy response should aim at facilitating our transition towards clearly more sustainable ways of producing and consuming energy. in other words, to pursue our aim of becoming a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy. in order to do so it will be vital to take forward the commission’s proposals on climate and energy policy, following up on the political commitments of the european council. on the structural reforms. it is important to underline that we are facing an energy price increase, not only for oil: it also goes for coal, it also goes for gas and, as a result, it also has an impact on electricity prices. links between these prices are related by pricing structure: for example, gas contracts often use oil price benchmarks; gas-fired electricity generation is increasingly marginal and thus price-setting. so i think it is very important to address not only issues about oil prices but all the sectors. the situation clearly reinforces the need for encouraging competition throughout the whole energy sector. that is why, again, i would like to underline the importance of swiftly reaching an agreement on the third internal energy market package. europe can and must develop its own strengths to deal with the fast-changing global energy economy. a well-functioning, fully interconnected and competitive eu-wide internal market is a response. this will diminish european vulnerability to energy-supply disruption and facilitate our cooperation with energy producer and transit countries. solidarity between member states in crises will be enabled by european networks. on european energy oil stocks, we have now prepared legislation that will clearly address two things: one, that these oil stocks will be always available at moments of crisis and can be easily used; and second, it is issues of precedence addressed, it is transparency and reporting on a weekly basis on commercial stocks. in this respect, even though we are not the biggest oil consumer in the world, we are able to influence transparency in the market and diminish volatility and the level of speculation in the market. speculation is definitely an issue. we have done an analysis. the available evidence suggests that supply and demand are the main drivers of oil prices, and that these fundamentals are set to underpin high prices in the future. but, at the same time, we will continue our work on analysing what impact speculation has at a particular moment and whether there is really the ability to diminish volatility and have more supervision in the energy market. in any case, it is very clear that transparency in oil markets, both in terms of contracts and related financial instruments and fundamentals, is a must. i would also like to say that both commission and national competition authorities are acting against anti-competitive behaviour. this is a way in which we can pass the changes in oil prices to the consumers, because consumers use refined products. the commission will make additional efforts in this respect – we are following this issue – and a lot of competition authorities in member countries have already started investigations into the issue of how soon and how fast the oil price changes are being passed to the consumers. at the same time it is very clear that there are differences between different member countries, because there are different sourcing strategies for the companies concerned. also, in some countries there are biofuel blends that also influence the velocity of the possibility to change prices according to the oil price. nevertheless, it should be very clearly in the focus of attention in all anti-trust authorities. energy efficiency, renewables and diversification: it is very clear that our main lines are in our energy and climate policy, and it will be prominent in our strategic energy review. there is already a substantial european legal framework in place. in addition, there are many actions being pursued under the current energy efficiency action plan, including also legislative initiatives and studies. and there are also support actions, for example under the intelligent energy europe programme. regarding existing eu legislation, it is implementation that is very essential. the ambitious 2020 target for energy savings cannot be met without adequate transposition by member states. the commission is vigorously pursuing infringement procedures to ensure that member countries are really implementing their existing eu legisaltion. this year the commission also will adopt an energy efficiency package. this will include a communication with a comprehensive overview of the commission’s ambitions for energy effciency, as well as legislative and policy initiatives – in particular, prominent proposals for an ambitious recast of the directive on the energy performance of buildings; also for a modification of the energy labelling directive, to ensure more effective and dynamic labelling. needless to say, continued high energy prices further support the need for action in this area. and also we get clear involvement of the european investment bank in this area. the european council, when analysing the appropriate responses to the high oil price situation, underlines the importance of a sustainable and adequate tax framework. there is considerable scope for the eu and its member states to make more systematic and effective use of taxation to encourage energy savings. the commission intends to present proposals and recommendations on the cost-effective use of taxation and specific tax incentives, including reduced vat, to promote the demand and supply of energy-efficient goods and services. furthermore, in its review of the energy tax directive, the commission will look at how it can better support the eu’s energy and climate policy, encouraging energy efficiency and emission reductions. more widespread and systematic use of road pricing, in line with the principles of the commission’s ‘greening transport’ communication, would also encourage a shift to more energy-efficient transparency rules. on financing alternative energy technologies and research, let me draw your attention to the fact that we are in the process of preparing a communication on financing low-carbon technologies as a follow-up to the european strategic energy technology plan. the communication will analyse the resource needs for long-term research and development, large-scale demonstration projects and the early-stage commercialisation phase. we are considering measures that best use public investment to leverage additional private investment, such as the creation of a specific facility for large-scale demonstration projects. this could be built on existing instruments such as the risk sharing financing facility, a joint initiative of the commission and the european investment bank. the commission also encourages member states to use national resources, for example potential resources that could be raised through the auctioning of co2 allowances in the revised ets schemes. on energy security and foreign policy aspects, i come back to the idea that europe can and must reinforce its own strengths to deal with the fast-changing global energy economy. internal and external policy in energy work together. the stronger a common european energy market is, the stronger it will be towards external energy suppliers. we are pursuing diversification with countries like azerbaijan, turkmenistan, egypt, iraq, nigeria, but it is clear that we also encourage predictable relations with current suppliers like russia, and definitely we are looking very much at the possibility that norway could increase supply to the market, because it is very clear that the eu market is attractive for suppliers, and we should not be afraid that we will run out of gas, but we should really work for competitive supplies to the european market and not be in a situation where we could be blackmailed on prices. regarding the issue of assistance to oil-importing developing countries. given the strong impact of access and price of energy on development and global climate change, energy cooperation is increasingly important throughout our development assistance activities. it was a central theme of my joint visit with commissioner michel to the african union and a number of african countries earlier this month. we invest substantial resources in supporting movement of these countries, not only to eliminate energy poverty, but to power themselves with clean and new energy sources. on macroeconomic and social aspects, the increase in oil price levels certainly put a strain on consumers and certain sectors of the economy which face difficult adjustment processes. more immediately, most member countries have undertaken – or are currently considering – short-term measures in response to the recent surge in energy prices. in line with the european council conclusions, most of these policies focus on vulnerable households. some member states have also implemented or discussed temporary measures targeted at specific sectors. as high energy prices are expected to prevail in the long term, it is essential that the policy measures aim at facilitating the structural shift to more sustainable patterns of production, transport and consumption. this also points to the significance of flexible product and labour markets and the lisbon agenda, and to the importance of the transition towards a low-carbon and highly energy-efficient economy. but i believe there is clearly not one answer to these issues. still, the framework that we propose with the energy and climate change package and the internal energy market package is a backbone, because, the sooner it is adopted, the stronger we will be, and also there will be more competition and lower prices for consumers. at the same time we should be open and honest and say to the people: do not expect oil prices to come back to usd 20 per barrel. that means each of us also should change our behaviour, because part of the issue is also our behaviour, and i believe that we should really pay true attention in our everyday lives.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there are two different problems. firstly, the prices of oil and gas, which are mainly imported by the union, and secondly, the prices of electricity. as regards the first point, oil and gas prices may fall if producers of these raw materials, and not only consumers, are subject to the market. this is a matter for our joint eu negotiations with countries such as opec, russia and the countries of north africa. we also need to make significant improvements in energy efficiency and energy conservation. this is our most important duty and priority, and we've been talking about it for a long time. of course, we have to develop renewable energy, because it's our own non-imported raw materials. but that's not enough for us. so that leaves our coal and our nuclear power. and we can't deny any of these sources unless we want to drive up prices drastically. and that brings us to the second punch line: electricity. the price of electricity can be reduced by the decisive establishment of a common european energy market. the third energy package needs to be implemented quickly. we can also control electricity prices by introducing a sensible, moderate energy-climate package. this is particularly important for the electricity sector, where it is necessary to consider, in the emissions trading system directive, benchmarking or phase-in principles for this sector. i thank the commission for its efforts in this direction and the authors of the resolution for raising this issue.
president of the council. - mr president, here are three pieces of information. i really believe that the period of energy being produced somewhere and then transported and sold worldwide has brought us to territorial situations that are not for nothing in the global financial crisis, because there is useful rain and flooding. when there is too much rain in a place that cannot absorb it, we speak of floods and disasters, which are reflected in the succession of derivatives and the unrealistic management of these financial masses. energy is the issue of the century, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. i listened to mr goebbels earlier and was struck by the emotion of his questioning. i believe that we must not only reduce the need but locate it independently of the nature of the energy, which will also pose problems, as with coal, which is a localised tool, which will have to be taken into account. we must also locate, reduce and combat speculation. the opec-eu meeting a month and a half ago provided for significant investigative means, with specialists, to try to understand what else had happened in the short term in a number of markets. and then there's the long-term anticipation. the only answer to anticipation is to do what was decided in jeddah, namely that europe, each of the countries of europe and europe as a whole should move towards this energy efficiency and reduction of requirements. we are talking about a reduction of 6 to 9 billion and, if we follow this pattern, the forecasters will of course always be right. the question may arise, commissioner, of a more comprehensive action, of funding for a number of research points. we shall have occasion to discuss energy efficiency again.
member of the commission. − mr president, i really would like to reassure you that oil prices will go down. but i would like to draw attention to the issues that somehow we have underestimated. oil markets have ensured the physical delivery of oil, gas markets are delivering physical supplies of gas and coal markets deliver coal. that means that the interaction between financial markets and oil markets can work. in other words we do not need to question the market, but we need to change the way we produce and consume energy inside the european union. this is the real answer, because we cannot expect the market to become easier. there is growth. if growth is there, then there is more demand for energy resources, and none of the existing energy resources are in such quantities that we can say easy access is guaranteed. so for this we need a paradigm shift, we need to really invest in energy efficiency, renewables, research and development: a new investment. but for this we need money, coming from both private investors and public investors. so we should be able to do this only if there is a really functioning market. a really functioning market means that everybody pays the real price to cover not only the cost but also the interest on investment. what we need to concentrate on – and there is eu existing legislation on this – is public service obligations that apply to households or small and medium-sized enterprises that really need it. but we should not deviate from this course. i believe – and i have said it again and again – that the proposals made in the second package are crucial to making this change, and for this to be strengthened we will add a couple of elements in the second strategic energy review under the headings: infrastructure needs and diversification of energy supplies, external energy relations, oil and gas stocks and crisis mechanisms, energy efficiency and making the best use of the eu’s indigenous energy sources. we are on the right track. we do not need to deviate and believe that there is a magic solution that will bring prices down immediately. but, if we follow this path, we can really guarantee that already in this generation we will have efficient, affordable, clean energy. if we are slow in changing the energy sector, then not only will we suffer but also the next generations will suffer. so we are at this critical stage and, as the minister said, energy is this century’s main issue. it is a main issue, but the public perception is not always there. the belief is that we have this silver bullet which will change everything. we should continue on the path we have started with parliament, and i believe it is consistency that matters, and i very much hope that the proposed legal proposals will be adopted during this parliament. it is crucial: this is the best response to the rising oil prices.
in writing. – how appropriate that the european parliament is debating energy prices just as the summer ends. many of my constituents are already watching the thermometer with a real sense of dread. falling temperatures mean that they have to calculate whether they can justify switching on the oh-so-expensive heating. the day the bill for a household's gas or electricity is expected is anticipated with dread. it is not just the poorest families who have to make the decision of which essential purchases they will have to do without this autumn and winter in order to keep themselves warm. households with small children or elderly residents are especially hard hit. they have the most limited budgets and at the same time the greatest requirement for energy. any action taken which alleviates the burden of energy costs placed on the most venerable in society gets my wholehearted support. in the civilised heart of europe, in the 21st century a warm home cannot be treated as a luxury item.
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much welcome parliament’s report in response to the commission white paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues. in particular, allow me to congratulate mr alessandro foglietta on his excellent work. i am happy to note that parliament shares the commission’s view that the obesity epidemic can only be halted by means of an integrated approach and that parliament welcomes the commission’s white paper as an important step towards stemming the rise in obesity and overweight across europe. i also take note of parliament’s request for a number of further actions – including more regulatory measures – beyond those currently envisaged by the commission. the commission will, in 2010, hold a first review of achievements against the objectives set out in the white paper of 2007. if monitoring shows that progress is not adequate, further actions, including a possible regulatory approach, will of course need to be considered. with regard to the monitoring process, i wish to draw your attention to the important role being played by the world health organisation. we are working together in line with the conclusions of the who ministerial conference in istanbul, with a focus on monitoring actions in member states to implement both the commission’s white paper and the who strategy. finally, i wish to share with you today some of the most recent developments in the implementation of the strategy for europe on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues, which respond to some of the actions called for in your report. as you know, to strengthen actions at the european level the commission has to set up a high-level group focused on nutrition and physical-activity-related health issues. the group is ensuring the rapid exchange of ideas and practices between member states, with an overview of all government policies. looking at the engagement of the stakeholders to date, the pan-european organisations, members of the european platform on diet, physical activity and health, are currently implementing more than 200 commitments in key areas such as product reformulation, labelling and responsible advertising. monitoring is ongoing and annual reports are publicly available on the commission’s website. complementary to the eu platform, to date public-private partnerships between governments and the private sector are reported in 17 eu member states and i consider that this is going in the right direction. in july, the high-level group met with the european platform on diet, physical activity and health in order to discuss potential for synergies and partnerships, focusing in particular on salt reduction – the agreed initial priority for joint action with member states. this joint meeting was positive and i am certain that such gatherings involving both high-level officials from member states and platform members will increase the impact of actions taken both by government authorities and by platform members in the future. let me also draw your attention to the commission’s proposal last july to reserve eur 90 million every year for the purchase and distribution of free fruit and vegetables to schools. turning the tide on obesity is one of the most important public health challenges we are faced with in europe today. i am grateful for your continued support and look forward to continuing dialogue with parliament on how best to proceed so that the european union can play its role to the full in addressing this issue.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president! - what are you doing? overweight and obesity are a challenge to modern civilization, leading to many chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, stroke and some cancers. the fight against them should be a priority in the union's health policy. the strategy to combat this phenomenon should involve as many partners as possible, from local authorities, member states, the european commission and industry. but we should not forget about the consumers who make their own food choices. education campaigns and physical activity promotion seem to be the most appropriate approaches to enable consumers to make rational dietary choices with clear and readable information. i do not think that restrictions imposed on food producers themselves, for example in relation to advertising, have had the effect of reducing the number of people suffering from overweight. i would also like to draw attention to another aspect that has been somewhat overlooked in this discussion, namely the need for adequate training of healthcare workers, particularly in the field of diabetic care and diabetes treatment, as this issue remains somewhat neglected, especially in the new member states.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - mr president! - what are you doing? i feel like i'm kind of the target of this project. i support the solutions set out in the white paper. among the most effective treatments, they cite lifestyle changes, physical activity in all its forms, and preventive measures in the form of far-reaching recommendations for food manufacturers, consumers, advertisers, restaurant owners, food chains, and information campaigns. to achieve this, it is essential to coordinate all policy areas, the different levels of governance and the involvement of the private sector to tackle the problem together. we need to put a special emphasis on the measures that prevent childhood obesity. adults have the responsibility to teach young ones healthy eating habits, but sometimes we may not know for sure what is right and what is wrong. this is why it is so important to organise information campaigns targeted at parents so that they can provide their children with a balanced diet. programs that promote healthy eating and physical activity should also be directed at children and adolescents, because there is an obesity epidemic, of course, but there is also a craze, a rigidity, a pressure to lose weight. 80% of teenage girls by the age of 18 have lost weight at least once in their lives. the wrong kind of weight loss is bad for you. so just as young people need to be taught about the world, they need to be taught about proper nutrition, which results in a hunger for knowledge, and that hunger is most desirable. the implementation of the europe-wide 'fruit in schools' programme should also be ensured as soon as possible. the european commission has proposed only €90 million for this purpose. i think that should be multiplied so that every school will replace the ubiquitous vending machines with chips, candy bars, soda, with fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy. remember, the food your children eat will affect their health later in life.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. 3 million obese children, 22 million overweight children, over 50% of the european population is overweight or obese. obesity is a greater strain on the skeletal system and the associated risks, but also a metabolic disorder and the resulting propensity for diabetes, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, high cholesterol. the problem is caused by poor nutrition, sedentary lifestyle and avoidance of physical activity, which are accompanied by civilization burdens, such as stress. the social dimension of the problem requires decisive action, especially to protect children. the lack of role models and the lack of proper adult influence on a child's life-style is the result of eating sweets instead of wholesome meals, and of spending days in front of the tv or computer. the white paper on nutrition is a useful document in efforts to reduce obesity, especially in children. the choice of healthy products should be facilitated by a promotion and information policy aimed at children and, above all, their parents. we are particularly supportive of the 'fruit in schools' campaign.
mr. chairman, please! the document on health issues related to nutrition, obesity and overweight contains a number of important observations. the alarming prevalence of obesity is a reason to pay particular attention to the promotion of organic food, physical activity from an early age, sports and the harmful effects of subconsciously stimulating eating advertising. the document also promotes breastfeeding, improves the nutritional standards of school meals, provides fruit, and prohibits the sale of foods and beverages containing high fat, salt and sugar in schools. but there are other causes of obesity, and psychological and traumatic factors play a major role. a variety of mental disorders lead to eating disorders that are unconscious, such as bulimia and anorexia. not just the personal retardation, but the lack of respect for values, the prevalence of depression, the neuroses, make the biological automatism perpetuated by the ubiquitous presence of fast food available at every turn more important than conscious action. the disregard for ethical and moral principles, the disregard for the importance of fasting, can even hinder personal growth by making a person dependent on blood sugar and taste and sight. and in the email discussions and the corrections that have been reported, it's a little surprising that the importance of saturated fat is being overlooked, and that's increasing. the problem of the different effects of artificial trans acids from the others seems to be solved, since in the form of natural trans acids they are present in few products, especially in a small percentage in milk.
mr. chairman, please! according to who, over one billion people are overweight, and over three hundred million are obese. the situation in europe is even more dramatic. obesity has thus become not just a problem but an epidemic, with diabetes, hypertension, heart attacks, and certain cancers. the fight against overweight and obesity requires a comprehensive approach that includes the production of healthy food, nutrition, economic empowerment of the poorest, public awareness, scientific research, child nutrition, healthy lifestyles and active leisure. unfortunately, along with the well-known causes of obesity and overweight, new ones are being added because of greed and recklessness. a good example of this is the spread of genetically modified organisms, the destruction of biodiversity through their cultivation and breeding, and the denial of healthy food. for the sake of human well-being, development and health, and the protection of the environment, we must work together to make europe free of gmos, bearing in mind that healthy, natural food is the most effective means of combating diseases, including overweight and obesity.
mr. chairman, please! we're debating today the problem of the increasing number of obese people. at the same time, the committee on agriculture is debating the future of agricultural policy. both of these debates are in part about the same issue: the health of our society, and especially our youth. i sometimes get the impression that in some documents we lament health problems, while in others we promote gmos, cloning, importing food from regions where it is produced by methods far removed from natural ones. our negotiators in the wto want to open up even more to markets outside europe. let's ask ourselves, do we really care about our society, or do we just talk about it? most of the direct agricultural subsidies go to large agribusinesses producing highly chemical-laden food, not to family farms producing healthy food. the report is of course very necessary, but only if its main principles are implemented. i am very concerned about this, given the commission's current priorities.
mr. chairman, please! health issues related to nutrition, overweight and obesity are extremely topical and timely. not only europe, but the whole world is facing a huge challenge today, which is obesity and related diseases, directly and indirectly. the rate at which medical costs are rising is alarming. according to recent statistics, in the united states, where 60 percent of the population is overweight and one third is obese, health care costs more than 10 percent of the national budget, or $100 billion, each year. europe is slowly catching up with its neighbours in these unseemly rates. more and more children and adolescents are suffering from hypertension and diabetes, often as a result of poor diet and lack of physical activity. with the future of europe and its people in mind, we need to pay more attention to the problems raised in mr foglietti's report. only joint, decisive and rapid action can prevent the health catastrophe facing europe and the whole globalised world. the european parliament is currently dealing with a wide range of economic, social and environmental issues. but to be able to fully realize them, we must not forget that only healthy societies will be able to fully enjoy the goods that are given to them. it is necessary to take action not only to promote healthy lifestyles but also to introduce legislation which will oblige all member states to take more active action in the field of physical fitness, healthy eating and sport. it is, of course, up to the member states to take the specific measures and policies needed to combat this phenomenon.
mr. chairman, please! there are two types of eating disorders, namely anorexia, which is most often caused psychologically by modeling thin figures as more attractive (in extreme cases of this disorder death occurs, we know these cases, but, thank god, the trend is passing and the phenomenon is losing some of its strength). the second disorder is obesity, which can also be psychological: eating is seen as a stress-prevention, an escape from life's problems. but i think the most important thing here is nutrition. food producers and distributors bear much more of the blame, and this report is a much-needed warning. so-called fast food offered to school children on field trips, on the road, is a big risk, because it's education about eating. so you need proper education and food control. i think that our undertaking is a good one and i support this report.
in writing. overweight and obesity are a modern epidemic with health and even life-threatening consequences. diabetes, cardiovascular problems, high blood pressure, heart attacks, and certain cancers are just some of the dangers of being overweight and obese. it is therefore right that the ep is taking the initiative to combat overweight and obesity, that it is encouraging all those responsible for the health of eu citizens (at all levels of national and european administration) to do so. childhood obesity is especially dangerous. in europe, there are already 22 million overweight children, and the number is increasing. if we don't stop this trend, we will soon have a society that is even more obese, less healthy and definitely less productive. i therefore fully support this report and believe that it is time to join forces and launch a decisive and consistent fight against overweight and obesity, focusing on vulnerable groups such as children and the elderly, including especially lonely people and women. if we can convince the public that it's worthwhile to control our weight and fight obesity, if we can activate the mechanisms that promote healthy living, we can avoid many problems. after all, obesity prevention is not just a health or aesthetic issue, it's a problem that has cultural and social implications.
in writing. i welcome the report on health issues related to nutrition, overweight and obesity presented by mr alessandro foglietta. it is good that parliament is once again dealing with such an important issue as the promotion of healthy eating. it is worth noting that good nutrition is one of the 12 conditions for good health identified by the world health organization, and a healthy person is the foundation of a healthy society. in this context, it is important that food is safe. the recent cases of chinese milk poisoning for children show the seriousness of the issue. many diseases, including overweight and obesity, are the result of poor nutrition. obesity, defined as an excessive accumulation of body fat, increases the risk of heart disease, high blood pressure, atherosclerosis, diabetes, kidney stones, osteoporosis, and some cancers. in poland, overweight and obesity affect about 65% of people aged 35-65. childhood obesity is a social scourge affecting more than 22 million european children. here, the advertising of foods high in fat, sugar, and salt has a fatal effect. the concern for good quality and properly prepared food must be reflected in our families and schools, which should be encouraging young people to adopt healthy lifestyles. this style is also recreational and sporting.
in writing. overweight and obesity are problems that have recently become epidemic due to their negative effects on human health. according to the national health organization, more than 50 percent of the european population is overweight or obese. alarmingly, more than 5 million children are now obese, and 22 million are overweight. unfortunately, these numbers are growing at a surprising rate. obesity is a major cause of mortality and chronic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disorders, hypertension, heart attacks, and some types of cancer. the treatment of obesity is a huge cost burden, representing around 7% of national health budgets in the union and up to 6% of government health expenditure. to combat this problem, consumers in europe should have better access to information on the best food sources to choose the right diet. the labelling of food should be transparent and certain ingredients, e.g. artificial fatty acids together with trans isomers, should be excluded from use. also important television advertising affects the so-called short-term consumption habits of children between 2 and 11 years of age, which negatively affects the formation of eating habits. the fight against overweight, especially in children, should be a priority at international, european, national and local levels.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to draw attention to three points in this debate on behalf of the uen group. first, the european commission's proposals on changes to the vat treatment of financial and insurance services improve legal certainty both for economic operators providing these services and for the tax authorities in the individual member states. secondly, it is a positive solution, on the one hand, to require member states to give taxpayers the right to choose whether to tax financial and insurance services with vat, and, on the other hand, to leave it to the member states to decide on a number of specific solutions in this respect, which means decentralising tax powers and thus implementing the principle of subsidiarity. thirdly, there is a need to analyse on an ongoing basis the financial implications of the proposed solutions, in particular as regards the reduction in vat revenue in individual member states resulting from the increase in the level of deductions by economic operators, and the impact of those changes on the prices of financial and insurance services for consumers.
madam president! in response to the commission's 2005 recommendation on crossborder collective management of copyright, the european parliament, in its resolution last year, asked for a clear indication that the recommendation only applies to the sale of music recordings on the internet. we also called for appropriate stakeholder consultation to be carried out without delay and for a draft flexible framework directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights in relation to cross-border online music services to be submitted to parliament and the council. despite the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright in the information society, the management of copyright and related rights in relation to online music services remains a complex and problematic issue, mainly due to the lack of european licences. the commission is therefore of the opinion that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. the resulting uncertainty regarding the application of different licensing schemes leads to legal uncertainty and has adverse effects in particular for online broadcasting services. i therefore regret that the commission has not taken parliament's recommendations into account, limiting itself to monitoring and implementing the 2005 recommendation, which is absolutely no answer to the persistent problems in this sector. the commission's policy is reflected, inter alia, in the decision taken with regard to the international confederation of authors' and composers' unions: the commission's exclusion of any joint action by the unions, for example in proposing the creation of a transparent copyright system in europe, is tantamount to keeping power in the hands of oligopolies composed of large producers, which are linked by bilateral agreements with global contractors. we can expect that the result of this decision will be a further reduction in choice and the disappearance of small businesses from the market, to the detriment of cultural diversity.
member of the commission. − madam president, at my stage in life, i do not get very surprised too often, so i am not the least bit surprised at what goes on here in the european parliament and the views of some people. can i just say in all of this particular debate, let us just remember one small thing. the iascf and its underlying constituent body, the iasb, is an independent organisation. (inaudible interruption from the floor)i just want to put the facts on the table. they are totally independent but they have de facto become the accounts-standard-setting body for the globe because ifrs, which came out of the iasb, has now become the de facto worldwide accountancy standard. i have to point out that this is an independent body; since we in europe have adopted ifrs − a decision made before my time by the commission and to the satisfaction of the european parliament − we are the largest constituency that has ifrs today. this position may change as the world moves over more to ifrs. we might not then be the largest any more, but we certainly are the largest current user of ifrs. for some time, with the support of the european parliament, we have been endeavouring to improve the governance arrangements of the iascf trustees, noting that they are an independent organisation. we have made some progress in the past, and the ias recently announced that they were going to have a review of their own constitution. so we are availing ourselves of that opportunity to make our submission. we have no right to impose our view on the iascf − this is up to the independent trustees − but we are making it our submission to improve the governance arrangements. i would just point out this basic fact before everybody, as we might say in ireland, ‘loses the run of themselves’ in this particular area. that is the de facto and de jure situation. the ias trustees are intending to bring in their new governance arrangements, having considered all the submissions, in early october. the closing date for making our submission has actually passed by a few days. it was to be 20 september, and the date today is 24 september. we waited to submit our final result. we have been in informal consultations with them for some time, so they know, really, what we are going to propose, but we waited for parliament’s resolution for the courtesy of doing that. so we will have to submit our formal proposals in the next few days. it is entirely a matter for parliament as to what you want to do with this particular recommendation. mr gauzès has put forward a reasonable approach about taking a few extra days perhaps to work out a protocol about parliament’s participation in the process which i am endeavouring to set up. as regards the monitoring board idea, which we announced last november, it is not possible for everybody to be represented on the monitoring board. it will not be acceptable to the trustees of the iascf, and, if they say absolutely no, then that is that. so we proposed a kind of a way around this by having relevant people, relevant bodies, in this advisory group. i am not hung up on any particular strong views as to how it should be organised or who should be on it. i do not have any views about that. i only learned today that my services have not been in constant contact with relevant members here in the european parliament in the past month or so. this was news to me, because i thought my officials would have been keeping contact the whole time with the people here who take an interest in this particular subject, but i find out today that did not occur. in my former remarks, i said that i regretted this, and that i had given directions that it should not happen again; we want to cooperate. no more can i do. mr purvis, it is not as though parliament can delay until any time it likes − mid-october or beyond − but if i want the european commission to have a say, i have to submit our formal proposals regarding our ideas about governance to the iasf board forthwith. they will not agree with some of them. as mr john purvis says, he has been lobbied for the last two days by various actors in this particular scene as to what they want to achieve. from reading the resolution as it is drafted, there is one definite peculiarity about this, which i think should not go unnoticed, particularly by mrs berès who has long been an advocate of greater governance and accountability of this particular iasb body. the peculiarity of the resolution is that it would do exactly what the trustees actually want and reverse what we are trying to do in getting more governance. that is the peculiarity, but the matter of the resolution is entirely a matter for the european parliament, not a matter for me. i would just make that particular comment in passing, because there are people among the iasb trustees who are not too anxious to accommodate some of the more far-reaching governance arrangements that we are proposing for them. there will be a fair degree of resistance. we are reliant on the existing trustees to take account of our concerns and to improve these governance arrangements as we think fit. we are not in the position, because we only submit these things, to make demands and say it has to be like this, but we have had contacts and they know what we are going to propose. they are not happy with some of what we are going to propose. i am aware of that, but we are trying to get this improved governance. not that i am ever surprised by what happens in the political arena, as i have been well over 30 years in this field, but it will be ironic if, after we have got this far over the years in getting our way on two things – namely that the ifrs has become an international standard and that, now, as people here know, the united states is proposing that ifrs be available to us companies (something i predicted would happen about two years ago to the relevant members of the relevant parliament committee and was more or less laughed at that this would ever occur, and it has) – this body that has been demanding with us and pressing us to get increased governance and accountability from this particular body is, at this particular stage and according to some people, actually going to do quite the opposite. i just think it is a little bit ironic, but i hope i have explained this as best i can.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the social package (part two: crossborder healthcare).
acting president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, dear androula vassiliou, rapporteur, dear john bowis, co-rapporteurs, draftsmen of opinions, and honourable members, i thank the european parliament for agreeing to postpone our working session, which was originally scheduled for the beginning of this month. as you know, the french presidency attaches great importance to consultation and dialogue on legislative texts. i was very keen to have a first exchange of views with my fellow ministers at the informal meeting of ministers held on 8 and 9 september in angers, before coming to you to present, not the french position, of course, but the position of the council of 27 ministers of health. this first exchange of views, like the first work launched in the council's health group, will not allow me to answer all your questions on such a complex and rich subject, but certainly our meeting today will allow the commissioner responsible for health to explain the european commission's main choices and will allow me to share with you the first impressions of the council. the council welcomed the adoption of a directive on crossborder healthcare and patients' rights. it is not conceivable to let the law be constructed in this field by the case law of the court of justice of the european communities alone. in my mind, as in that of my colleagues, this reflection should not be interpreted as a criticism of the court, or even of the content of the judgments, which often bring great advances for patients. however, it is not desirable that the europe of health should not be built by the two co-legislators, that is, you and us, and through political dialogue and a democratic process. our common objective must be to build a legislative framework which can contribute to legal certainty. secondly, the delegations from the 27 countries were unanimous in angers in welcoming the quality of the work done in recent months and in acknowledging that they had been heard in the recent consultations. commissioner androula vassiliou was warmly thanked for this at the informal meeting of ministers. the slovenian presidency has certainly informed you of the council's serious reservations about the initial version of the text, the main outlines of which were presented to the epsco council on 19 december 2007. only a small minority of states had supported this version. this hostility was also widely echoed in your parliament, as was confirmed to me by the members of parliament whom i met during my preparatory consultations on the french presidency in strasbourg, brussels and paris. the political dialogue initiated by commissioner vassiliou on her arrival in office has undoubtedly provided a good basis for negotiation and the council welcomes this. thirdly, as regards the timetable, this proposal adopted by the college of commissioners on 2 july came too late for us to consider a first reading under our presidency, but we will push the negotiations in the council as far as possible, while engaging in a political dialogue with the european parliament. the public health group has already looked at the directive on several occasions. it meets again tomorrow to continue its article-by-article examination of the text. on this issue, as on our other political priorities, france will play the role of the presidential trio by working in good faith with the czech republic and sweden. i would remind you that the theme of a europe of health for the benefit of patients is a priority of our joint programme for the next 18 months. fourthly, as regards the scope of the draft directive, i know from having spoken to the members of the committee on the internal market when i was in paris last may that many of you regret the choice to limit this text to the mobility of patients alone and not to deal with the question of the mobility of professionals. as a member of the european parliament at the time of the vote on the report by evelyn gebhardt, and as someone who left parliament just a few days before the debate on the report by bernadette vergnaud, i can understand the logic of this demand. the exclusion of health services from the services directive in the internal market leaves a grey area which is not fully covered by the current proposal for a directive which only addresses patient mobility. it can even be said that the proposal for a directive has more to do with the desire to integrate and adapt the case law of the court of justice than with the exclusion of health services from the services directive and thus the demand made by some members in favour of a specific sectoral instrument on health services. the health ministers did not discuss this. however, everything on this subject is linked to the timetable and the choice of the european commission can be explained by the need to respond as quickly as possible to the challenges that arise in the already vast field of patient mobility. it is certain that a broader directive including the mobility of professionals would have had no chance of being adopted before the elections next june. fifthly, as regards the content of the text, we have not yet dealt with all the provisions of the draft. however, at this stage the presidency can say that the council considers that the issue of prior authorization for hospital care is central to the member states of the european union. it could even be called the fundamental concern of health ministers. at the working lunch on this subject held in angers on 9 september, the ministers who spoke felt that there was a need to strike a better balance between the individual rights of patients to mobility and the maintenance of national regulatory and planning capacities for the benefit of all. this improved balance is reflected in particular in the reintroduction of prior authorisation for hospital care. the question is not to challenge the case law of the court of justice, which has clarified how the principles of free movement laid down by the treaty apply to health, but to incorporate into positive law the balance which the court has already established in its case law between the principle of free movement and the piloting capacity of the member states. it distinguished between outpatient care, for which the affiliation system cannot require prior authorisation, and hospital care, for which the requirement of prior authorisation appears to be a necessary and reasonable measure. in a context of strong budgetary constraints ageing, technical progress , member states must be able to retain full control of their care, in particular hospital planning. in particular, as the court itself acknowledges, such planning pursues the objective of ensuring sufficient and permanent access to a balanced range of quality hospital care on a national territory. it also contributes to the desire to control costs and to avoid, as far as possible, any waste of human, financial or technical resources. i would also point out that the framework for prior authorization ensures that the benefit of crossborder care is granted when medically justified. the regulation on the coordination of social security schemes already recognises this: authorisation cannot be refused if the same treatment is not available within a reasonable period of time. the protection of patients is also a matter for consideration, as prior authorisation ensures that the care they receive in another member state will be covered. finally, while we are committed to what we believe to be the correct interpretation of the court's case law, the directive would nevertheless bring a great deal of added value by clarifying the rights of patients, providing them with the necessary information and ensuring a uniform interpretation and thus a universal and consistent application of the case law in all the member states of the european union. i thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen, and i shall return to the floor at the end of this debate to answer your questions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have already had the opportunity to discuss this proposal at length with various stakeholders and players in the decision-making process. you may recall that i presented the proposal to the committee on the environment and public health upon its adoption by the college and had a fruitful exchange of views. and i have also had the chance to exchange views with various national parliaments and, of course, the member states in the context of the recent informal health council in angers. it now gives me great pleasure to have this discussion, and i am looking forward to it with you, the honourable members, in plenary. i take this opportunity to thank mrs bachelot-narquin for the support and the chance she gave me to discuss this issue at length with the ministers. i would like to put the proposal on patients’ rights into context. following the numerous discussions of the european court of justice on the question of the inherent right of european citizens under the treaty to seek health care in the member state of their choice and following the specific request by the european council and the european parliament alike to present a proposal to regulate the right after the health-care-related provisions had been taken out – and quite rightly so – of the services directive proposal, the commission adopted the proposal on patients’ rights in cross-border health care on 2 july. it is without doubt the most important initiative on health of this present commission. its aim is to provide patients with better opportunities and access to health care, regardless of their place of residence while fully respecting national responsibilities over health-care organisation. it has three main objectives: first, to clarify the conditions under which patients will be entitled to seek cross-border health care and be reimbursed and to make it effective, if this is the best solution for their particular situation; second, to ensure high-quality and safe cross-border health care throughout europe; and, third, to foster european cooperation between health-care systems. it is based, as i said, on the court of justice jurisprudence. it is fully in line with the treaty, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, with the competences of the member states for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. the proposal is structured around three main areas. first, it clarifies and reaffirms the common principles of all eu health systems: universality, equity, access to good-quality health care, and solidarity. it recalls the overarching principle underlined by the treaty and the court that the member state on whose territory the health care is provided is fully responsible for setting the rules and ensuring compliance with these common principles. to help the member states translate this principle in more transparent terms, we have proposed to better clarify the objectives in terms of quality and safety standards for health care provided on their territory to patients from other member states. we also introduced a provision so as to ensure that patients from other member states shall enjoy equal treatment with the nationals of the member state of treatment. second, the directive clarifies the entitlements of patients and related conditions to receive health care in another member state. for instance, for people in border regions, it may be easier to seek health care abroad rather than travelling long distances to the nearest relevant domestic health facility. the added value of cross-border health care is also evident for people seeking highly specialised treatment, which only a very limited number of practitioners in europe can provide. this might be the case, for example, for rare diseases. the reality, however, is that most patients are simply unaware that they have the right to seek health care in another eu country, and that they are entitled to reimbursement for such treatment. and, even if they are aware of this right, the rules and procedures are often far from clear. this is what we aim to clarify with this new directive: patients will all get the same clear information and guarantees on cross-border health care. in practice, as long as the treatment is covered under their national health-care system, patients will be allowed to receive that treatment abroad and be reimbursed up to the cost of the same or similar treatment at home. we are also clarifying that, under specified circumstances, member states are entitled to introduce limits on the reimbursement or payment of hospital health care obtained abroad through prior authorisation, if there is a clear risk – even potential – of undermining the national health system. in addition to this, the directive clarifies the definitions of hospital and non-hospital care and in that way simplifies the procedures and conditions to access cross-border health care. in such a context, i would like to stress that we have maintained the possibility to expand the concept of ‘hospital care’ to some health care which does not necessarily require hospitalisation, but which is by nature costly or needs a heavy infrastructure to be properly delivered. third, the directive establishes a new framework for european cooperation in areas that we have identified as key areas for the future and where we must act together at eu level to better meet the challenges ahead of us. this is done in line with the principles i mentioned earlier through streamlined and improved cooperation, through common technical guidance and through a systematic search for best practices. this framework will provide for developing enhanced future collaboration at european level in areas such as european reference networks, with a view to pooling together expertise, knowledge and medical skills, both for applied medical research and for diagnosis and treatment. in particular, this will be very important in the field of rare diseases, the provision of new therapies, as well as the rapid spread of new health technologies. the second area is health-technology assessment, whereby the most efficient therapies will be identified at eu level by the best experts from the member states, and spread in order to promote their use. indeed, as regards new therapies and their high costs, the resources available being limited, we must ensure that they will be chosen and used in the most efficient possible way. the third area is e-health, where it is time to promote technical requirements to ensure interoperability at all levels and help to establish – at least – e-health as an integral part of health-care services of tomorrow. fourthly, there is a need for a wider approach at eu level on the collection of health data related to cross-border health care in order to better monitor the effects of the proposed measures and enhance our epidemiological surveillance. finally, there is the facilitation of the recognition of medical prescriptions in all member states. however, we must note that prescriptions issued in another member state will be reimbursed by the patient’s country of origin, only if the medicine is approved and eligible for reimbursement in his country of origin. let us also be clear that this initiative is not about harmonising health-care systems. it is not about changing roles in the management of health care. member states are responsible for deciding how to organise their respective systems, what benefits they provide to their citizens and what treatments and medicines they will pay for. this will remain the case. for now and for the future, what we want with this draft legislation is to grant patients the opportunities and information to access the safest, best-quality and most suitable treatment wherever that treatment is available in europe. more cooperation between health systems will also create more solidarity and more health-care availability. the aim of the proposed legislation is, indeed, to pave the way for better health care across europe. the directive is already being discussed, as was said by mrs bachelot-narquin, in the council, and i hope that the discussions will proceed swiftly in parliament as well and that ultimately they will bear fruit. (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wish we had had the opportunity to speak on this very subject at the last part-session when we discussed the two previous legislative proposals. but as the title of the american film says, "better late than never". we are glad that the commission's proposals are really moving in the direction of what the european parliament has been talking about, of putting a certain amount of pressure on the commission in this area. if europe is to be a europe without borders, it is certainly first and foremost in the field of health care. ensuring this for the citizens of our member states will be a real demonstration of what we are doing for european taxpayers and voters. because the average pole, but also the average hungarian, cypriot, englishman, italian is more interested than the lisbon treaty in whether he can be treated abroad during his holidays, or even go abroad specifically to use a highly specialized hospital. in conclusion, i believe that the measures we are discussing today can indeed increase the real health care for foreigners, but also increase the authority of the union as such, an authority that has been wasted recently on ideological debates and on imposing institutional solutions on citizens that they do not want.
mr. chairman, please! the main challenges facing us today in the field of health are improving the health of older people, addressing the treatment of diseases of old age due to the ageing of societies, ensuring universal access to appropriate health care, ensuring the financial stability of national health care systems, paying particular attention to access to health care for disabled people, children, the elderly, families affected by poverty, ensuring the rights of patients in cross-border health care, ensuring cross-border interoperability of electronic medical records, taking into account the protection of personal data, ensuring appropriate working conditions for healthcare professionals. the concrete actions proposed in the social package to meet these challenges, such as the preparation of a communication on meeting the needs of an ageing population or the preparation of a green paper on healthcare workers, give hope that we will not remain at the desired stage. i am pleased that so much attention has been paid to the problems of cross-border health care, which is so important in an age of increasing migration. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress that it is important from the point of view of the new member states that the possibility of imposing restrictions on the use of healthcare abroad be left to the national level, mainly because of the insufficient level of healthcare resources in these countries. it also appears necessary to apply the principle that a patient is entitled to reimbursement up to the amount that would have been paid if the patient had received healthcare in his own country until the development gap between the old and the new member states has been significantly reduced. finally, it is worth highlighting that the proposed solutions, in particular through the introduction of european reference networks and european networks for the evaluation of medical technologies, offer the opportunity to raise the standards of medical care and to make more efficient use of healthcare resources in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the aim of the social package should be to ensure universal and equal access to high-quality health services for all union citizens. to some extent, this can be achieved through appropriate regulation at eu level, but many problems stem from faulty and ineffective solutions at member state level. the commission should therefore encourage member states to reform their national healthcare systems, in particular by promoting good practice and effective funding. the free movement of medical personnel between member states is a prerequisite for effective healthcare. in this context, i must draw attention to the restrictions still in place on polish nurses and midwives working abroad. this is discrimination against polish workers, which is a clear violation of the principle of free movement of labour and equal treatment of citizens. i call on the commission to put an end to these discriminatory practices and to restore the right of polish nurses to practise their profession without restriction in the other countries of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the renewed social agenda aims, among other things, to facilitate mobility in a society of equality, where no barriers should stand in the way of anyone. the proposal for a directive on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare is a very important point. it is essential to function in today's mobile world, where citizens travel hundreds of kilometres to attend a specific meeting. that is why it is so important that every european should know that in the event of danger, someone will save his health and life without unnecessary regulations and other obstacles. it is necessary to make it clear to every citizen of the union that in order to have access to emergency medical care, he or she must hold a european health insurance card. patients must be made aware that in the event of danger they should be treated in the same way as nationals of the country in which they are currently receiving treatment. quality, efficiency, and most importantly, patient safety are what we should be most concerned about.
mr president, i have a genuine point of order with respect to the new rules of procedure. we have been told that, because debate has been curtailed, we can now put in more written statements over the single written statement we were able to do before the new rules came into effect. today i tried to submit two written statements, and the internet site will not allow it. so my voice in the debate for controlling energy has not been noted anywhere. can you make sure the technical problem is solved? the revised rules of procedure are not being adhered to.
mr. chairman, please! media pluralism is the diversity of content delivery and ownership of broadcasters. both of these aspects are at risk in the media market today. the increasing concentration of ownership of media companies competing in the market has led to a situation where information of social and cultural value is hard to find in the cluster of readily available and standardised news for everyone. it is difficult to predict what a deteriorating situation in this area may lead to, not just for an individual, but for society as a whole. the rapporteur rightly emphasised the role of the public media as a custodian of diversity of content with a mission to disseminate high-quality information. it also rightly postulates a model of coexistence of strong public media outside the competitive media market and private media companies whose aim is profit. the balance of these pillars should be unquestionable. the content of the report and, therefore, the intentions of the rapporteur appear to be clear and transparent. the compromise reached at the cultural affairs committee is a good one. in addition, the legal status of new content delivery options such as blogs or, more generally, messages created by officials should be clearly defined so that users who create them are aware of the rights and obligations arising from this and of any sanctions. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! we are facing a rapid increase in the price of energy today. this has a direct impact on the living standards of the eu population and on inflation. this means that instruments must be created to protect the european population from the effects of these increases. despite the recent decline in oil prices, i believe that we should pay more attention to mechanisms to ensure price stability. the commission has also proposed that the fuel market should be made more transparent so that it is less susceptible to speculation on world markets in the future. in the energy sector, we must, first, step up efforts to increase the role of renewable energy sources, including nuclear energy; second, introduce new coal-fired technologies; and third, implement a comprehensive energy efficiency programme.
in writing. - media pluralism is the diversity of content and ownership of broadcasters. both of these aspects are at risk in the media market today. the increasing concentration of ownership of media companies competing in the market has led to a situation where socially and culturally valuable information is hard to find in the clutter of readily available and standardised news for everyone. it is difficult to predict what a deteriorating health situation will do to individuals and to society as a whole. the rapporteur rightly emphasised the role of the public media as a custodian of diversity of content with a mission to disseminate high-quality information. it also rightly postulates a model of coexistence of strong public media outside the competitive media market and private media companies whose aim is profit. the balance of these pillars should be unquestionable. the content of the report and, therefore, the intentions of the rapporteur appear to be clear and transparent. the compromise reached at the cultural affairs committee is a good one. in addition, the legal status of new content delivery options such as blogs or, more generally, user-generated messages should be clearly defined so that users who create them are aware of the rights, obligations and possible penalties that arise from this. there will be news like this. the establishment of a code of ethics for these activities is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - in the resolution on media concentration and pluralism in the european union, meps, including myself, rightly advocated guaranteeing citizens more free access to a wide variety of media and freedom of expression. however, it should be noted that the resolution on internet blogs differs significantly from the original version of the report by marianne mikko and the committee on culture and education. it was intended to clarify the status of blogs and user-generated content sites in such a way that they would be subject to rules similar to those applicable to other publications. the resolution adopted calls for an open discussion on the status of blogs on the internet. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution. i believe that the internet, and in particular online blogs, play a significant role in promoting media pluralism and freedom of expression and as such should be free from any restrictions. point 25 of the report, in its previous wording, was, if misinterpreted, a threat to the freedom of expression of authors of this increasingly used medium. i firmly believe that any such attempts at regulation and control should be rejected by the european parliament in the future.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the resolution on media concentration and pluralism in the european union. i share the rapporteur's main point that the standards for protecting democracy and fundamental freedoms should be equalised. the media have a tremendous, ever-increasing influence today. the emergence of new media is a positive development. it increases the dynamism and diversity of the sector. i believe that there is therefore a need to create a monitoring and implementation system based on reliably and impartially defined indicators of media pluralism. we should defend media pluralism as an element of democracy and freedom, to guarantee all citizens of the european union access to free and diverse media. i also think it would be worthwhile to draw up a specific charter for media freedom, which would not only guarantee the social rights of publishers and journalists, but also guarantee freedom of expression.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. 50 years of experience of european schools, especially in dealing with multilingualism, cultural diversity and migration, makes one wonder whether this experience should not be used to spread this model of schooling. it is not only the children of officials of the european institutions who need foreign language skills taught at the highest level and integration with their peers from other european countries. it is not only children who need special attention to their schoolwork when their parents go to work abroad. we don't discriminate against people. so why should any children other than the children of the officials be expelled from these schools? i would also like to draw attention to the need, which is being considered in the committee on culture and education, to restore the status of the greek and latin classics in schools throughout europe and to emphasize the teaching of latin and greek, also in european schools. i believe that it is necessary to give careful consideration to the principles of operation and the need to develop and reform european schools.
madam president! i am here not only as an mep but also as a trainee in european schools, as i am the father of a child who has been attending the european school in brussels for three years and graduated last year. from my family experience, and from what i have observed quite often, for example, in my interviews at one of the four european schools in brussels, i know what we are talking about today. i just wanted to say one thing: the number of these schools is growing. when my son went to this school three years ago, there were three schools in brussels, now there are four. the maximum number of pupils in a classroom at a european school is 32. it is worth noting that in many european countries the number of children allowed in classrooms is much lower than in european schools. our interest in this subject is obvious: we must be interested in something that we, as the european union, are giving money to. over 50% of the budget of these schools is european union funds. the conclusion, madam president, is that the spread of these schools is right, but it cannot be at the expense of the quality of teaching and the over-crowding of children and young people in these schools.
madam president! the concept of the 'european school' is becoming increasingly popular. it's the effect of globalization that's reaching everywhere, including education. so we have a theme, which we try to fill in with content. that's where the problem starts. the question of what kind of school it is is very difficult to answer. is it to be an elite, universal school, imposing its form and curriculum on everyone, or a school that accepts certain trends, taking into account national and regional traditions, a school where one learns to know and respect one's own traditions, culture, history, religion and language and to be open to the culture of other nations through multilingualism and learning about the world? there is one thing that is beyond question. if there is a european union, then the diplomas of all schools in the member states should be recognized.
madam president, a human being takes about one third of his or her life to get ready for mature life through education. the second observation that i want to make is that the construction of the european union – what we are doing right now – also requires an adequate education. there are many technical aspects, like equipment, diplomas and so on, but the commission, as executor, needs to uphold the idea of education based on more languages, on common principles and on respect for national values. this is very crucial. education obviously requires the investment of money, but if you do not support making this investment, then you will have to accept ignorance, which i think will be more costly for us. so the european school is an admirable project, and i support it.
madam president! the european schools exist by virtue of a convention signed in 1957. over the last 50 years, europe has seen many changes: successive enlargements, more institutions and agencies, much more flexible employment contracts. there is no doubt that the model of the european school system also needs to be changed and reformed. there are a few important things that need to be changed. the issue that intrigues me most is the selection of students, which is the division into categories: first, second or third. on the one hand, the union is seeking to increase the mobility of european citizens in the labour market and to remove barriers, while on the other it is blocking access to school for the children of potential employees of various institutions and companies throughout the union. a solution to the problem of overcrowding in some schools should be developed. action should also be taken on pupils requiring special care. finally, i would like to call for the possibility of establishing european schools in the new member states to be explored.
madam president! the educational philosophy of european schools and the curriculum leading to the european baccalaureate should serve as a model of multilingual and multicultural education for all member states. the increasing exchange of students between european universities and the globalisation of the world economy mean that the real value of the european baccalaureate justifies its dissemination and full recognition by higher education institutions in the member states, but also in third countries. unfortunately, this cannot be achieved without a substantial increase in funding. in the current situation, european schools are seen as too elitist, often excluding children who are not children of eu officials. the exclusion of a large part of society from the use of european schools is contrary to the objective of increasing the mobility of european citizens in our labour market. often member states themselves try to create a new education system that better prepares young people for the challenges of globalisation and a flexible labour market, but the european schools system combined with the european baccalaureate has been around for a long time and, most importantly, has worked very well, so let's replicate it as often as possible.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the message to the commission and the council is this: in the midst of this financial crisis, let us not forget the follow-up to the extraordinary council meeting of 1 september, and in particular the question of georgia and belarus. georgia lost the war but should win the peace, and we have to do our utmost to make this happen. it means two things: helping georgia with strong financial support for reconstruction and helping to consolidate democratic reforms. the european union was faster and more efficient than our american friends in handling the caucasian crisis, and our response was coherent and based on a common approach and thanks and congratulations to the french presidency for that. we have to take into account the impact of the georgian crisis on the whole region and on the european union itself. it is more necessary than ever to set up our relations with eastern neighbours, namely through eastern partnership at a higher level. we need a strong democratic georgia, as georgia needs us. there is also our common european interest, and i mean here energy security and the availability of a caucasian corridor for alternative transit of oil and gas. we expect the commission and the council to ensure the protection of existing pipelines and to develop further the dramatically lacking common foreign policy on energy. now on belarus: the situation there is slightly improving and there are the first signs of liberalisation. elections were not democratic. we need to respond with a new policy to end the isolation of belarus, but with a measured opening, based on strict conditionality and a gradual give-and-take approach. that means the following elements: selective application of european neighbourhood policies and human rights instruments, selective suspension of visa sanctions for officials, lowering by half the cost of entry visas for belarusian citizens, re-establishment of political dialogue, support for opening more economic cooperation with the european union, protection of civil society, ngos, national minorities and free media, and all that in close consultation with those representing the democratic position in belarus.
madam president! the main challenge facing europe today is certainly the economic crisis. contrary to recent assurances by german politicians and european commission officials, this crisis is clearly coming to europe. the question is not if it will arrive, but when it will arrive. the self-styled leaders of several of the largest countries in the european union last saturday failed to agree on any common tactics in this regard. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the bank's credit rating is not in line with the credit rating of the banks. if the next eu summit fails to develop a common strategy in this area, it will send a very bad signal to the citizens of the eu member states. because it is in times of crisis that the people of the union need to be made aware that the union is a firefighter when needed, that it is not only present when there is prosperity, but also when there is a problem.
madam president! just as the situation in the caucasus this summer revealed the new geopolitical challenge facing the european union, the current crisis in the global financial markets shows the global economic challenge facing the european union. all agree that we must now build a coordinated european response to these challenges. but how can we do that without the lisbon treaty? it's not possible. that is why ratification of the lisbon treaty is a fundamental question of whether or not the european union should be a serious response to the current global order. president barroso spoke about the fact that the eu institutions, including the european commission, are not properly represented in the global financial architecture. this is further evidence of the need to ratify the treaty of lisbon as soon as possible in those countries which have not yet done so. the second thing i want to talk about today is the market, yes, but the market is regulated. a capitalist economy that thinks about the human factor. this is a very basic question. after all, that was europe's response to the crisis of the early 20th century. europe has built its strength on this. the last thing is to save the shipbuilding industry in poland. i now turn to the european commission: why do we need an extra 100,000 unemployed at this moment in the current crisis?
madam president! overcoming the financial crisis is the most important thing today, but the financial crisis threatens above all to slow down the economy. you cannot just deal with finance, because in the end it is always about the competitiveness of the economy, growth, jobs. the adoption of the wrong legislative solutions in the climate and energy package could undermine the negotiations to exit the financial crisis. we want to achieve a basic principle of a 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. the president of the council, minister jouyet, spoke of the flexibility of the climate and energy package, of the balance that must be maintained when it is adopted. what does that mean, "i'm not"? that should mean the ability to adapt the package, and particularly the emissions trading system, to the current situation, which is completely different from a year ago, six months ago, or even two months ago. the same objective of reducing emissions can be achieved by different methods. we know the results of the vote on the emissions trading directive, which took place yesterday in the european parliament in the envi committee. we'll take that under advisement. we now have a very difficult trialogue, because the regulation is adopted here with many reservations. we have not had enough time in parliament to discuss all the problems of the emissions directive and the emissions trading directive. i therefore ask the french presidency and the european commission to take into account the minority proposals and amendments, even though some of them were rejected by a majority vote in the committees of the european parliament. if we want to find a good solution, we must be guided today by common sense and a situation which is constantly changing and getting worse in terms of economic forecasts.
mr. chairman, please! in today's crisis, we are dealing with public aid for vulnerable sectors of the economy. germany's hypo is being bailed out by a 50 billion euro subsidy, the uk's bradford & bingley is being bailed out by another 35 billion, the fortis bailout is 11 billion euro. the european central bank, at the same time, pumped another 120 billion euros into bank deposits to save their liquidity. at the same time, commissioner neelie kroes is leading a political crisis in poland against the backdrop of the return of about half a billion, i stress half a billion euros of public aid to three polish shipyards. i am curious how the european commission intends to explain to the poles the situation where hundreds of billions of euros are going to banks in old europe, and half a billion euros of aid cannot be given to three shipyards that could go bankrupt as a result of the commission's actions. i suggest you keep this in mind when you decide on the next injection of money into the financial sector at the next council meeting.
in writing. we should not expect a single european council to solve the problems in financial markets. rather, the council's objective should be to look for ways to make european banking systems more secure. there is no doubt that the current involvement of national governments is desirable at this time, but it will not replace joint action at union level. what is particularly important today is to avoid the populist bidding of promises and to protect citizens from the extreme cynicism of some politicians. this cynicism is about promoting pessimism and calling on other politicians to do something. if the black prophecies come true, the cynics will say, "didn't we say?" if the worst-case scenario doesn't work, then the pseudo-saviors will say, "we wanted to be careful, in situations like this, it's better to let it go". today, cynics wipe their hands in joy at having found a trick that can't be lost. this joy is a sign of extreme irresponsibility and a denial of the basic values of democratic politics - a considerate concern for the common good. perhaps the greatest danger to europeans' pockets is that cynicism. it is also interesting that this false concern for the future of the citizens is expressed by those who are trying to block the new european treaty and do not want a common currency. i hope there are no false prophets at this council meeting. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! the main causes of the current collapse in the financial sector are the irresponsibility of financial institutions, poor risk management, bad lending and the admission of excessive debt without adequate collateral, which has resulted in a loss of liquidity. the whole surveillance system was ineffective, too. the current arrangements do not seem to be keeping pace with the dynamics of change in global finance. an update is therefore necessary to mitigate the potential impact of future crises. in view of the current difficult situation in financial markets, legislative work should be given the highest priority over the establishment of consistent and effective supervisory measures. at the same time, while recognising the fact that the financial markets are becoming more integrated and interdependent, the new european system must be as compatible as possible with the american, japanese or chinese systems.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to greet our friends in the gallery whom i have had the opportunity to meet. i know that you are all very concerned about the situation in belarus, as is shown by your resolution adopted last may and our recent exchange of views in the committee on foreign affairs on 16 september following the general affairs and external relations council. we had then stated that the council would be very attentive to the parliamentary elections in belarus, which took place on 28 september. the results are not encouraging. the office for democratic institutions and human rights has identified some positive developments, but the conduct of the elections has not been in line with the osce's obligations for democratic elections. we note that no representative of the opposition will sit in parliament. in the presidency statement, which was published on 30 september, we reiterated our concerns about democracy and human rights, and we continue to call on the belarusian authorities to cooperate fully with the international bureau for democratic institutions and human rights in order to comply with international democratic standards. the council continues to work on the strategy to be adopted with regard to belarus. we have a broad agreement among member states that the measures taken must reflect the actions of the authorities during the summer, in particular the release of the last political prisoners. we must also take into account the geopolitical situation created by the georgian conflict. we must also ensure that the positive trends which have been observed recently, such as the peaceful and non-interventionist conduct of the opposition demonstration following the elections, are maintained, but we must also ensure that the political opponents are treated fairly and are free to move about freely. we are currently discussing in the council the possible resumption of political contacts and the possible suspension of visa bans. it is of course selective, these discussions are ongoing. the belarusian foreign minister, mr martynov, was invited to a troika meeting on the sidelines of the council in luxembourg on 13 october. we shall take stock of the situation with him. it will be an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to progress in democracy and human rights. before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to greet mr protasiewicz, i did, mr milinkevich and mr kozulin, who are in the stands, and also assure them that the european union remains open to a gradual re-engagement with belarus, to strengthening ties with the administration and the population and that we will all continue to help belarusian civil society.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am speaking in this debate on behalf of my colleague benita ferrero-waldner. the situation in belarus is in a state of flux and calls for a measured and strategic response from the european union. at the present time we are faced with a complex reality. to begin with, it is very clear that we were disappointed with the parliamentary election on 28 september and the way it was conducted. the election did not match up to international standards or to our expectations. we are all agreed on this and i will not dwell on the subject. on the other hand, some progress was made before the election with the freeing of political prisoners and also in connection with the election, where belarus cooperated with the osce/odihr and its observers ahead of the elections. the freeing of the remaining political prisoners was regarded as an essential step not only by ourselves, but also by the opposition: this move reduced and eased the level of fear in civil society, where imprisonment on political grounds is no longer seen as a fact of life, even though the threat still exists. and yet, while at the time we welcomed the freeing of the political prisoners, we did not respond tangibly with positive measures, with the election just around the corner. but now we should not delay our response any longer. similarly, just as the freeing of the political prisoners was a decisive gesture, the cooperation of the belarusian authorities with the osce observers cannot be ignored, nor can the – albeit limited – access to the media for all the candidates be overlooked. these are major steps forward compared with the previous, presidential, elections in 2006. how do we now make sure that these steps forward are maintained and consolidated? how do we make sure that also in the future there are no political prisoners in belarus? how do we make sure that the osce/odihr can continue its cooperation with the belarusian authorities until the publication of its final report on the election in two months and, beyond this, follow up the report? what can be done to prevent any toughening of the rules applying to the media and to provide greater legal certainty for ngos to work in? i am here to listen to the parliament’s views. it is our belief that resuming the dialogue at political level with the authorities, without ceremony but with realism, is the response we must give belarus today. it is important that we can have contacts at the appropriate level, in order to make sure that our message gets across. i would add that generally speaking, whatever the exact details of our response, our line must be ‘gradual and proportional’. these two principles will guide the delivery of our response to belarus and will enable us to encourage the democratic development we all hope for. in the meantime, the commission will make available all its expertise in order to strengthen contacts with the belarusian administration in sectors of shared interest such as energy, environment, customs and transport. these contacts have demonstrated their worth by promoting the development of networks between persons and between administrations. in parallel we will stick doggedly to our support to civil society, helping belarusian ngos, promoting development of an independent press and the european humanities university in exile in vilnius. i promise to keep up our effort and to strengthen our links with civil society. in conclusion, belarus, a country at the heart of europe and a neighbour of three of our member states, is faced with a historic choice: either it takes the necessary steps towards democracy and real independence, or it resigns itself to stagnation and growing dependence on one country. it remains our wish to welcome belarus as a full partner in our european neighbourhood policy and the future eastern europe partnership. i therefore call for your support so that we can determine the right approach that will, at this crucial time for the stability of our continent, encourage belarus to make real progress towards democracy and respect for human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. the course of the elections in belarus, as well as the final result, clearly show that although alexander lukashenko is signaling a desire to develop relations with the european union, he nevertheless imagines that the dialogue is to be initiated and conducted on his terms and without any concessions on his part. however, it must be borne in mind that improving relations with the european union is not only in the objective interest of belarus, but also in the interest of lukashenko himself. the continued russian push to take control of key sectors of the belarusian economy could lead to a dependency on russia that would severely diminish lukashenka's hold on the country. the only way out is to involve western companies in the privatization program that has been forced by the state of the belarusian economy. only in this way will it be possible to free belarus from being bought up by politically controlled russian capital. the dialogue should therefore be launched, if only to create legal and political conditions in belarus that will encourage european union capital to invest in belarus. such dialogue must not, however, be an opportunity for the regime to gain credibility and legitimization. it must therefore be accompanied by appropriate actions on the part of belarus, which, even if only to a small but visible extent, will clearly show the direction of changes in the political system. any talks with representatives of the belarusian authorities, wherever they take place, should be counterbalanced by meetings at the same level of eu politicians with the main opposition representatives.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the policy of opening the door to belarus in haste was poorly prepared and carried out in an amateurish manner. declarations of a warming of relations began to flow from the european union and some member states before the lukashenka regime made any lasting move towards freedom. we did it on the promise. this lesson should teach us more precision for the future. yes, we can open up to belarus, but only if the government in minsk takes concrete steps towards freedom. western investment for more economic freedom. to engage in political dialogue for a tv channel or a newspaper for the opposition. eu support for a parliament that is at least partially free, with oppositionists who are chosen by society, not lukashenko. only such tactics - something for something - will preserve our credibility and bring a chance for belarus to democratize.
madam president! the elections held in belarus have already been summarised by the osce mission. they were not transparent, they were not fair, they were not democratic. however, the fact is that the political prisoners, at least the main ones, have been released. however, the reasons for their imprisonment were not removed. we have no certainty that either they (temporarily released) or the new prisoners in belarus will not be detained in the near future. we must ensure that causes, not just effects, are removed. it is also worth mentioning in this debate that there are still 14 people in belarus whose freedom has been restricted by being sentenced to either house arrest or forced labour for their activities in the field of human rights and freedom. our declaration is very balanced. on the one hand, he welcomes the release of the prisoners, on the other hand, he is dissatisfied with the conduct and outcome of the elections. at the same time, in paragraph 12, parliament agrees to a 'step by step' policy in further negotiations with belarus and says that it is possible to agree to a partial suspension of sanctions for a maximum period of six months, subject to very specific changes that would improve the situation, in particular, of media freedom in belarus. this is a good direction and i am a strong supporter of it, and at the same time i would like to appeal to both the french and the czech presidencies, which will take office in the first half of next year, that whenever there are official meetings with representatives of the belarusian authorities, there must also be time for meetings with representatives of the opposition. there must also be a will to reduce visa fees for belarusians, otherwise we will not bring this nation closer to europe. as a pole, i would like to express my appreciation to parliament for taking into account the fact that the activities of the polish minority in belarus are restricted by the belarusian authorities and that there is a legally elected authority that represents the poles under the leadership of mrs angelika borys.
madam president! today, the fate of belarus, a country of 10 million europeans, hangs in the balance. we can't just sit back and watch this happen. dictators like lukashenko only give in under pressure. the question is, which way will this retreat go? since russia holds the economic key to belarus' independence, its pressure could end up in the loss of sovereignty by belarus. union pressure can be effective provided that lukashenko has something to lose and the union has something to offer. he seemed to be accepting of change, but the last election was nothing short of a farce. the fear and stubbornness of the dictator may lead to the loss of sovereignty by belarus. lukashenko does not have to lose in the democratization of belarus, as he enjoys the great confidence of the public. but these must be real steps towards democracy, not a game of appearances, the price of which will be paid by the belarusian opposition. despite the risk of a black scenario, the union cannot accept this price. but let's not interrupt the dialogue, since the independence of this country is at stake. as mr milinkiewicz said today, the future of democracy in this country depends on its preservation of independence.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to welcome to the european parliament today the representatives of the belarusian opposition, mr milinkiewicz and mr kazulin. it is very difficult to define the european union's policy towards belarus at the moment. on the one hand, we are still dealing with an authoritarian state, and on the other hand, we are dealing with signs of a certain evolution and certain changes in this complex system of international situation. the european union's policy should now be directed entirely at the belarusian people. the question is, who loses the most from the sanctions? the lukashenka regime or the belarusian society? this is a question we must answer in the various institutions of the european union. there is no doubt that we should now try a policy that defines our objectives and brings about the effects of the european union's actions towards belarus.
in writing. lukashenko once again "played" the european union, which proved to be naive by not putting any preconditions on the regime. lukashenko has turned out to be a smarter politician than europe thought. the elections and the campaign showed that the eu strategy was poorly prepared. this should make the eu realize its naivety in its eastern policy. to begin with, europe needs concrete civil liberties actions from minsk to continue the process of opening up to belarus. it is crucial that the west sees this election as a farce, because it was not a free election. if this election is recognized, we will continue lukashenko's game with the west, in which only lukashenko will continue to benefit. all the time the media is not free and there is no freedom of assembly. for ten years, the mysterious disappearances of political activists have not been solved. releasing political prisoners doesn't change anything. after the election, there will be more persecution. the donald tusk government has shown absolutely nothing in terms of eastern policy so far. nothing concrete was negotiated with russia, georgia was pacified, ukraine is still moving away from europe, and belarus treated the envoy of our government like air. i think it would be worthwhile to clarify who is the author of this compromising eastern policy.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union is reviewing and adjusting its policy towards belarus. the policy of sanctions and isolation has not produced the desired results. it didn't change the repressive nature of the government. the new circumstance was the russian offensive in georgia, signaling a renewal of the kremlin's imperial ambitions. certainly noticed in minsk and other countries that russia considers its sphere of influence. the attempt to exploit this new situation through european union diplomacy seems justified, given the risks of dialogue with a dictator. this was done in coordination with the belarusian opposition. the parliamentary elections were an additional circumstance, as a test of goodwill on the part of president lukashenka. the eu's diplomatic efforts to reach a settlement with belarus have been unsuccessful, but it is still worth revising the policy towards belarus in the light of developments in the country. the aim remains the same: to bring this european country into the realm of democracy, a market economy and human rights! i am convinced that the preservation of belarus' independence is a necessary condition, because only then will the prospect of democratization of the country be realized. the alternative scenario i.e. the democratization of the country absorbed by the russian empire is a historical illusion.
on paper. the council and commission position and the european parliament resolution on the situation in belarus are intended to assess the results of the parliamentary elections held on 28 september and their impact on the european union's relations with belarus. the european union is in a complicated international situation. on the one hand, there is no doubt that belarus has not fulfilled its democratic obligations, and on the other hand, we are witnessing a gradual, albeit slow, 'drowning' of authoritarianism. some positive developments towards democratisation were observed during the elections, such as the release of political prisoners, the invitation of independent osce observers and the improvement of election observation conditions. however, the belarusian authorities have not fulfilled all their obligations. they should confirm their willingness to improve cooperation with the eu and create better conditions for dialogue with the union. they should take real action on a wider scale towards democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. i fully support the call by the commission and the council to review and possibly suspend part of the restrictive measures against belarus. you can't block the development of civil society. the union sanctions (in particular those related to visa procedures and the cost of obtaining visas) are directed against ordinary citizens and not against the state authorities.
madam president! i would like to draw the attention of the house to the situation of christians in vietnam. for 50 years, they have been forced to renounce their faith, dispossessed of their possessions, and resettled in other regions. recently, this persecution has been particularly pronounced in hanoi, where the authorities have brutally intervened against thai ha catholics protesting against the illegal seizure of their land by the redemptorist fathers. for example, on august 31, the procession was brutally beaten. more than 20 people were seriously injured and hospitalized. journalists were also killed, including ben stocking of the associated press. let us do everything we can to ensure that vietnam, which is now a member of the un security council, respects human rights.
madam president! in india, the number of christian martyrs who are cruelly murdered by hindu torturers continues to grow. the catholic church, so far unsuccessfully, has appealed to governments and international agencies in various parts of the world to help christians in india, iraq, and vietnam. unfortunately, the persecution of christians continues to be accompanied by the passivity not only of the representatives of the government and legal institutions, but also of other democratic governments and international institutions actively involved in other cases of human rights violations, including the european union. i would therefore like to protest in the european parliament against the european commission's ignoring of the human rights violations in india, iraq and vietnam and to call for diplomatic intervention and opposition to these barbaric acts. inaction in the face of persecution may be evidence of a certain discrimination against catholics.
madam president! the review of the common agricultural policy clearly identifies risks in different sectors of agriculture. there is a lot of talk about the need to reform the sugar market, the tobacco market, the fruit and vegetable market. the need to increase quotas, including milk quotas, and to release stocks for cereals is mentioned, but other problems, such as the problem of european beekeeping, are not mentioned. bees are dying in large numbers from a variety of diseases, the most well-known of which are varicose veins and hives. bees are also pollination issues, they are the guarantors of biodiversity for our existence and our survival in the natural world. and that's why i wanted to bring this up today, because we usually think of bees in terms of honey, propolis, wax. if it were not for mrs lulling's resolution, we would certainly have passed over the problems of beekeeping in the european parliament with indifference. an urgent programme is needed to save bees and beekeeping in the european union.
madam president! in india, the persecution of christians continues. people are still being killed because of their religion - just because they are christians. catholic churches are being destroyed. violence is even used against the helpless nuns who minister to the poor. the government of india is not taking effective action to guarantee human rights in the country, in particular the right to life and the right to freedom of religion. the european union, which has built its political phraseology and its institutions on human rights, has so far not responded seriously to the rights of christians murdered in india. at the india-eu summit, no pressure was put on india to stop the martyrdom of the followers of christ. the european parliament is holding an extraordinary conference on human rights to mark the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. did the opening speakers speak of the rights of persecuted christians today, not just in india? so the question is: is the eu and its leaders serious about the doctrine of human rights? do they apply it to all people? is there a double standard? is the preaching of human rights to protect all minorities, including sexual minorities, but not to defend the rights of people murdered for their christian faith? europe, wake up! what are you doing?
madam president! the european union is committed to employment growth and a high level of social protection. however, the commission's approach to the polish yards contrasts with these statements. in the european union, public aid can be used to help failing banks, and it can be used without hindrance in the former communist countries of germany. where is the equal treatment of economic operators? the shipyards in the so-called "old union" had been receiving aid for many years and everything was fine. the new member states, which should have the chance to catch up economically with the rest of the community, are treated by the commission as catch-all territory. i am convinced that the polish voters in the upcoming european parliament elections will oppose such european solidarity by voting.
madam president! the european union has made major changes to its common agricultural policy. this reform has had the effect of reducing agricultural production. this is particularly evident in the sugar market, but not only. we have limited the level of support for our farmers. to what extent did this increase value added, in which countries and for which social and occupational groups? i would like to ask you, commissioner, what did the european union get in return? the next question is how did the symptoms of the global food crisis affect the wto negotiations? will the current financial crisis, which is likely to affect the state of our economy, have an impact on the negotiations at the world trade organization?
rapporteur. − madam president, this report closes a certain phase in our eu-ukraine policies. starting with trade and service agreements, i will draw a broader vision of the future cooperation within the wto and then within the enhanced free trade area once this is created. the report, which is short on statements, is an important step in regulating and facilitating our cooperation with our significant neighbour, ukraine. we are consistent and transparent in our intentions and deeds. there is an assumption behind them that, if economic conditions improve, then people may invest more energy in solving the other problems that they face – political, social and others, although all of these are interwoven. today, when the very substance of ukraine trembles – a minute ago i read a message that yushchenko has dissolved the parliament – our assistance can be of crucial value, but cooperation limited only to the economy would not be sufficient. we need to have a broader project, a detailed strategy, composed of various aspects. the frame of our neighbourhood policy gives room for a strategy similar to the union for the mediterranean. there is a report by mrs napoletano which is very much supported by the present presidency. it would be advisable for the french presidency to show more courage in promoting the proposal by a sufficient group of members to create euro-nest, that is an official assembly of european and our eastern neighbours’ parliaments. we should not limit ourselves only to the nations around the basin of the mediterranean sea but should have a balanced vision in our neighbourhood policy. we should not leave weak links in the chain of countries surrounding our union borders. taking the example of barcelona as a potential candidate to be the seat, or as it were capital, of the mediterranean union, i propose for the future eastern neighbour union – something like the black sea union – that the city of lublin in eastern poland be the location for administering such a body. historically lublin has proved itself by being the city of an important international union that preceded the one which we are building at the moment – or at least are trying to build. in conclusion, the scope of my position and proposal is that i would like to mobilise this house, the commission and the council to be more active in our eastern dimension. why should we do that? the answer is simple. if we believe in our european values as being able to improve the human condition on earth, there can be no room for passively awaiting political developments in that area. the case of georgia is a warning to us as far as the future of ukraine is concerned. let us not wake up to find that we are pushed away from the political and economic stage, which has been taken by another actor, or even being accused of passivity, lack of political vision and inability to resolve the conflicts in our neighbourhood. if we rely on the kremlin strategy – as seemed to be supported by the socialist group during its recent delegation visit to moscow led by martin schulz – then we lose out as a player on the international stage. our european citizens will be the victims of energy prices, tensions and insecurity. to conclude, even if ukraine is not as efficient in democratisation as we would expect, we should not decrease our efforts to create an enhanced cooperation with her people, whose european ambitions are crucial, not only for themselves, but perhaps even more for us, the citizens of europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for promptly giving its opinion and adopting this positive report, as it is important that this agreement is formalised as soon as possible after ukrainian accession to the wto, to avoid any legal vacuum. following ukraine’s accession to the wto, this agreement preserves two very important commitments that help our international maritime operators in their activities in ukraine. the first provision ensures national treatment to nationals and companies of the community providing international maritime transport services when providing international sea-river services in the inland waterways of ukraine. the second preserves the so-called greek clause, which allows eu or ukraine nationals or shipping companies established outside the eu or ukraine to benefit from the provisions on maritime services, if their vessels are registered in the eu or ukraine respectively. these two provisions will be integrated in the very ambitious free trade agreement we are currently negotiating with ukraine. this free trade agreement is referred to as a deep and comprehensive fta and it should indeed correspond to these qualifiers. we are keen that this should be so because of the important political and economic considerations at stake in relation to ukraine. the process we are engaged in is not just about trade and investment flows. it is a sign of ukraine’s continuing political and economic integration into the global economy, and deep partnership with the eu. the free trade agreement is one of the central elements of the broader association agreement we are negotiating with ukraine in the context of the neighbourhood policy. to the extent that ukraine can transpose, implement and enforce the eu acquis in some key areas, as foreseen under the current free trade agreement negotiations, the european union should be ready to extend the internal market benefits in these areas. this is especially valid for services where there can be most added value for both partners. furthermore, because ukraine’s wto commitments in the field of services are already very broad, the fta and the acquis approximation process will allow us to tackle beyond-the-border barriers. this agreement will incentivise eu foreign direct investment in ukraine by cutting red tape and bringing transparency as well as helping exporters and service providers on both sides, by bringing our relations closer and sharing our standards. as a consequence we should see accelerated trade flows and an increase of personal contacts that result from growing small businesses and regional supply chains. this is of course a challenging and lengthy process but the commission believes that this agreement will set the framework and create the incentives for this convergence to occur. but, as i stressed before, we should not forget that this process is not just about economic opportunities. it is part of a broader test of the transformation of ukraine and its partnership with the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. trade relations between the european union countries and ukraine are of great importance due to the demographic potential of both partners. the development of these relations is all the more important as it strengthens the pro-european aspirations of ukrainian society through trade contacts. there are still many unresolved issues in our relations. one of them is the issue of illegal takeover of companies by ukrainian partners. the unclear relationship in the ukrainian justice system, and therefore the recovery of your property takes many years. the political instability of our partner is also having a negative impact on our deepening cooperation. the future looks even more unpredictable. we hope that the authorities of this country will do everything possible to ensure that the european union borders ukraine with full legal and political guarantees for the development of businesses and economic cooperation, especially in the service sector.
madam president! political and economic relations with ukraine are very important to us. every year we see an increase in investment in ukraine, also in the european dimension. they have a positive impact on many sectors, but also on consumers in this country, for example by increasing consumerism. the share of foreign banks in the ukrainian banking sector is already 35% at present. the services sector is fundamental and essential to the economy of ukraine. it needs further reforms and investments to reach the level of development of the sector in the union countries. the same applies to other sectors of the ukrainian economy, including the healthcare and tourism sectors. we need to develop and strengthen our economic relations between ukraine and the european union. we must remember that ukraine is an important transit country for us from the point of view of energy security in europe. we also appreciate ukraine's efforts, including legislative efforts, to deepen the economic dialogue with europe and its recent accession to the wto.
madam president! the draft legislative resolution we are discussing has the full support of my political group, the uen. ukraine is an interesting partner, especially in the area of trade, services and investment. good cooperation between the european union and ukraine is very important, especially for neighbouring countries. such countries include poland, which has a rich experience with ukraine not only in the economic area. ukraine is also a great opportunity for tourism and leisure development. it's a country with a rich cultural tradition. ukraine needs new technologies, investment, the development of the banking system and social communication, among other things, in order to develop properly. the european union can help ukraine in this respect. ukraine is also an important market for european products. this is also something we must bear in mind when defining our tasks and the direction of our future cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! the agreement with ukraine is an important event affecting the normalization of relations between our parties. this is a good starting point for the preparation of an association agreement between the union and ukraine. first of all, this agreement will create an opportunity to develop trade between us and increase investment in the bilateral system. the transfer of know-how in the field of standards, quality and the approximation of our legal and institutional acquis is a very important area of our cooperation. the exchange of young people, especially students, and the development of scientific, cultural and tourist cooperation are essential to the successful implementation of these tasks.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, i want to focus on three issues that i think are important. first, ukraine is a key partner of the european union in diversifying its oil and gas supply. the agreement with ukraine provides an opportunity for the supply of these energy carriers from the black sea and caucasus region to europe. secondly, ukraine's accession to the world trade organisation in may this year creates additional favourable conditions for the development of economic relations with that country, in particular in the field of services. the commission has also provided information on the progress of the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine.
member of the commission. − mr president, i once again thank the parliament on behalf of the commission for these comments, its positive opinion and the rapid adoption of this report. in the short term, this helps both partners to preserve some important economic interests, with the least legal vacuum possible, following ukraine’s entry into the world trade organisation. in the medium and longer term, this is only one element of the wider and very ambitious process of economic integration we are engaged in within the framework of our association agreement with ukraine.
rapporteur. − commissioner, the maritime service agreement cannot be overestimated. we all know how important the black sea route and land transit across ukraine could be for europe – for all of us – but without our support the future of this area is not certain. i will now speak in polish. sprawozdawca. − koledzy posłowie poruszali potrzebę ścisłej współpracy i podkreślali fakt oczywistej przynależności ukrainy do europy. następnie zwracali uwagę na inwestycje, turystykę, przedsiębiorczość. dużo zależy oczywiście od samej ukrainy. to oczywiste. może właśnie teraz, dzisiaj, jutro, w kolejnych tygodniach, trzeba spolaryzowanemu społeczeństwu ukraińskiemu pomóc gospodarczo, politycznie, naukowo i społecznie. nie tyle krytykujmy, ile raczej rozsądnie podejmujmy kroki konstruktywne. dla dobra obu stron, ukrainy i unii. dziękuję bardzo wszystkim za tę debatę i proszę o mocne wsparcie tego sprawozdania.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 9 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. – the service sector is essential for the eu and the ukrainian economies. ukraine seems to be compelled to reform its energy sector in order to maximise production and improve quality and safety standards. the short-term transition hardships should therefore result in a modernised and more transparent services market. on the other hand, we should not forget about fighting corruption, which is so rampant in the ukraine. the european union must be ready to support ukraine’s efforts but ukraine must also do its share of domestic reforms. there are a number of issues that we as representatives of the european union should address: (1) strengthen the energy security of ukraine and the eu member states; (2) ensure a higher level of energy efficiency; (3) reconstruct and modernise the thermal power sector and reduce its negative impact on the environment; (4) increase regulating generation capacities; and (5) ensure a higher level of consumption of renewable energy. all of them should fall within an open and transparent energy market. we cannot handle more monopolies in such crucial sectors.
the next item is the report by richard seeber, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on tackling water scarcity and drought in the european union (2008/2074 (ini)) (a6-0362/2008).
mr. chairman, please! the protection of water resources, aquatic ecosystems and drinking water is one of the foundations of environmental protection. coordinated action at european union level is therefore necessary to ensure the effective protection of this valuable resource. the three main challenges facing the european union in terms of water use are conservation, sustainability and efficiency. climate change is not the only challenge facing europe. despite the increasing demand for water resources, we still face an excessive, unsustainable and inefficient use of water that is growing at almost twice the rate of the world's population. in europe alone, at least 20% of resources are wasted because of inefficient management. demand-setting measures should therefore be preferred to simply increasing water supplies. supply management measures should only be considered after the possibilities of more efficient water management, better demand control and educational activities have been exhausted. regional cooperation and the use of the structural funds can also play a significant role.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the discussion which dealt with the issue of water management and the problems connected with water from many different perspectives, and i will not comment on each of the contributions. i would like to touch on a few points, however, which i believe are particularly important in the report. first, the report recognises the importance of the water framework directive. full implementation of this directive is a priority to help tackle water mismanagement. the report also recalls that demand-side approaches should be clarified and welcomes the fact that water saving is the commission's first priority to tackle this problem. there is a huge potential for water saving in europe: 33% in households and 43% in agriculture. the report also highlights the link between water scarcity, drought and climate change and the need to take account of water issues in other policies, such as land use planning, where in the past bad decisions have in some cases exacerbated the problem. the report also calls on regional and local authorities to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the structural funds and highlights the role played by environmental programmes under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. this integration will be at the forefront of the shift towards water-saving habits. the report also recognises the importance of high-quality information and calls on the commission to support the launch of a european drought observatory. following the communication, the commission's joint research centre is currently developing a prototype. finally, the report stresses the need for precise measures and concrete timetables for their implementation. i can assure you that the commission is committed to further deepening the objectives of the communication and is working on a report assessing progress towards addressing the issues identified in the report. in addition, the commission is fully committed to continue addressing these issues at international level, in particular in the framework of the united nations convention to combat desertification and the united nations framework convention on climate change. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that water will continue to be at the heart of our political agenda and that your report is a very useful and timely contribution to the commission's ongoing efforts to adapt to climate change. ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate has really shown that water management is a complex issue, and i think that it is necessary to underline your point that it must go through all policies transversally and that it also has its great importance and strong international aspect.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 9 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the governance of the arctic in a global world, by diana wallis, biljana ilieva and johannes lebech, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0084/2008 - b6-0467/2008).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the debate has made it clear that this is indeed a matter of prime strategic interest from all points of view, from the point of view of environmental protection as well as from the point of view of geopolitics. it has also become clear that there is not much time left and that there are clear reasons for the european union to formulate its policy. it is also clear, however, that some of the proposals are complicated and that the situation in the arctic in general is very complicated from the point of view of the european union and from the point of view of international law. for example, the most important countries, such as norway, iceland, greenland and the russian federation, are not members of the european union, and it follows that coastal and territorial rights cannot be applied in our strategy. but that does not change the fact that a strategy needs to be formulated, that the commission is working on that strategy, that it will be presented very quickly in the form of a communication in the next few weeks. ladies and gentlemen, i cannot respond to all your comments because of the lack of time, but i have noted them and they will be taken into consideration by the commission. as i have tried to suggest very briefly, some of the questions are extraordinarily complicated and extraordinarily complex.
i have received three draft resolutions - see minutes - tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 9 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr piero antonia panzerini, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on stepping up the fight against undeclared work (2008/2062 (ini)) (a6-0365/2008).
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur and make a very brief comment on a number of points which have been highlighted in the report. it is a fact that black-shop work is increasingly a cross-border phenomenon, and this information was presented by the commission in its green paper on labour law. so this is a question that needs to be addressed. we believe that the establishment of the expert group, together with the development of a system of exchange of information between labour inspectorates in the field of social security, are important steps towards 'establishing a certain permanent community structure for crossborder cooperation', as proposed in point 53. we all agree that more efforts are needed to tackle the problem of black-collar work, but i think that in general the most appropriate and justified action would be at member state level. our research has shown that undeclared work manifests itself in different ways in different member states and therefore action at community level should not be considered as an immediate priority. the report envisages a pact for the publication of black labour, under which legislation would be temporarily looser, which could give an impetus to the regulation of black labour. while this is a good idea, we believe that member states should act together with the social partners, who have, by the way, included black-owned work among their priorities across europe. within its powers, the commission could support their initiative through campaigns financed by the progress programme or through the structural funds. as regards the request to propose a framework status for spouses or family members assisting in family businesses, i would like to recall that the commission has recently adopted a proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women, repealing directive 86/613/eec and ensuring that assisting partners enjoy the same level of protection as self-employed workers. the commission is also working on tools and methods to improve the evaluation and monitoring of undeclared work and to identify and exchange best practice at european union level within the framework of the progress programme. we have focused more on the exchange of best practices and hope that this will provide the necessary experience to design a pilot tool as soon as possible, which would be of interest to as many member states as possible. i will not go into detail on the issue of illegal immigration and the draft sanctions for employers of illegal immigrants from third countries. we take note of the concerns expressed in this report regarding the treatment of victims of such illegal employment and the level of responsibility of the supply companies and will take them into account in our discussions with the council. the commission greatly appreciates the political support of the european parliament in its efforts to abolish the transitional measures restricting the free movement of workers from the new member states. in conclusion, i would like to say that this extremely constructive report will give the commission and the council new energy to raise the profile of the fight against undeclared work and to increase the ambition associated with it.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on thursday 9 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr alejandra cercas, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the implementation of social legislation relating to road transport (2008/2062 (ini)) (a6-0357/2008).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is today discussing the implementation and possible ways of further developing the directive on working time for mobile road workers. it is a specific part of the legislation governing working hours for road transport workers such as bus or lorry drivers. however, the directive does not apply to self-employed drivers. many members will recall that the directive was adopted in 2002 after a difficult conciliation procedure, which resulted in the adoption of a complex review clause. this clause provides that, as from 23 march 2009, the provisions of the directive will be extended to all self-employed drivers, provided that the commission submits a report on the impact of the current non-inclusion of self-employed drivers and a draft legislative provision to the council and the european parliament on self-employed drivers. the inclusion or non-inclusion of self-employed drivers in the scope of the directive is a real dilemma, but if you will, also a false problem. the main objective of the commission in presenting its legislative proposal on working conditions in road transport is to ensure a high level of social protection, a level playing field and, at the same time, to improve road safety. the commission therefore considered it necessary to introduce a special regime for mobile road workers by means of a special law for the general working time directive. however, since 2002, other provisions of the legislation applying to drivers have changed significantly for the better. with your support, and in particular with the help of mr markov, a set of new measures on driving times, rest periods and checks was adopted in 2005. while the working time directive adopted in 2002 was originally applicable only to employed drivers, the rules adopted in 2005 apply to all drivers, both employed and self-employed. the rules cover 80% of the working hours of all drivers. parliament's legitimate concerns in this respect were therefore correctly addressed during the conciliation procedure on the 2002 working time directive. as regards the revision of the 2002 working time directive, it is no secret that member states' positions on this issue differ widely and that this division of opinion exists both within member states and within sectors. the commission published its report on the implications of not including self-employed drivers in the scope of the directive in may 2007. the report reached two conclusions: firstly, that the advantages and disadvantages of the two options are rather mixed, and secondly, that the implementation of the directive has been hampered by the difficulties encountered by member states in enforcing it, in particular because of the pseudo-self-employed drivers, as those drivers are called in the industry who are formally self-employed but in fact dependent on one company and cannot organise their work activities as they would like. they are socially vulnerable and, as i said, the directive already applies to them, but enforcement needs to be significantly improved. the commission has closely monitored the transposition of the directive into national law and, where necessary, has initiated infringement proceedings. once member states have completed the transposition of the directive into national law, we have carried out a thorough quality control of this implementation. this has led to infringement proceedings being initiated in many cases. in addition, the commission is currently carrying out an impact assessment to establish a compact basis for a legislative proposal, which will be worked on later this year. it would therefore be premature for the commission to take a position on the issue of selfemployed drivers at this stage, if the question concerns only their inclusion or exclusion from the scope of the working time directive. i am pleased with mr cercas' report, and particularly with the development of the enforcement issue. however, as i have indicated, the commission considers that the solution proposed by the report does not address the problem of the full and correct implementation of the directive in relation to all workers already covered by its scope. and that's what we've been doing so far and that's what we're going to try to do in the next amendment.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on thursday 9 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by gabriela zimmer, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, including child poverty, in the european union (2008/2034 (ini)) (a6-0364/2008).
member of the commission. - mr president, mr member, madam member, allow me to comment on the report. as you know, in the renewed social agenda, the commission formulated the idea of combating poverty as an integral part of the social agenda and followed this idea up with recommendations on social inclusion. i am very pleased that the report presented by the honourable member in her speech has stated support for this recommendation as well as citing favourably some of the basic approaches which it sets out. i would point out that just as the commission considers integral efforts to promote social inclusion to be of paramount importance, it is even more focused on the issue of child poverty. i would like to point out in this connection that this is the first time that this issue has been clearly formulated in the mandate of the present commission, and we are committed to this in the future, because it is quite clear that one of the very serious sociological problems of poverty is hereditary poverty, that is, poverty which is passed on from family to family, and it is extremely important for us to break this vicious circle. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the commission can count on the support of parliament in this endeavour. i look forward, of course, with great interest to the further development of the documents and reports submitted. and it is also quite clear that the commission will make significant use of parliament's decisions and opinions in its further efforts to promote social inclusion, because this is not a matter that can be resolved with a single communication, nor is it a matter that can be fought over a short period of weeks or months.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on thursday 9 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. in 2005, 78 million people (16%) in the european union were living below the poverty line. today, one in five eu citizens lives in substandard conditions, about 1.8 million people seek shelter in homeless shelters every day, 10% live in households where no one works, the long-term unemployment rate is 4%, 15% of workers receive extremely low wages and 8% of workers live in poverty despite having a job. another 19 million children are affected by poverty. there are countries in the eu that still do not have adequate national social security systems. in this context, the approach proposed by the european commission to active social inclusion is commendable. social inclusion policies must guarantee the fundamental right of all people to live in dignity and participate in society, and must ensure an inclusive labour market, better access to high quality services, gender equality and non-discrimination. the current level of social assistance is below the poverty line and member states should adjust it to meet its primary objective of lifting people out of poverty. social protection programmes should be effective in helping people and supporting them in finding stable employment. immediate action is needed for children suffering from various burdens, children from immigrant families, children who are neglected, abused and subjected to violence.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the debate, as the rapporteur has said, is a purely political debate, and a political debate at a particular moment. i agree with my predecessors who say that europe is in a crisis of values today and that values are as necessary to europe as air. symbols imposed in breach of european law shall not replace these values. the symbolism which was rejected at the intergovernmental conference when the draft treaty of lisbon was adopted is now being imposed by parliament, contrary to the principles which state explicitly that only in the form of a treaty can obligations be imposed which are directly enforceable and binding on all member states. it is unacceptable to impose the solutions that are to be enforced in this way, because it breaks the fundamental canon on which the european union is supposedly based the canon of absolute respect for the law and intergovernmental agreements. it is a circumvention of the provision rejected in the european treaty and the introduction of these rules by a side-track leading directly to the imposition of a quasi-european state.
mr. chairman, please! symbols such as the flag, the anthem, the common currency and holidays are inherent attributes of the state. it was for these reasons that it was agreed to remove them during the negotiations on the lisbon treaty. it is hypocritical to say that the return to them is an internal solution of one of the european institutions. the european parliament, which is the legislator, cannot give the signal to bypass previous intergovernmental agreements. it must stand guard over the rule of law and democracy. the resurrection of symbols that were previously removed will make the european parliament an anachronistic institution. while fully understanding that each institution may use specific symbols, it should be noted that this is a broader dimension as the rapporteur political pointed out, and therefore should be strongly opposed.
in writing. true, symbols represent emotional attachment to a favorite organization or state. when we see a flag, a motto, a national anthem, or even a coin, we associate it with a country or an organization. it is obvious that the european union also has such symbols, which allow for easy identification and emotional connection. the dark blue flag with twelve golden stars; 'ode to joy' from ludwig van beethoven's ninth symphony; 'europe day' on 9 may; the euro as the official currency of 15 member states; these are long-established, well-known and widely accepted symbols, first of the communities and now of the eu. if we add to this the motto of the union, 'united in diversity', we have a perfect description of the essence of the european project. as a member of the convention, i very much regret that the eu symbols described in the european constitution were never implemented. they were seen as 'quasi-state' elements and were therefore removed from the text of the lisbon treaty. however, i believe that they have not lost their attractiveness and character for eu citizens and continue to be the bearers of the values on which the european union is founded and the expression of the sense of community of its citizens. it is therefore good that the impetus for the use of european symbols comes from the european parliament itself.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank the rapporteur for her work. it is good that we can now take up this important subject, following on from last year's strategy paper prepared by the commission. the importance of prevention, proper nutrition, drinking water and air quality, healthy lifestyles, early detection of diseases and their prompt treatment should therefore be emphasised. today, we see great disparities in access to health care between countries and between different social groups. there is a clear lack of social cohesion here. these disparities are also seen in survival rates for cancer, cardiovascular disease and other diseases. an increase in the number of people suffering from mental illness is a matter of concern. our medical practices, especially the misuse of antibiotics and steroids, also leave much to be desired. health insurance systems, which often prove ineffective, are also a cause for concern. being aware of the value of health and the limitations of our biological life, i would like to remind you of the words of the polish poet aleksander fredry: "respect your health properly, because if you die, you lose your life".
mr. chairman, please! i fully endorsed the report presented by mr peterle of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety together for health: a strategic approach for the european union 2008-2013. especially since its subject is one of the most pressing issues of the european union and the world. it is worth noting that this is the first strategic programme to present the union's approach to health policy in a comprehensive way, presenting the values and objectives of the community in this field. it is also a strategy that sets the union apart from other health systems and can serve as an example for them. i am pleased to hear that the strategy has been well received in the member states and that some countries have already taken steps to develop a common position and to integrate the strategy into their national health plans (slovenia being one example). such measures have also been taken in poland. given that it is impossible to speak of a health strategy without taking into account the ways in which health services are financed, which are driving the budget deficit in many countries of the european union, i believe that the strategic plan should be considered in the light of the ways in which public health services are financed in the member states. i would like to draw attention to a point which has been the subject of our debate before. i am referring to the issue of new information technologies and their impact on children and young people. the issue of the negative impact of uncontrolled computer and internet games, addiction and related diseases, is becoming an increasingly serious civilization and social problem, particularly affecting children and young people. e commission and the european council are currently developing a suitable mechanism for cooperation on health policy, and it would be a good direction for us to get involved in the implementation of this project.
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, there are serious health disparities between the old and new member states, which, when combined, translate into a very marked difference in life expectancy of nine years for women and as much as 13 years for men. we should aim to reduce these differences significantly. secondly, there is a need to increase spending on disease prevention significantly, as only 3% of spending is currently devoted to this purpose. after all, as many as 40 percent of all diseases are linked to unhealthy lifestyles, and many of these are preventable. thirdly, as obesity is increasingly becoming a serious civilization disease, there is a need to promote healthy lifestyles and preferences for healthy, organic food produced without the use of fertilisers and plant protection products. as this type of production is not very productive, it needs increased financial support under the common agricultural policy.
mr. chairman, please! there are a lot of important issues in health and health care that are raised in this document. although the constitutions of individual countries guarantee universal access to health care and respect for the competence of the member states in the field of health protection, together with the freedom to choose health services, is a positive aspect, i would like to draw attention to the danger to my countrymen due to the government's planned transformation of all health care facilities in poland into for-profit companies. the proposed reforms go beyond the limits of self-determination of the health care system, threatening the fundamental human rights of health and life. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the polish authorities have not provided any evidence that the private hospitals in poland are in breach of the law.
mr. chairman, please! health matters are a matter for the individual states. this should not prevent us from taking joint action to protect the health of europeans. the overarching objectives set out in the white paper, such as promoting health in an ageing europe, protecting citizens from health risks and fostering dynamic health systems, cannot be achieved without a significant role for local and regional actors. they should therefore be fully involved in the implementation of this strategy. the white paper addresses the issue of health inequalities and health disparities between countries and between groups in society. we have low levels of certain health services in most of the new member countries. this gap should be closed and therefore efforts to eliminate inequalities should be strengthened and treated as a priority objective. the white paper also calls for the emphasis and importance of health awareness programmes, including nutrition programmes, to be increased. proper diet and a healthy lifestyle can prevent many chronic diseases. that is why it is so important to have nutrition and exercise training programs taught to children from an early age.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank the honourable members for their contributions and i will deal with some of the points raised by them. mrs oviir and mrs grossetête said that the white paper was too general. but the aim of the white paper is to set up a number of general principles and objectives to guide community health action for the years to come. it would be very difficult to set quantifiable targets on such broad and general objectives and on such a wide range of issues. the commission does fully agree that quantifiable targets are a good means to drive change and to achieve results. we feel, however, that it is better to consider such targets within each individual policy initiative in the framework of the strategy. a number of speakers referred to inequalities in health, for example mr janowski, mr adamou, mrs belohorská, mrs doyle, mr kuźmiuk and mrs westlund. we fully agree with the concerns raised and with the need to help to bridge the health gap. the commission will be presenting a communication next year but, in the mean time, we will help to channel structural funds for health. mrs willmott asked a number of questions. she made the point that there are too many work streams in health. but this is the reason why the eu health strategy adopted in 2007 aims to bring together, under a coherent framework, all policies that impact on health. the commission is looking at the different structures in the health sector to achieve synergies between structures and to ensure that work is done in an efficient and an effective manner without duplication. mrs willmott also asked about the carcinogens directive. the commission has consulted the social partners on the possible revision of the 2004 directive in this area and is currently commissioning a study to be concluded in early 2010 on the options for amending this directive. the results of this study will enable the commission to decide on an appropriate way forward. eu legislation on health and safety at work, specifically the 1998 directive on all chemical agents, already covers protection at work against all chemicals, including those with a toxic effect on reproduction. mrs westlund raised the issue of antibiotic resistance. the commission is working closely with the ecdc. the ecdc work plan for 2008 includes antimicrobial resistance among its priority actions. in addition it plans to organise, on an annual basis, an eu antibiotic awareness day. this event is aimed at strengthening public perception and knowledge of issues relating to all antimicrobial resistance. the first awareness day will take place on 18 november 2008. we are also collaborating closely with the ecdc on the preparation of a second report on member states’ implementation of the council recommendation of 2002. in conclusion i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peterle, and all members for their support for the health strategy that we have developed.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. health is one of the most precious things in human life. but unfortunately, alarming developments like the rise in cancer, cardiovascular disease, obesity, diabetes, remind us that this value is at risk. climate change, globalization, population aging are other challenges that we face, as are the threat of pandemics and bioterrorism. it is also worrying that the cost of medicines has risen sharply over the past few years, making them unaffordable for many eu citizens, while the health systems of some eu countries require radical reforms to tackle the huge inequalities. for example, the difference in life expectancy is 9 years for women and 13 years for men. another important issue should be to invest in policies to protect health in the early stages of human life. on the other hand, a situation in which it is generally accepted that children with chronic diseases or disabilities should not be allowed to be born should not be allowed and assistance to parents of sick children should be promoted. i would also like to stress that the member states' competence in the field of health protection and the freedom to choose health services must be respected. as health is also an economic factor, investing in health should be seen not only as a cost but also as an important part of investing in quality human capital and as a fundamental political and social issue.
the rapporteur. - mr president, as the situation in ukraine is quite serious, i would like to say a few words about this report. it is only economic in nature but we need a broader strategy where, like euromed, there is room for euro-nest, another union which would be based in lublin, poland. we must learn from the crisis in georgia, so that we do not wake up one day outside the political scene, where another actor has taken our place. in conclusion, i would ask all members to support this report as a strong signal to the ukrainians, who have european ambitions and are now in a very difficult crisis.
mr. chairman, please! poverty is a multifaceted phenomenon. it is usually associated with unemployment, especially long-term unemployment. therefore, work is presented as the best safeguard against this phenomenon. this cannot be the only safeguard (as evidenced by the very high incidence of working-age poverty) in the fight against poverty, which threatens 78 million people in the union, or 16% of the population. the joint efforts must involve all levels of public authority, together with the social partners, civil society organisations and individual citizens. labour market and social policy require organisation and improvement. efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion must be sustained and large-scale. we must also remember that statutory social security schemes must play a preventive role, promote social cohesion and facilitate social integration. the report focuses on the issue of child poverty. special attention should be paid to single parents, children from large families and immigrant families. effective remedies are needed to prevent the social marginalisation of these people.
mr. chairman, please! the loss of democracy in belarus is particularly painful in the context of the new eu policy of reconciliation with that country, following the events in georgia. lukashenko underestimated the gesture of europe and the chance to break out of isolation. the osce report says that the belarusian elections did not meet democratic standards and that the new parliament will once again be formed by people dependent on the last dictator of europe. despite these abuses, it seems reasonable to continue the policy of de-icing relations. at the same time, we stress that these cannot be concessions on the union's part alone. the belarusian president must demonstrate genuine goodwill backed by appropriate action. the pressure on lukashenka must be intensified, but at the same time the benefits offered to the belarusian people must be increased so that the european offer is an effective alternative to the option of further rapprochement with russia.
mr. chairman, please! the chances of a negotiated conclusion in the doha round are fading. mr mandelson's resignation as trade commissioner is proof of that. it is likely that further talks will be held after 2010. complicating matters further is the fact that elections are to be held in the next two years, not only in the united states but also in india and brazil. this will lead to new negotiations being conducted by a different set of people. for the first time, the european union is not responsible for the breakdown of the talks. the failure of the mysterious july talks has been blamed on the us and india. however, experts point out that the main reason was the lack of progress in the area of services and industry. if we are to return to the negotiating table, we must first think about how to help the poorest countries. at the same time, we should not forget to protect our interests, especially the agricultural sector. too much opening up of our market is a major threat to the stability of farm incomes and can lead to their collapse. how can we guarantee the food security of the european union in such a situation? the lack of agreement on trade is an example of how difficult it is to reach a compromise on important issues when so many countries with different interests are involved in the talks. let us hope that this will not be the case during the international negotiations on climate change.
mr. chairman, please! the report has already won a majority in the house, and before the vote one of the well-known members, mr duff, took the liberty of expressing the opinion that he was very surprised that the countries of eastern europe, which had recently been admitted to the european union, were opposed to the introduction of the flag and anthem as a system in the european parliament. i am in a hurry to explain to mr duff that the simple slogan used in the campaign 'moscow yesterday, brussels today' is justified, because it is just as easy in brussels to change something that is not in line with european law and to introduce such rules, as it is to introduce principles of solidarity, fairness and non-discrimination. take the energy policy, for example, where solutions have been imposed on poland that will destroy the polish energy industry in the majesty of the law, but contrary to the principles i have been talking about.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european community and its member states, of the protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons, to take account of the participation of the republic of bulgaria and romania as contracting parties, consequent on the accession of those states to the european union (9116/2008 c6-0209/2008 c6-0209/2008 2008/0080 ((avc)). the rapporteur, mr marian jean marinescu, welcomes the extension of the agreement. it rightly points out that it is a huge opportunity for the swiss side as well as the bulgarian and romanian sides. it is also a promotion of eu policies based on economic growth and employment growth. it is worrying (as mr marinescu points out) that the solution developed has differences in timeframe compared to the previous treaty (eu 10). i fully agree that it is an unfavourable extension of the transitional period for the two countries (eu 2). it is important to remember and make every effort to accelerate the ratification and implementation process immediately after the referendum in 2009.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a european system for the exchange of information from prisoners' registers (espirs), in accordance with article 11 of framework decision 2008/xx/jha (com (2008) 0332 c6 0216/2008 2008/0101 ((cns)). the rapporteur, luca romagnoli, rightly points out that the purpose of this proposal is to implement the principles already agreed and to provide for implementing measures, not to redefine them. it is essential to establish electronic communication in order to increase the efficiency of the flow of information within the european system of criminal records. it takes too long to get it across these days, and it's the information that's the success factor these days. however, it should be borne in mind that:- for full success, every effort must be made to provide the judicial authorities with knowledge tools,- in terms of data protection, the s/testa system is necessary to guarantee the security of the network. however, it is worrying to note that the legal compatibility of the solution is not correct. it should be checked against the relevant treaties. in conclusion, i believe that the report should be adopted and the decision implemented in the member states.
in writing. − unregistered work is a complex phenomenon with many dimensions: economic, social, institutional and even cultural. it is done to the detriment of many actors. the state budget lacks revenue to finance its expenditure, and the people who work underground often lack access to the benefits of being an employee, not to mention the risks to the health and safety of workers and the limited prospects for career advancement. undeclared work is also a problem for the internal market, damaging its functioning. however, the causes of this phenomenon vary from one member state to another and the measures taken to combat it must therefore be differentiated. i agree with the main points of the report, which aim to step up the fight against this phenomenon, and i therefore supported the report drawn up by mr piero antonia panzerini. however, i would like to make it clear that i do not believe that the proposed revision of the provisions of the directive, especially in the context of the judgments of the european court of justice, will be an effective tool in the fight against undeclared employment. i will consistently oppose calls to amend the provisions of the posting of workers directive. i believe that in the context of combating undeclared work, strengthening administrative cooperation and the exchange of information between member states is a sufficient solution when it comes to the posting of workers.
in writing. - unregistered work in the eu has become commonplace. in denmark, for example, as many as 18 percent of the population are engaged in or have had contact with such work. very often, the employee is not at risk for this work. the employer is most often punished, and in the 'best case' the employee is only obliged to pay a fine which is lower than the fine paid by the employer. in theory, no one can be deported to their home country for unregistered work, although some countries (e.g. denmark and belgium) reserve the right to do so in 'certain cases' (such as 'persistent' and 'long-term' breaches of the law). the european union should do all it can to combat this phenomenon effectively. the most effective way is to reduce taxes and remove administrative barriers in the legal labour market so that unregistered work is no longer profitable for both parties.
in writing. − in 2006, 19 per cent of children were at risk of poverty, compared with 16 per cent of the total population. today, of the 78 million poor people on our continent, 19 million are children. insufficient income, poor access to basic services, limited development opportunities and differences in the effectiveness of universal and targeted policies are just some of the many causes of poverty. the policy to support families with children aims to combat the poverty and social exclusion faced by single parents. it should also take into account the 'threat' posed by the abovementioned problems. i therefore believe that the eu should do its utmost to achieve this.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on belarus. it is a balanced and necessary resolution. we're trying to find a recipe for improving the situation in belarus. we want a democratic, free belarus that shares european values and standards. i believe that improvement is possible. the trick is to find the right scenario and execute it. i hope that the resolution we have adopted brings us closer to that solution.
in writing. - i voted against the european parliament's legal recognition of the european emblem because: - it is disloyal to the european council's decision, whereby all the member states decided to delete the issue of the european emblem from the reform treaty, which replaced the draft constitutional treaty;- the parliament's decision is to introduce the emblem by the back door, against the will of the member states. parliament's use of such legal loopholes is a sign of weakness, not strength; such steps arouse legitimate mistrust among many citizens of eu member states who do not wish to assign to an international organisation such as the european union symbols reserved for states.
in writing. − the problem of water scarcity and drought, together with the growing effects of global warming, is now becoming a major concern. in recent decades, we have seen an increase in extreme droughts and water shortages, largely the result of mismanagement and wasteful use of water for agricultural purposes. the eu also faces serious threats from climate change and human activities. more than one third of europeans now live in areas affected by water scarcity. this percentage is expected to increase unless appropriate action is taken immediately to achieve sustainable and rationalised consumption. and the projected population growth from 6 to 9 billion by 2050 will create even greater demand for water. some experts are starting to compare water to oil. cheap, publicly available water is history. in agriculture, water scarcity needs to be tackled by developing retention and irrigation systems and by creating a culture of responsible water conservation through an active awareness-raising policy. we should all start conserving and using water efficiently. it is also necessary to use technologies to prevent water wastage, to raise public awareness of the problem and to take a more integrated approach to water and drought.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs ieke van den burg on the follow-up to the lamfalussy directives on the future supervisory structure. there is no doubt that in the face of the current financial crisis, caused by the extremely risky investments and other actions of banks in the us, there is an urgent need for reform of financial market regulation and supervision. however, the eu's coordinated policy in response to the financial crisis will not work well without the lisbon treaty. ratification is necessary to ensure the proper representation of the european institutions in the international financial architecture. market integration is a positive phenomenon, but the necessary financial supervision has not kept pace. i believe that it requires an update as soon as possible, preceded by a comprehensive review of the eu's regulatory and supervisory arrangements. we should ensure an appropriate level of transparency for citizens, investors and regulators. to this end, it is a good idea to set up a group of advisers to look at the long-term vision of supervision and to prepare a draft or action plan for long-term reform. i share the view that, in order to reduce the risk of future crises, the european union should prepare more coherent and effective legislation today.
in writing. - i fully support the report by mr peterlego. i think it is a good continuation of the priorities of slovenia, which during its presidency has placed health at a very high level. no wonder, since health is the most precious possession in human life. unfortunately, we are seeing worrying health trends in europe, such as the rise in cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity. we also have to face the new challenges of population ageing, climate change, globalisation and even the aftermath of terrorism in the form of the threat of bioterrorism. however, there are serious inequalities between member states' health systems, in particular in terms of access to healthcare, prevention, detection and treatment effectiveness of certain diseases. this is resulting in significant differences in the life expectancy of europeans. it is sad that when we look at the health map of europe, we can again speak of an iron curtain, this time, of health. if we are to change this, we need to improve the way we work together, make our actions more effective and use all of europe's 'medical potential'. i support the rapporteur's proposal to increase the burden on health care systems. i believe that money invested in health care should not be a cost, but an essential part of investing in the quality of human capital. the health of eu citizens must be seen as one of the key political and social issues on which the future of the eu depends.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report 'together for health: a strategic approach for the eu 2008-2013'. the strategy is a response to the european commission's white paper on health policy 2008-2013. the white paper focuses on promoting healthy lifestyles and eliminating barriers to access to healthcare in the eu, protecting citizens from health threats, balancing health systems and implementing new technologies in this field. i believe that the health strategy should place particular emphasis on prevention and early detection of diseases. we are seeing alarming health trends, such as an increase in cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. yet, only 3 percent of health budgets are spent on prevention, and prevention is always better than cure. the fight against civilization diseases will be effective if we ensure that citizens have adequate health care and treatment, if we tackle inequalities in access to health care for different social groups and if we reduce the disparities in access to health care between the member states of the european union. it is also very important to ensure hygiene and safety in the workplace. we also need to make healthcare more patient-friendly.
in writing. - i am in favour of the adoption of a report on the european union strategy for health 2008-13. too little money from the health budgets is spent on disease prevention. that's only 3% of the budget. we're still seeing an increase in the number of diseases of civilization: cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes. these are diseases that are largely the result of poor diet and unhealthy lifestyle. for these diseases, prevention, including through information campaigns, would be much cheaper for the health budget. another issue is the treatment conditions, which vary widely across the european union. the level of participation varies from high in the countries of the old union to low in the countries that have recently joined the community. this is reflected, for example, in higher infant mortality and shorter life spans for both men and women. the european union should take steps to level the playing field in all community countries. health policy should be one of the priorities of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the economic crisis that has hit europe and the world economy may be a cold shower for some overheated minds. it's another argument against the northern pipeline. i hope that the economic data will appeal to those who are not affected by the geopolitical arguments of dependence on a single supplier of energy resources, the need for internal solidarity between eu countries, or the real threat to the baltic sea ecosystem. it is common knowledge that both the construction and operation of a gas pipeline under the sea are much more expensive than the proposed onshore investment. an alternative route through politically and economically stable countries, all of which belong to the union and nato, is not considered by gazprom. it proves the investors' vague intentions, to say the least. but the collapse of world stock markets, especially the moscow market, could do much more than any voice of reason, including the voice of the european parliament, which called for serious consideration of the land-based option of this investment. in poland, in such situations, we say "luck in misery". unfortunately, that's usually a sad observation.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the high unemployment rate in previous years has led to an imbalance between the position of employers and the position of workers on the labour market. the acceptance of so-called flexible forms of employment, which do not guarantee decent working conditions, was the result of the dramatic situation of workers who decide to take any job to support their families. most employers have been ruthlessly exploiting it. the directive guaranteeing equal pay, health and safety at work, maternity protection and vocational training opportunities for temporary agency workers is an important step towards restoring civilised relations in the labour market. it is important that these equal conditions apply from the first day of work. the directive is particularly valuable because it brings together the social partners. temporary workers shall not be deprived of their protection. we therefore consider it necessary to adopt this draft without amendments. the legal defense should be up and running as soon as possible. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! in the debate on the temporary work directive, i would like to draw attention to the following points: in the european union, particularly in recent years, the number of temporary workers has increased significantly, often as a result of economic constraints, and it is therefore necessary to speed up the legal regulation of this phenomenon at european level. secondly, it is a pity that the european commission's proposals in this area, revised by the european parliament back in 2002, had to wait until june 2008, i.e. for more than six years, for the council of the european union to reach an agreement on this matter. in particular, the solutions proposed in the draft directive on equal treatment of temporary workers with other workers in terms of their status and safety, and respect for social standards in companies on equal treatment in terms of remuneration and working conditions for temporary workers and other employees of companies, should be supported.
we've been discussing a very important topic. i know how many concerns there are about the condition and situation of the temporary workers. i mean, the formal and legal aspects, as well as the terms of employment. this is particularly evident in the recruitment of a large proportion of people from the new member states, who, due to high unemployment, accept any offer, both at home and abroad. the rules and conditions of work cannot be determined by the situation on the labour market, by the availability of work. i stress that they should meet the applicable requirements and standards of work. this concerns safety, social conditions, insurance and salary.
although we live in a time when borders are disappearing, our citizens are free to move and marry, we have not yet been able to create facilities for those who have decided to separate. an example of the problems associated with the lack of uniformity of divorce law in europe is the case of polish-german marriages. since 1990, more than 100,000 such couples have been legalised. many of them have not stood the test of time. last year, poles who lost contact with their children because of the german office for children and youth were invited to the european parliament. allegations of kidnapping and the prohibition of the use of the polish language are just some of the humiliations faced by parents and their children. because the above-mentioned institution violates basic rights, even the polish association of parents against discrimination against children was founded in germany. if we were to introduce the proposed changes to the divorce law, we would help many of our citizens to end a certain stage of life in a civilized way and, above all, not to allow children to be separated from one of their parents.
it seems to me that there is no treaty competence anywhere to shape marriage and family law at eu, community level. i therefore believe that the commission's proposal is a typical example of a certain overactivity, which is completely unnecessary and which only confuses the real competences of the european union. i think it's a deliberate breakthrough in this area, to further work on marriage law and its harmonization. this is a completely unnecessary activity, because private international law, as it stands, is perfectly capable of dealing with the problems of marriage, as well as with divorce, which is carried out on an international scale.
v. president of the commission - madam president, i thank all those who spoke. i would like to tell mrs segelström that i have, of course, already started a dialogue with the swedish authorities. we have, however, great difficulty in understanding the positions of your country. as mrs gebhardt said, the real purpose of rome iii is to protect the weaker spouses when they enter into marriage contracts. it is really in this spirit, and it is true - perhaps we should continue our dialogue - that one finds it difficult to understand that, in the case of a couple of whom one is swedish, one must also be careful that in the absence of rules, well, it is the law of the strongest that prevails. that is where we have the difficulty in understanding. but once again we take note of your position and that of your swedish colleague. i would like to point out a few mistakes. we have no competence, some have said, it is a purely national competence. it is a paradox that we cannot have a national jurisdiction which applies to two nationals, one of whom belongs to the national state and the other to another state. it is logical that the european union should try to organise things a bit, especially since, contrary to what has been said, private international law does not provide any real answers to this type of problem and we have an area of free movement and this area of free movement will naturally pose more and more problems. the commission has taken up this matter, as has parliament, not out of a kind of sickness to take up any problem, but to meet the expectations of a growing number of couples who do not want to find themselves, in the event of disagreement, in the event of disunion, in a very conflicting situation. that's the problem! so, of course, i cannot let it be said that the council has refused. he didn't say no, he said he had a different opinion. but there are still nine member states which are asking for enhanced cooperation. that's what i wanted to say in closing. i would remind you that rome iii contains an anti-discrimination clause which makes it possible to exclude foreign laws which would not guarantee equality between spouses, that is clear. it is not about sharia, it is about the principle of equality between men and women, and the text, by giving priority to the law of habitual residence, will promote the integration of women living on our european soil. they will be able to ask the judge to apply european law to them if this is more in line with equal rights. i think that's what we should be looking at. however, this debate was interesting and i thank all the speakers, and i also thank mrs gebhardt and president deprez for taking this opportunity, on the eve of a further consultation of the member states, to find out whether we are committed to enhanced cooperation. this debate is timely and i am very grateful to the european parliament, which i understand is still very keen to see this process moving forward, taking all the necessary precautions to achieve the widest possible consensus. thank you to parliament.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. with the increasing mobility of the population, the number of international marriages and divorces is increasing. the problem often arises as to which law applies to couples from different eu countries or when one of them is from a member state and the other is not. there is therefore an urgent need to harmonise the rules on international marriages in order to prevent situations of discrimination during the divorce procedure. as regards the choice of court, it should be based on the access of both spouses to full information on the most important aspects of national and community law and of divorce and legal separation proceedings. the choice of court and the law applicable should not affect the rights and equal opportunities of either spouse. the choice of law must therefore be between the law of the place of the marriage, the law of the place where the spouses have resided for the last three years or the law of the country of origin. moreover, it seems appropriate to apply the 'law of the place of the court' where there is a risk of discrimination between one of the spouses. this is the case for women from third countries who do not recognise divorce and who, while living in an eu country, apply for divorce or separation. in such a situation, the interest of the individual in obtaining separation or divorce as an expression of personal autonomy should prevail over the application of national law.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by sophia in't veld, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and australia on the processing and transfer of european union-sourced passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the australian customs service [2008/2187ini] (a6-0403/2008) and the oral question to the commission on the european union and pnr data by sophia in't veld, martin roure, philippa bradbour, sylvia-ivonne kaufmann, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o100/2008 b6-047/2008).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a strong indictment. i do not know if i will be able to answer all these questions, but first i would like to thank you, mrs int veld, for giving us the opportunity to talk first of all about the pnr agreement between australia and the european union, which was concluded on 30 june. the agreement is the result of negotiations which began in march this year and were conducted by the slovenian presidency, assisted by the commission. the agreement is valid for a period of seven years. it is intended to provide legal certainty for air carriers and reservation systems within the european union regarding the transfer of pnr data to australian customs, in accordance with union data protection law. the agreement contains important commitments to address data protection concerns, the right of individuals to access personal information stored under the agreement, the right of individuals, regardless of their nationality, to complain to the australian privacy commissioner about the way their data is processed. parliament has always favoured the transfer of pnr data on the basis of a 'push' system. after the transition period, pnr data will only be transferred to australian customs on the basis of the 'push' system. in other words, the australian customs service will not be allowed to access this data directly from the databases. the agreement also contains important safeguard clauses concerning the retention of pnr data, the transfer of such data to other agencies or to third countries and a clear reference to the purposes for which the data may be used. the draft recommendation states that the purpose of pnr data is not in line with article 8 of the european convention on human rights. i will answer that the agreement states that pnr data may be processed for three purposes. it specifies three objectives: the fight against terrorism and related offences, the fight against serious transnational crime, including organised crime, and, thirdly, to prevent persons from evading warrants and measures of provisional detention issued against them for the same offences. if you like, i think we can say in this case that the aims have been specified. the agreement also provides for the processing of pnr data on a case-by-case basis, where necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the data subject. for the sake of clarity, the agreement states that pnr data may be processed on a case-by-case basis where such processing is also required by a court order, for example where the processing would need to be carried out in order to verify that pnr data is processed in accordance with australian human rights law. i would like to say that in future i will be very attentive to the good involvement of parliament in such negotiations. i am well aware of the need to keep you well informed. however, it seems to me that a number of safeguards have been taken both as regards the purpose of the data, the use of the data and the retention of the data. i have tried to be objective, but i think that agreement was necessary. and since we have a partner who is attentive, who has an authority to ensure data protection, i still believe that we have reason to hope that this agreement will be implemented in full respect of data protection. i now come to the most important, if i may say so, oral question you have submitted, which of course raises the whole problem of the pnr. international terrorism and crime are a serious threat and it is true that the collection and analysis of pnr data has emerged as a useful tool in the fight against terrorism and crime. pnr data is indeed commercial information provided by the passenger to the carrier on a voluntary basis. this is information that is collected by carriers to implement their reservation systems. recently, some countries have begun to require carriers to provide them with pnr data for use in preventing and combating terrorism and serious crime, such as human trafficking and drug trafficking. these countries include the united states, canada, the united kingdom, australia, new zealand and south korea. this is the case for a number of third countries - not the uk - which have begun to require carriers to provide them with pnr data. some member states are initiating legislative processes along the same lines or are considering the possibility of initiating a legislative process france, denmark, sweden and belgium. several other countries have begun to consider the idea of using pnr data. but we're still in the early stages. it should be borne in mind that the pnr is simply a tool to be used by law enforcement authorities with other tools and information, because the question you have raised as to what the real utility of such use is, can only be assessed to the extent that the police authorities do not use the pnr alone but use the pnr with other instruments. of course, it is much more difficult to see exactly what the usefulness of pnr data is. nevertheless, some countries that have used pnr data seem to have really demonstrated that pnr is a useful tool in the fight against terrorism and crime. the pnr systems have been evaluated by the authorities of each country. the results of such evaluations are generally positive and confirm the effectiveness of the use of pnr systems. in preparing its proposal on the european pnr, the commission has been in close contact with the police authorities of the member states. and the commission has obviously been quite convinced by the evidence provided by the member states. most of the evidence is from confidential information and cannot be shared in an open setting. parliament held a hearing on the pnr during which four member states and three third countries presented their use of the pnr and reported on their success. but given the confidential and sensitive nature of this information, the hearing was held in camera. i would like to say a few words about automated methods of analysis because this is a real question. it is true that pnr is normally analysed automatically on the basis of risk indicators, but i would like to emphasise this point: the commission wants a guarantee that such an automated analysis will never lead to a decision which directly affects the individual. the result of the automated analysis must always be re-analysed manually by a specialised officer. the commission proposal suggests that pnr data be used to prevent and combat terrorism and organised crime, including - as you have acknowledged - drug trafficking, human trafficking. i would add that the pnr could be useful in the fight against other serious crimes, which do not fall under the category of organised crime. however, we have limited the proposal to organized crime for reasons of proportionality. some member states consider that pnr can generally be useful for combating illegal immigration, supporting public health and aviation safety. in the fight against illegal immigration, the pnr would be useful because it is true that it has data much faster than the advance passenger information data. in aviation security, pnr could be useful if the pnr system gives the possibility to refuse boarding to a potential terrorist or criminal, but the commission proposal does not give such powers. in public health matters, the pnr could be useful in the prevention of potentially epidemic diseases. if a passenger discovers that he or she has a potentially epidemic disease, the pnr can be used to communicate with other passengers on the same flight and advise them accordingly. but the commission proposal did not go as far as that because the proportionality was not demonstrated. i am sorry to disagree with you entirely, but it seems to me that the aims described in the proposal are sufficiently precise to provide an otherwise desirable legal certainty. you also mentioned subsidiarity and asked whether there was a need for an initiative by the european union. the commission considers this proposal of the european union to be necessary. three member states have already enacted national legislation on pnr, several other member states already use pnr in other ways. a comparison of the systems shows a great deal of divergence in terms of both the obligations imposed on the carriers and the purposes. such differences complicate the lives of passengers and of course cause problems for carriers. the proposal therefore aims to harmonise the obligations of carriers and to provide uniform rules for member states using pnr, and also, at the same time, to oblige them to respect our data protection mechanisms. the proposal will also allow for more effective cooperation between police forces. above all, the commission believes that international terrorism and crime are serious threats in our time, and that measures must be taken to deal with these problems, while respecting human rights and fundamental rights. you also mentioned the choice of a decentralised architecture for data collection, saying: "but, for once, by choosing a decentralised system, do we not lose a right of view?" the commission has examined the alternative between a centralised system and a decentralised architecture and, during the consultations with the member states, it has become clear that the processing of pnr requires the use of highly sensitive information from intelligence. so, of course, the member states did not feel ready to share such information with a central european pnr unit. it is true that a centralised system would be cheaper, would have some advantages, but we have chosen the alternative of a decentralised architecture out of political realism. from the data protection point of view, the decentralised option may also allow each member state to establish clear safeguards for access to and exchange of data. finally, mr president, i would like to conclude by apologizing for the length of the debate, which is important, on the question of democratic control by the european parliament and the national parliaments. the commission notes, of course, that its proposal will be adopted in accordance with a consultation procedure. the commission wants to be in close contact with you, with parliament. national parliaments will be heavily involved in the process as the proposal is or will be examined in most national parliaments. data protection authorities will be involved in the pnr system and will be responsible for the independent control of the systems. that is why, madam rapporteur, mrs sophie in 't veld, i recognize that your objections are serious. i tried to answer them honestly. i think, however, that this european framework is useful if we do not want each member state to embark on a totally different approach to pnr in this area, and certainly with the risk of not complying with a number of data protection rules. as regards the usefulness, it is true that we must specify the uses, we must be very careful about the proper use of this data, but it is true that in the fight against organized crime we need to be so much more efficient that i tend to think that an additional means is not worth neglecting. i will say this very simply in response to your questions, which i have listened to very carefully.
thank you very much for the comprehensive explanation and the rapporteur's introduction. i would like to inform the rapporteur that the agenda is decided by the european parliament, but that it is proposed by the conference of presidents. the decision on which item is to be placed shall also specify whether or not a representative of the council is to be present. there was no initiative at the conference of presidents to have this item on the agenda on any other day than monday, and as a rule on mondays the council representative does not take part in our discussions. so if you have any comments on this, please refer them to the chairman of your group, who could have initiated this matter, but did not. the council is therefore not present today, and this is not a sign of disrespect for the european parliament, but is due to procedural reasons.
thank you very much. thank you. i take note of your dissatisfaction, but please address it to the chairman of your group, who could have caused this item to be discussed when the council representative is present at the european parliament. i didn't ask the member anything, but i understand you've expressed your concern.
i'm not going to let you do this. i welcome this opportunity to discuss with you, although you are no longer transport commissioner, but i have a grateful memory of this period of cooperation. but speaking of data exchange, i also remember our discussions back then in the transport committee on such elements as passenger safety, protecting personal data from falling into the wrong hands. these are the key issues. therefore, the sharing of data, the circumstances and recipients of this collection, the sharing rules and the purposes, should, in my view, be central to this agreement. i'm not going to let you do this. we have subtleties in our cooperation with the united states, it's true, we know how important the united states is, but please know that we europeans often feel a certain discomfort at airports and we should bear that in mind. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank all the members who have spoken and i can assure you that i shall be present at the council meeting this week, where i shall report on the observations made. i would first like to point out that we believe that the usefulness of the pnr cannot be overlooked in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. a number of you have honestly acknowledged that. so we cannot do without this pnr, and i have to tell you that the commissioner who is in charge of fighting organised crime is not prepared to do without useful means. we must make good use of it, and i agree with you on that: purpose and proportionality. it is a question of sticking to the purpose and, as mrs in 't veld has said, the purpose must be specified and proportionality must be guaranteed. i would like to reply to mr lambrinidis on a specific point, which he made quite forcefully: in the us/europe agreement, the aim is terrorism and crime. point to the line. the first point, therefore, is proportionality and purpose. i was very sensitive to what many of you said, mrs ludford, about the need not to keep data once it has been used for the purpose for which it was collected. you are right on this point, we must avoid any storage which may then be used for purposes which are not acceptable in the light of our fundamental rights. i now turn to democratic control, first of all in the negotiations with third countries. it should be clear that articles 24 and 38 of the treaty on european union state that in international negotiations the presidency will conduct the negotiations with the assistance, where appropriate, of the commission. article 24 does not require the presidency to inform or consult parliament, so it is the presidency's responsibility to inform parliament, where appropriate, of the state of negotiations. that said, the commission, after consulting the presidency, and if an appropriate opportunity arises, may keep parliament informed of developments in such cases. i can assure you that at the moment no other third country has asked for a pnr negotiation, so things are clear. if that were the case, as i enter into new negotiations as the new commissioner in this area, i will be very careful to ask the presidency to allow me to keep your committee responsible informed of the state of the negotiations. i'm willing to take the commitment in front of you. thirdly - and mr weber has just mentioned this - 27 national systems yes, but national systems which are not too different and the national parliaments have been consulted on this! i know that the national parliaments have had the opportunity to express their views and to send us their comments. i am well aware, mr president, that i cannot answer all the comments, but a number of justified comments will be taken into account. what i believe, if you will, is that we cannot - and i really interpret the spirit of the debate - deprive ourselves of a means if that means can be useful. i'm told that this efficacy has not been demonstrated. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i remain convinced that in the fight against organised crime it can be very useful. however, the objectives must be respected. we must avoid storage and therefore require fairly strict control. that is why, in my view, we must involve - as i said at the end - all the data protection agencies. i attended a meeting on data protection on thursday, organized by most of the bodies responsible for data protection in europe, and i nevertheless felt that there was now a growing concern in the member states to entrust the protection of data to independent authorities who are really likely to be heard. so that is what i wanted to say at the end of a debate which has been extremely interesting and useful to me and which i will be reporting to the member states and their ministers. i'll take the hit.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 october 2008.
the next item is the report by marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme of actions to improve quality in higher education and to promote intercultural understanding through cooperation with third countries (erasmus mundus) (2009-2013) (com2007) 0395 c6-0228/2007 2007/0145) cod) (a6-0294/2008).
youth exchanges are one of the best projects of the union, the best use of resources, a real building of cooperation in the world. speaking of the second edition of erasmus mundur, i would like to draw attention to the issue of european travel to third world countries and the balkan countries. i think that in addition to the proposed increase in scholarships, they should also be encouraged to go to those regions. studying in such unpopular places would help those leaving to understand the local tradition, culture and politics. they would open up a way to learn about distant lands and peoples whose knowledge is generally fragmentary and based on often negative stereotypes. in my opinion, we should place particular emphasis on developing youth exchanges with belarus, ukraine and georgia. by studying in our universities, students from these countries would have a great opportunity to develop by western standards, to look at the way our democracy works, and to be able to model for them. the european union is very much committed to supporting pro-western politicians from these regions. today's students can be the future elite, who can use the experience they gain from our universities to influence change within their countries.
mr. chairman, please! europe needs many excellent specialists, scientists, and practitioners. it is with great pleasure that i welcome the next phase of the erasmus mundus programme, which can make this possible. and this is probably the last one, if you look at the rankings of european universities against the world's universities. unfortunately, they are not as well represented and not as prominent as they were a dozen or so years ago. i would like to draw attention to certain legal aspects of the erasmus mundus programme, because in some member states dual degrees are not legally recognised. it will therefore be necessary to adapt national law to allow this type of activity. and the other thing that's really important, i think we should also control who's using this program. we have students coming from third countries, and some of them are still undemocratic countries. i have information that the best are not leaving belarus, only those who are supported by the dictatorship of president lukashenko and the local kgb.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. as an mep and a long-time academic teacher who has experienced the benefits of university-student contact on many occasions, i fully support the report presented and sympathize with the rapporteur's theses. the eu-initiated student exchange has now reached a remarkable level of development and has become the best example of transnational cooperation, which is highly effective. more than a million students have already taken advantage of the opportunity to study in another european country. erasmus mundus, as the new student mobility and academic cooperation programme, will continue to offer the opportunity to study in european countries to non-eu nationals. the programme also allows european students to benefit from the experience of partner universities around the world. i believe that the involvement of the european parliament, which is the only democratically elected eu institution, supports this programme and guarantees it additional publicity in the member states, university towns and universities concerned. i therefore support all ideas and proposals to remove the administrative barriers and obstacles which make the programme less accessible and may discourage potentially interested candidates from participating. i would particularly like to call for the introduction of maximum visa facilitation for participants in this programme. i'm sure it's worth doing. the possibility of reaching a wide range of students is the best investment and hidden intellectual capital that europe will always be able to count on.
the next item is the report by mrs roberta angelilli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual community programme on the protection of children using the internet and other communication technologies (com (2008) 106 - c6-0092/2008 - 2008/0047 (cod)) (a6-0404/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the freedom to use mobile phones, the internet and other communication technologies, which is so helpful for adults because of their immaturity and lack of experience, can be a threat to children. the internet is so useful to us for a number of reasons. networks are being set up to share pedophilia and pornography and attempts are being made to contact minors. mobile telephony is also used for this purpose. but it's not just the extreme actions that can be harmful. advertising of unhealthy foods to children on television and the internet has a negative impact on their health and can lead to conflicts within the family and negative eating patterns among peers. we talked about the problems of childhood obesity and overweight recently. spending many hours a day, on average three hours, but often and longer, in front of a computer or tv screen restricts a child's physical activity and does not promote proper physical development. the promotion of aggressive behavior in television programs is damaging to a child's psyche. this is why it is so important to establish a programme for the responsible use of new communication technologies by children and young people. i congratulate the rapporteur and the european commission on their approach to this issue.
mr. chairman, please! thank you, congresswoman angelilli, for taking up this important subject. this is a really good report. but it would be better if we didn't have to debate this issue. it would be better if there were no people, i don't hesitate to say, bad people who want to depraved and exploit children for unworthy purposes. we say children are our treasure, a treasure that must be protected from evildoers. this is how i see the protection of children through the use of modern information technologies, especially the internet. some of them spend several hours a day surfing the internet. these technologies are tools of modern man. they allow better communication between people, many facilitations in daily life, in administration, in science, in access to culture, knowledge, etc. these are bright spots that need to be supported and developed. sadly, there is a dark side to the internet and modern communication technologies, which are used to promote harmful material - pornography, drug addiction, satanism, immoral lifestyles, gambling, and so forth. the internet is a hotbed of pedophiles. to use an analogy, the internet is like a knife, you need it to cut bread, but like a knife, it can hurt a child's psyche through bad content. the most important thing i think is: first, to create a system to detect the perpetrators of such actions and to strictly enforce the law. secondly, to increase awareness among children, parents, educators, catechists, youth organizations, scouting, for example, of the dangers of the internet, mobile telephony, television, video games. third, to improve cooperation between the supervisory and law enforcement authorities dealing with these issues, both in the european union and worldwide, as servers with harmful content can be located in any country. and finally, our actions must be systematic, preventive, and punitive in the case of criminals.
member of the commission. − mr president, i fully agree with everything that has been said in the house and i thank the parliamentarians not only for having this debate but also for taking this debate to their voters and to the people in the areas where they are active, because i believe that the basic problem is that adults do not know enough. children often know how to handle the new technologies very well, and it is the first time in the history of mankind that children know more than parents, educators and adults. so here we really have to empower parents, educators and adults and i believe that this is a shared responsibility of all parts of society, not only of politicians but also of the ngos, and the isps most of all. i am also grateful that, for instance, the mobile phone industry has signed a memorandum of understanding in order themselves to inform parents and to prevent harmful content from being on the 3g phones. the network of hotlines, which we have established by our safer internet programme, is very important and it is working perfectly well in most member states. in reply to the question from a hungarian parliamentarian, the hungarian hotline will restart in 2009. there are only two member states that do not yet have a hotline and one member state that leaves these problems to the police forces. therefore, we can already say that today the safer internet programme has had a very positive effect. personally, i would wish that the hotlines were better known: they are well known in some countries but not in all. so, as members of parliament, you could help to make those hotlines more known through all kinds of activities. i would really thank you for this and i think that both parents and children would also thank you for this. there were some questions on the eu criminal procedures. here i have to tell you that it would be very good if the convention on cybercrime were ratified by all member states. i can also tell you that the interior and justice ministers under the leadership of my friend, commissioner barrot, are working on all these questions, including the issue of grooming, on which mr barrot will present a proposal shortly. i can also assure you that the international cooperation of police and law enforcement is well under way. so things are moving in the right direction here. concerning the question about filters for unwanted content, here again it is a question of informing parents. most parents do not know that filters exist and that they have the possibility to use these filters. that is why i have asked the isps when making contracts with parents to really inform them about the possibilities they have for preventing this content from reaching their children. that concerns very young children. in the case of adolescents, of course we have to empower the children themselves, and that is why i believe that informing them that they can stop themselves falling into the trap is the best way, because we cannot put a policeman behind each child – that is really not possible. but children are very capable of understanding what is positive content and what is non-positive content. so i believe that with the safer internet programme we have to empower the children themselves, beyond empowering the parents and the educators. that will be our duty during the next months and years and, if everybody participates in that, it would be the solution to the problem. i thank the rapporteur and all the parliamentarians who are helping to make the internet a safe place for our children.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 22 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. a programme to protect children using the internet and new technologies is one of the basic forms of child protection, both because of the spread of technology and the increase in computer literacy. children are therefore now exposed to risks related to illegal content and inappropriate behaviour such as harassment, child pornography, harassment, online seduction, etc. according to the data, more than 70% of young people aged 12 to 15 use the internet for about 3 hours a day and unfortunately most of them have come across pornographic images. also alarming is the increase in the number of internet sites containing pornographic material and the decline in the average age of children who are victims of this practice. increasing children's safety online can only be achieved through cooperation at many levels. children, their parents, schools, telecommunications operators, internet service providers and other institutions should be involved in this ambitious project. hotlines for the collection of reports on illegal content should play an important role in the fight against harmful behaviour online. children should be informed about how to avoid dangerous online behaviour and parents and teachers should be involved in a computer education campaign to reduce the generation gap in new technologies and effectively combat the threat.
in writing. in general, the younger generation is more computer literate than the older generation. the internet leaves no secrets for children and young people, and they often know more about how the internet works than their parents. and they are also the most vulnerable to online psychological abuse. according to research conducted by the "child online" campaign, one in two polish internet users has been the target of abuse, humiliation and threats online. when you include children, the situation becomes even more serious. more than 70% of young internet users have encountered pornographic or erotic content, and more than half have encountered violent scenes. it should be noted that the vast majority of people have seen this type of site by chance, against their will. only 12% of children admitted to having searched for such sites. i am quoting all these figures to illustrate, in my own country, the danger facing our youngest citizens. i therefore believe that the proposed program to protect children is unquestionably worthy of being implemented.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on fisheries by mr niels buska on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 423/2004 as regards the recovery of cod stocks and amending regulation (eec) no 2847/93 (com ((2008) 0162 - c6-0183/2008 - 2008/0063 ((cns)) (a6-0340/2008).
mr. chairman, please! the council regulation is another attempt to strike a balance between the current state of knowledge on the actual size of the stocks and the natural urge to fulfil the duties of the european fisheries manager. the rapporteur is reading a new quality in this age-old dilemma. he sees a clear dissonance between the noble intention to protect resources and the concrete possibilities of recognizing their size. this time, the authors of the regulation are more explicit than ever in their admission to the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries that there is still a lack of reliable information to give a fully understandable opinion on the tac for fishermen. at the same time, however, the eu institutions, presumably to avoid the error of omission, recommend that rules be established to ensure consistent tacs, even in the case of 'insufficient data'. for fishermen awaiting a review of the fishing rules, this attitude is an example of excessive caution, which should not be a condition for a rational fisheries policy. i'm trying to understand this particular methodology of the fishery magistrates. however, i cannot ignore the rapporteur's warning about the social and economic consequences of the increasing number of fishing restrictions, the pesky, formalized restrictions on fishermen, and the fact that these are increasingly helping scientists to repair the actual state of marine biomass. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the fisheries sector, which will be based on the principle of 'one fisherman, one fisherman, one fisherman'.
in my view, mr busk's proposed amendments to the so-called cod recovery plan are essential to restoring the species to its former status. the protection of cod stocks is the greatest challenge facing our common fisheries policy. we must not forget that, alongside sprat and herring, this is the species most frequently caught by the european union's fishing fleets. but in the world's fisheries, it's second. in addition to its vital role, cod is also essential for the proper functioning of the ecosystem. the seaweed is therefore a natural deterrent to algal blooms, including in the baltic. therefore, the decline in the population of this important species is, alongside climate change, the main cause of the profound changes in the marine ecosystems of the north atlantic. finally, i would like to make a statement on the position of polish fishermen, who have been the biggest victims of the incorrect and unfair cod fishing policy. as you know, vessels flying the flag of poland were restricted and then prohibited from fishing this species. this has not only reduced the livelihood of fishermen, but also raised the spectre of bankruptcy for the polish processing sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. research that will help us to know the actual state of cod stocks, and that in turn will allow us to have a real fisheries policy. thank you, sir.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the european commission and the governments of the member states are understandably concerned about the critical state of cod stocks in the european community's marine waters. however, i am concerned that in their draft legislation and decisions, the eu institutions refer to research carried out by various research institutes funded by the ec, and rarely to research by independent scientists. the controversy also concerns council regulations (ec) no 812/2004 and (ec) no 2187/2005 banning the use of driftnets in the eu. as is apparent from the meeting with dg mare which i organised a month ago, the commission seems to be ignoring all the questions put to it on this subject, failing to give concrete answers and to fulfil its obligations under the rules laid down by the above regulations on the validation of the prohibitions. for cod, however, there are no accurate statistics on catches by boats of less than 8 metres and no comparison of the volume of fishery products produced with the declared catches in individual eu countries. there is a lack of specific information and plans from the institutions, and the excessive generalizations in the studies further contribute to the escalation of the controversy. fishing, because of its socio-economic background, is increasingly the cause of demonstrations and protests by fishermen, among others in poland. by limiting fishing quotas and the use of driftnets, among other things, many families are deprived of their only source of income.
the next item is the report by mr pedro guerreira, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 639/2004 on the management of fishing fleets registered in the community's outermost regions (com (2008) 0444 - c6-0298/2008 - 2008/0138 (cns)) (a6-0388/2008).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is a brief presentation of the report by anders wijkman on behalf of the committee on development on the creation of a global climate change alliance between the european union and the poorest developing countries most vulnerable to climate change (2008/2131 (ini)) (a6-0366/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome mr wijkman’s report and thank him for his continuing support for the global climate change alliance. overall we believe that the report highlights the right issues and identifies the key challenges the international community currently faces in providing support to climate change mitigation and adaptation in developing countries. we appreciate, in particular, the report’s proposals, firstly to develop the global climate change alliance into a clearing house for member state initiatives. we agree that current efforts to assist developing countries in this important area are fragmented and not well coordinated, and do not correspond to the paris principles on aid effectiveness, to which all eu member states have signed up. secondly, the proposal to set a long-term financing goal for the gcca. it is pivotal, however, that eu member states fully align themselves to this initiative and make increased oda commitments and innovative sources of financing available for the gcca. the financing goal set by the european commission alone would be meaningless. finally, the proposal to spend part of the expected revenues from auctioning emission rights within the eu emissions trading scheme on funding for the gcca and other climate change measures in developing countries. we need – particularly in the current context – continued european parliament support in the realisation of these proposals, in particular through engagement with decision-makers at member state level. the report highlights a number of points for further clarification by the commission, who would respond, in particular, on the distinct added value of the gcca. overall the gcca is intended as a key component of the european union’s climate change policy. traditionally, this policy has been focused on mitigation inside and outside the union. the green paper/white paper process now deals primarily with adaptation inside the union. the gcca represents the external dimension of our adaptation efforts. besides, it is important to underline the fact that the international community needs to arrive at the conclusion of a global climate change agreement at copenhagen in december 2009, so as to avoid a gap between the kyoto protocol and the follow-up agreement. developing countries will only enter such an agreement if adaptation is specifically considered. the european union must also assume its leadership role in this context, and the gcca is a vehicle to demonstrate our commitment. mr wijkman’s report could have made stronger reference to this political imperative. furthermore, the european union is the largest provider of development assistance. climate change, clearly, is a threat to development. the gcca aims at placing climate change adaptation firmly within eu development policy. finally, the gcca would like to employ different means in developing climate-related assistance, away from project funding and towards programme-based approaches. we believe that resilience to climate change can only be built effectively in this way. the commission has already entered into the initial implementation stage of the global climate change alliance. in doing so, it is paying due attention to the report’s proposals, in particular as regards close involvement of partner country representatives and close coordination with other, related bi- and multiannual, multilateral initiatives. finally, the commission recognises the need for better mainstreaming of climate change into its own aid programmes, in close coordination with the partner countries and development partners at country level. ongoing work at the oecd on the development of guidelines for mainstreaming adaptation into development cooperation will assist us in these efforts.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is a brief presentation of the report by jean marie beaupuy on behalf of the committee on regional development on governance and partnership at national and regional level and the basis for regional policy projects (2008/2064 (ini)) (a6-0356/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mr beaupuy for his report on governance and partnership in the fields of regional policy, given that partnership and governance are, indeed, key principles of cohesion policy. mr beaupuy’s report makes many recommendations and advocates, in particular, the need to strengthen the integrated approach, the need for more decentralisation of the cohesion policy and the need for full recognition and association of the various partners in the programmes of regional policy, in particular the local and urban authorities. the report also proposes the development of tools to strengthen partnership and new governance. i can assure mr beaupuy that the main messages of his report are in line with what the commission is defending and promoting. practice has shown that the ability to establish genuine partnerships is often a condition of the success and effectiveness of the programmes supported by structural and cohesion funds. that is the reason why this principle has been maintained and strengthened in each programming period by expanding the composition of such a partnership and extending the range of its scope. thanks to the combined efforts of the commission and parliament and to the pressures of civil society, the 2006 regulations for the current period went a step further and included, explicitly and for the first time, new partners from civil society. the delivery mechanisms were discussed during the negotiations of each national strategic reference framework and operational programme for the period 2007-2013, and the commission has tried to improve it in order to make it less institutional. there are still important variations between the member states and regions, but on the whole there have been real improvements in the application of the partnership principle. in poland, for instance, the dialogue with civil society and, especially, with ngos has been pushed forward thanks to the cohesion policy requirements. over time, cohesion policy has developed a powerful multilateral governance system involving a large number of partners, both at a vertical and a horizontal level. since there is no ‘one size fits all’ recipe, greater involvement of the regional and local authorities – as well as all relevant stakeholders – in the design, implementation and evaluation of the interventions according to a scheme adapted to the team and, of course, to the region is essential to ensure the success of the policy. nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that there is still a lot to be done in order to have real and active partnership and governance, not only in the preparation and negotiation process but also in the other phases of the life of the operational programmes, that is: implementation, monitoring and evaluation. i can inform mr beaupuy that, in order to have a clearer view of the current situation and practices, commissioner hübner’s services are presently working on a study of regional governance in the context of globalisation. it should provide us with substantial information as to whether a guide, as requested by mr beaupuy in his report, would be helpful on the subject. the commission is also convinced that cohesion policy must be simplified, must bring added value for regional development and, at the same time, must be closer to the european citizen. the commission agrees that it is necessary to offer an integrated approach of the different sectoral policies on a given territory so as to achieve better results. we should deepen our reflection on the way the cohesion funds are currently implemented and coordinated on the one hand and, on the other hand, on the way they could be articulated for the next programming period after 2013 in order to keep a real coherent strategic development at regional level. this is actually a concern expressed in many contributions received in the framework of our public consultations on the future of the policy. among the tools mentioned in the report to improve the new governance, there is the suggestion of the creation of an erasmus of local representatives. the commission will do its best to implement this interesting idea, although it might be difficult to do so if it is approved as a pilot project by the budget authority. beyond the rationale of cohesion policy which is, and should remain, a central pillar for achieving the new sustainable development goals, and in order to help regions to face forthcoming global challenges which will impact more and more on their development, the commission believes we should all keep on strengthening the delivery mechanisms of cohesion policy built upon the principles of an integrated approach, partnership and multilateral governance. the commission is convinced that mr beaupuy’s report and parliament’s support will help a lot to improve the situation.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the principle of partnership at all levels of governance must not be forgotten in the implementation of regional policy. this is particularly important from the point of view of efficiency. national and regional authorities must seek to involve, engage and then control the use of structural funds if they are to achieve full mobilisation of the population. the lack of identification with the region's objectives always leads to objections and blockages, and consequently to many delays. a genuine partnership, not a sham one, is also essential from the point of view of the european community, because only through it can the essence of the european union's activities reach the citizens. partnership is necessary, but it also costs money and it is therefore necessary to allocate 2-3% of the structural funds to this purpose. the current voluntary principle is not working. if the regions don't have to spend money on meetings, workshops or the implementation evaluation process, they don't spend it. and the partnership principle usually boils down to sending the project by post, sometimes with a weekly comment period. i think that much more attention should be paid to this problem if we want europe to become a community of active, aware and engaged citizens.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report drawn up by mr manuel medina ortega on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on 'better lawmaking 2006' under article 9 of the protocol on the application of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality (2008/2045 (ini)) (a6-0355/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, better regulation is not an end in itself. it is about benefiting citizens and businesses by simplifying and improving the regulatory environment in europe. the commission therefore welcomes the present report by mr medina ortega on better lawmaking. it maintains the focus on the better regulation agenda in line with previous similar initiatives taken last year by the european parliament. i have also noted the very insightful observations just made by mr medina ortega. i would now like to recall the important steps already taken and the work which is ongoing to respond to the requests and concerns that are expressed by the european parliament on better regulation. better regulation is a top priority for this and we have made significant progress in the years of impact assessment, simplification and the reduction of administrative burdens. the impact assessment board that president barroso put in place at the end of 2006 is having a real impact on the quality of our work. we are nevertheless aware that we must constantly strive to improve the system. many of the improvements we want to make will be taken forward on the basis of our revised guidelines on impact assessments. this revision is based on the experience of the iab, an external evaluation and then a consultation of the institutions, stakeholders and interested parties. we are reinforcing guidance on issues such as subsidiarity, national and regional impacts and specific impacts such as on smes and consumers. we are also reviewing with council and parliament the common approach to impact assessment with the aim of identifying where progress can be made. work at technical level has started, and we hope to achieve some concrete results at least by sharing common experiences within the three institutions by the end of the year. on simplification, the commission has adopted 119 proposals out of 162 since the launch of the 2005-2009 programmes. one key challenge is to ensure that simplification proposals pending in council and parliament are adopted rapidly. on administrative burdens, the mapping exercise of the main eu information obligations which is being carried out for the commission by an external consortium has been completed and the costing of these obligations will be finished by the end of the year. in the january strategic review we intend to report on progress and set out a clear road map on how the ambitious 25% reduction target will be achieved by 2010-2012. finally, with regard to interinstitutional cooperation on better law making, we must acknowledge that the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking in force since december 2003 has not been easy to implement. this should not discourage us from continuing our dialogue. on the contrary, the commission recently expressed the view that it is time to give more political tenor to the discussions on better regulation issues in general. i have encouraged parliament to convene an interinstitutional exchange of views on better regulation in the near future at the highest political level, be it in the context of the high-level technical group for interinstitutional cooperation, the conference of presidents or the conference of committee chairs. in conclusion, i would like to stress that better regulation is a joint responsibility of all the european institutions and, indeed, of the member states. we can all do more and do better in improving the quality of our legislative proposals and of our overall regulatory framework.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report drawn up by ms joanna geringer de oedenberg on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on the monitoring of the application of community law - 24th annual report of the commission (2008/2046 (ini)) (a6-0363/2008).
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? the effectiveness of european union policies depends to a large extent on their implementation at national, regional and local level. therefore, compliance by member states with community law must be subject to strict control. the 24th annual report of the european parliament on this matter, which i have authored, showed that the number of infringement proceedings initiated by the commission in 2006 decreased slightly, but still exceeded the level of 2500 cases. it should also be noted that the number of non-compliance procedures in the enlarged union of 25 member states decreased by 16%, indicating better discipline in the notification of transposition measures by the member states. as in previous years, the complaints concerned mainly the poor functioning of the internal market, including the implementation of the principles of free movement of persons, services, goods and capital, and the violation of the rights conferred by european union citizenship, which in principle guarantees equal rights and opportunities for all citizens. the improvement of the existing working methods to improve the management of proceedings announced by the commission in its communication of 5 september 2007 was supported by a majority of the parliament. however, there is a concern that the new procedure for referring complaints received by the commission to the member state responsible in the first place for the incorrect application of community law may lead to a reduction in the commission's institutional responsibility as guardian of the treaties. it is therefore necessary that the commission submit to parliament a preliminary report on the results achieved in the first six months of the pilot project, which started on 15 april this year with the participation of 15 member states. moreover, the commission, often the ultimate institution to which citizens can report cases of misapplication of the law, should register as a complaint any correspondence potentially informing about cases of infringement of community law. as regards the current infringement procedure, the main problem is still the excessive length of time taken to deal with a complaint, on average 20.5 months. the commission should make every effort to reduce lengthy procedures and to find practical solutions by using, where possible, alternative methods such as solvit, which is still not sufficiently promoted. it is also concerned about the significant increase in cases of breaches resulting from non-compliance with the judgments of the european court of justice revised in 2006. this is often accompanied by a lack of cooperation between national courts and the court and by the non-use of the preliminary ruling mechanism under article 234 of the treaty, as a result of the still weak knowledge of community law in some member states. as regards interinstitutional cooperation, arrangements for monitoring the implementation of community law and close cooperation between the commission, the council, the european ombudsman and the competent committees of parliament should become the standard for ensuring effective intervention in all cases where a petitioner has lodged a well-founded complaint concerning an infringement of community law. given the continuing high annual rate of complaints lodged improperly, for example, with the committee on petitions or outside the remit of the institutions, which accounted for as much as 75% of the complaints received by the ombudsman in 2006, it is necessary to stress the urgent need to increase information activities to citizens in order to better direct complainants to the body with the best competence to deal with their cases, whether at national or european level. citizens' complaints are an indispensable source of information on their most pressing needs and should guide the commission in its legislative initiatives. in analysing the implementation of community law in 2006, i would particularly urge those countries which are most likely to benefit from the structural funds under the 2007-2013 financial framework to bring their national legislation into line with european standards, in particular in the field of environmental protection, in a timely and appropriate manner, in order to make effective use of the structural funds available and to accelerate the social and economic development of the regions. finally, i would like to express my regret that the ppe-de group in the legal affairs committee, in my report, has rejected important provisions concerning the lack of implementation of the directives on equal treatment for women and men in employment, education, promotion and social security, which still exists in many member states, in clear contradiction to the principle of equality, which should be a priority for all of us.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission greatly welcomes the general support from parliament for the commission’s approach set out in its 2007 communication ‘a europe of results: applying community law’ and thanks mrs geringer for her informative report. the commission attributes high importance to the correct application of community law. it figures in the priorities of the barroso commission and the commission is vigilant in exercising its role as guardian of the treaty. this is why the commission has made a major effort to improve its working methods for the benefit of citizens and businesses, as explained in the 2007 communication. these improvements include the introduction this year of more frequent decision-taking on infringement cases to avoid delays in the advancement of cases, and the introduction of the eu pilot project in april this year. within 15 member states this pilot project will test an improved method for problem solving and information provision to ensure quicker and better results for citizens and businesses. up-to-date factual information on the functioning of this eu pilot project will be sent to the rapporteur, but a full report will only be possible, as already promised, after one year, when sufficient experience will have been obtained for first conclusions to be drawn. we are also testing the use of officials in some representation offices in member states to follow up on questions relating to the application of community law to see how this might improve efficiency. this reflects the reality that all questions concerning the application of community law involve actions taken by member states. this work, therefore, requires the commission to work closely with member state authorities to try to find correct and quick solutions. a common interinstitutional understanding can also play a significant role in this important part of the better regulation agenda. it is in this context that i have offered to coordinate with the rapporteur future reviews of the application of the acquis in different areas to ensure up-to-date information. we are working to introduce the initiatives announced in the 2007 communication on increased transparency. we are finalising this year’s annual report in the form of a strategic evaluation of the current position, prioritisation of issues and a programme of actions in order to feed interinstitutional discussion. in closing, i would like to mention that mrs geringer’s report also supports common contact points to guide citizens. i can confirm that the commission is already working to this end. we will come forward with our evaluation and suggestions as soon as possible. you attach particular importance, mrs geringer, to monitoring of the implementation of the directives on equal treatment. i can reassure you that a full assessment has been made of member state transposition. over 40 infringement proceedings have been launched which are being actively pursued with a view to early results.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by georgios papastamkos on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs on the strategy for the future institutional settlement of regulatory agencies (2008/2103 (ini)) (a6-0354/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the positive stance taken by the rapporteur, mr papastamkos, and the responsible and associated committees towards the key elements put forward in the march communication, ‘european agencies: the way forward’. these are the moratorium on proposing new agencies, the upcoming evaluation of the agency system and the creation of an interinstitutional working group. as you know, we attach great importance to the relaunch of the interinstitutional dialogue on the role and place of agencies in european governance, a dialogue aimed at developing a coherent vision and a common approach vis-à-vis regulatory agencies the commission trusts that parliament will now be in a position to promptly mandate its representatives to the interinstitutional working group. we also count on a favourable response from the council in order to ensure timely progress on the follow-up to the commission’s communication. we are confident that the interinstitutional working group will be created before the end of the year. this group will be closely associated in the evaluation process that the commission is about to launch. before concluding, let me say that the commission has left open the question on the form that will be given to the final outcome of the interinstitutional dialogue in order not to pre-empt the discussions. it is up to the interinstitutional working group to decide what form it wishes to give to its conclusions. the conclusions, on the other hand, can be implemented in different ways – sometimes spreading best practices could be enough, and sometimes amendments to the agencies’ basic acts might be necessary. the cooperation between parliament and the commission in this field is exemplary and i am sure we will continue working on that basis.
that concludes the point of the proceedings. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 october 2008.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam members, allow me to begin by apologising for the short delay, as i was unable to estimate the traffic situation in time. ladies and gentlemen, the recent judgments of the court of justice in the viking, laval and rüffert cases have triggered a wide debate at eu level and in the member states on the protection of workers' rights in the context of increased globalisation and labour mobility. for the european labour market to function well, appropriate rules need to be established. the posting of workers directive is a key instrument to achieve this. i would point out that the purpose of that directive is to harmonise, on the one hand, the appropriate protection of workers temporarily posted to another member state and, on the other, the free movement of services in the internal market. the commission intends to ensure that the fundamental freedoms of the treaty are not incompatible with the protection of fundamental rights. the commission expressed its wish to open a debate with all interested parties in order to analyse together the consequences of the court's judgments. this debate is of the utmost importance, as it must clarify the legal situation and finally enable member states to introduce appropriate legislation. on 9 october 2008, the commission organised a forum on this subject, which was attended by all interested parties. this forum should become the starting point for the debate we so desperately need. the commission agrees that the increased mobility of workers in europe has brought new challenges to the functioning of labour markets and the regulation of working conditions. the commission believes that the social partners are best placed to assess these challenges and to suggest possible improvements. the commission therefore invited the european social partners to focus on the implications of increased mobility in europe and the judgments of the european court of justice. i am pleased that the european social partners have taken up this challenge. the commission will support their work as necessary. the commission notes that the member states most affected by the court's judgments are currently implementing legislation that ensures compliance with the court's case-law. the commission cannot agree with the proposal that the posting of workers directive should also refer to freedom of movement. such an extension would necessarily lead to confusion as to the scope of the directive, since it would blur the distinction between two different categories of workers, namely posted workers and migrant workers. i emphasize posted workers and migrant workers, that's the difference, of course. the commission agrees with parliament on the need to improve the implementation and enforcement of the posting of workers directive. and in this context, let me recall that the commission adopted a recommendation on enhanced administrative cooperation in april 2008, calling on member states to remedy existing shortcomings. the commission will further promote increased cooperation by setting up a committee of experts from the member states in the future. the commission also believes that the proposed treaty of lisbon will bring about a very substantial strengthening of social rights, inter alia through a new social clause which should take social issues into account in all other european union policies, and also by introducing a legally binding reference to the charter of fundamental rights.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - madam president! - what are you doing? the report we are debating today has made the current directive on the posting of workers a challenge to collective agreements. i, with this attitude, which i have always emphasized very strongly, cannot agree. i am aware that the ets rulings may have caused dissatisfaction in some member states, but they strike a balance between all the aims of the directive, namely freedom to provide services, respect for workers' rights and the observance of the principles of fair competition. i would like to stress that maintaining this balance is our top priority. we should not question the wording of the directive itself, but rather focus on the poor state of implementation by the member states, because this is the main problem in applying it correctly. this is why we need, first and foremost, a thorough analysis at member state level, which will allow us to assess the problems arising from the judgments and the possible challenges we face. i think that is why we must refrain at this stage from calling for a directive to be amended. let us not forget that the posting of workers is inextricably linked to the freedom to provide services, which is one of the fundamental principles of the european single market and should in no way be seen as a restriction on collective agreements.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. - regardless of your beliefs, i consider it unacceptable to criticise the judgment of the european court of justice, which is an independent and impartial institution, crucial to the functioning of the european union. we may not like the law and of course we have the power to change it, but i find it hard to understand the criticism of the court, which rules on the basis of the law in force. i would like to emphasize two important aspects of the subject we are discussing today. first, the judgments of the court of justice do not in any way affect the content of the freedom to conclude collective agreements. second, according to the court's interpretation, member states may not introduce minimum standards in matters other than those listed in the posting of workers directive. the court expressly recognises the right to take collective action as a fundamental right which forms part of the general principles of community law. at the same time, the principles of the free movement of services, like the other freedoms of the internal market, are an equally important foundation of european integration. what is the consequence of this report? the rapporteur calls for a revision of the posting of workers directive, arguing that the court's interpretation is not in line with the intention of the legislator. i completely disagree with that position.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. every year, around one million people in the european union are posted to work in a country other than the country of their employer. only a few cases in recent years have posed a problem in the interpretation of the provisions of the directive and the union law governing this issue, and these few cases have been the subject of interest to the european court of justice, which has ruled that, in general, the problem is not the content of the directive, but rather the lack of proper implementation of the directive in individual member states. what does that prove? well, it proves that the eu law that was created to regulate the issue of posting is correct, well-crafted. at most, there is a problem with its implementation in individual countries. of course, this does not mean that it is an ideal law. the current directive, however, protects the fundamental rights of workers by guaranteeing them a minimum level of both pay and occupational safety and health. secondly, and i want to emphasize this very clearly, it does not exclude the possibility of concluding collective agreements for more favourable working conditions than the minimum. at the same time, the directive strikes a very good balance between the freedom to provide services and the protection of the rights of workers who are posted to provide services in another country. that is why we agreed in the jan andersson report to invite the commission to look at the directive again. but we are absolutely opposed to the idea that this directive is wrong and that there is an urgent need for some radical change in european law on this issue.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i regret to say, with reference in particular to the ets judgments in laval, viking and others, that too often economic rights are given priority over fundamental rights and freedoms. a clear hierarchy of these rights and respect for the fact that people are more important than money requires that these rights be clearly identified. the laws of economic liberty cannot block the right of people to associate and defend their rights together. in particular, workers have the right to organise and to negotiate collectively working conditions. collective bargaining systems and the collective agreements resulting from them deserve recognition and support, since the consent of the responsible social partners guarantees social peace and the chance to implement the agreements reached. this belief is reflected in the conventions of the international labour organisation. the main challenge facing us today in the area of collective agreements is to take account of the guarantee of equal rights for domestic, migrant and posted workers. i congratulate the rapporteur!
madam president! in a few months' time, we will ask the citizens of the european union to elect their representatives to the european parliament again, and once again they will not know why they are doing this, what this parliament is for, and voter turnout will again be low. the debate today on the posting of workers directive and the judgment of the european court of justice shows that the european parliament is, among other things, there to protect citizens, sometimes also against the short-sighted, one-sided, in this case too liberal policies of their governments. today, the ets and the european parliament defend workers' rights more than the freedom of enterprise, and it is impossible to oppose the principle of equal treatment of workers throughout the union. we have the same prices in the shops and we demand the same pay for the same work throughout the union.
mr. president, i have to go. it's good that we gave ourselves more time to make a more balanced decision about reducing co2. the system proposed by the commission spreads the costs of introducing these restrictions very unevenly. countries with coal-fired power, often the poorest countries in the union, would incur costs in the billions of euros per year. it is already incomprehensible today for example for poles, who would feel these costs the most. let us remember that by introducing such a system as the only one in the world, and thereby weakening the foundations of our economy, europe will not be setting an example for anyone to follow. the financial crisis cannot be used as an excuse to forget georgia. let's remember that russia maintains more than three times more troops than on august 7 in the conflict areas, conducts a policy of facts made in the field of the international status of ossetia, does not implement the peace agreement. it is thus denying itself the right to be a partner of the european union. finally, one weakness: the more often you come to the european parliament, the less sure i am whether i prefer to listen to your wife or to you. i must say, i sometimes disagree with what you say, but the form is most commendable. you are bringing life to this room.
mr. president, i have to go. adam smith center expert robert gwiazdowski wrote that "monty duck's flying circus has returned from brussels, but it's unclear why it flew there". the polish taxpayer will pay for the president's transportation approximately 45 thousand euros. i have a question: why did you let in a politician who was not a member of the polish government delegation, who is not exactly known what he was doing there, and who is supported in poland to a large extent by extreme and even fanatical circles? besides, as far as i know, mr. kaczyński speaks only polish, he can't verbalize thoughts in a foreign language. so how did you talk to him? i wish i knew. could you tell us what lech kaczyński was doing at the european council summit and what you personally discussed with him?
madam president, mr minister, the european council devoted part of its conclusions to energy security, but this issue went unnoticed and was neglected in the debate. and it is more important now than ever! i agree with the council's conclusions, but the devil is in the details and it is precisely the details and the concrete that are lacking. i'll take two. first, the key issue: the union's relations with the producing countries and transit. the idea of intensifying our energy diplomacy is fully justified, but what is still lacking is the willingness of the member states to agree on the message to be sent to third countries and the coherence of our policies at national level with the common interest of the union. in short, we lack a common foreign policy and a common energy security policy. the minimum common denominator, which is the coordination of positions towards our suppliers and transit countries, is far from being reached and applied. so instead of speaking with one voice, it is the policy of 'every man for himself' that is in place, illustrated by a series of bilateral agreements that weaken our bargaining power and tarnish the image of our unity vis-à-vis the outside world. the second deficit is the deficit of the european projects. no mention is made of the oil and gas pipeline projects which are essential to our energy security and the fate of nabucco seems uncertain despite its designation as a 'priority project'. the lessons of the georgian crisis must also be drawn from the energy security situation and an effective mechanism must be established to protect the existing infrastructure in transit countries in situations of war or political instability. in conclusion, i would like to endorse the council's motto: responsibility and solidarity. action is still to be found, otherwise the european external policy on energy security risks remaining on paper.
madam president! i would like to make two points in the debate on the conclusions of the european council. the first point concerns the financial crisis. it demonstrates beyond doubt that the regulatory framework for banking supervision requires substantial improvements. the main directions of these changes concern better asset risk assessment and the adaptation of prudential standards to new financial instruments. however, changes are also needed to eliminate the pro-cyclical nature of hypothetical loan decisions. the size of this loan increases with the increase in real estate prices and decreases with their decline. this is the mechanism that creates the bubble. the second point concerns the climate package. i welcome the council's decision to seek a compromise on the system of co2 allowance sales. in some member states, energy is based on 90% coal. to require these countries to buy 100% of the permits as early as 2013 would be an economic disaster. we need to introduce transitional periods. this is both the principle of equal treatment and common sense.
the brussels summit was also, thanks to the efforts of the polish president and prime minister, a voice of common sense when it came to the climate package. the summit's decisions, for which the leaders of the european union are to be thanked, have removed, though not entirely eliminated, the threat of such environmental stresses, which would have been a decidedly excessive economic burden, especially for the countries of the new union. the summit also addressed the financial crisis. the only strange thing is that a few days earlier, there was a small summit of the largest countries of the european union, like the political bureau of the communist party of the soviet union. it would be appropriate for the strongest members of the union not to impose their solutions on other countries. irritating, too, are the double standards that allow member states to finance banks but not polish shipyards. in this respect, the european union is like george orwell's animal farm: all animals are equal, but some are more equal.
one of the most important topics discussed at the summit was the global financial crisis combined with the climate change package. i'm glad the council has taken up the matter. however, it is worrying that key decisions were already taken earlier at a meeting of representatives from only four countries. this position was consolidated in the so-called euro group and only later in the european council. this raises a serious question: is the european council being taken seriously or is it just a forum for approving the decisions of a small group of leaders? is this the practical dimension of a three-speed europe? in the face of the global crisis, it is also worth revising previous decisions to reduce co2 emissions. their immediate implementation could further exacerbate the recession, especially in central and eastern european countries such as poland, and have a negative impact on the european economy. so we need to adopt a separate package for countries that are primarily coal-fired.
in writing. the current crisis has a financial aspect, but it also has an energy and food dimension. it is the tip of an iceberg, the foundation of which is the breaking of fundamental moral principles on the one hand and human naivety on the other. this is the result of speculation, not sound investment. perpetual motion doesn't exist in physics or economics. what was the policy of those whose shenanigans led to the collapse of world finance? we've been seduced by people who've made fortunes off fraud. now, to save the banking system, they're going to make the taxpayers pay. these are likely to exceed the eu's entire budget. the financial shock began in the united states, but its effects are spreading around the world. some countries, like iceland, are almost at the edge of the abyss. other effects will probably come back like a shock wave and also bring losses. could there be any positive effect? i might have. perhaps we will understand that we must not build on the sands of illusion, on false assumptions, that we need a foundation of solidity and solidarity. this is not just about the words "safe as a bank" getting their old meaning back, this is about the future of us and our children. a market economy, or 'capitalism', must operate on sound and durable principles, the last of which is fairness.
madam president! i voted against because i believe that the whole concept of radically reducing carbon dioxide in the form proposed by the commission, parliament or the european council is fundamentally wrong and has no relevant legal basis. moreover, if it were to be implemented in the case of poland, poland would lose more than it has gained so far in the form of all direct subsidies, indirect subsidies and grants and would still have left over. this means that this concept would upend the economies of many developing countries and would not be a good model for the world to build on the success of europe to implement this principle on a global scale. if it were to be introduced in europe alone, it would be a completely unnecessary and wasteful expenditure of 500 billion euros.
i was very pleased to receive the draft of the second phase of the erasmus mundus programme together with the higher education sector. it is hard to convince anyone that integrating young and talented people from different parts of the world is the key to building and maintaining peace, not only on our continent, but also globally. through face-to-face contact, foreign languages and other cultures, students broaden their horizons and learn to see things from new perspectives. they become more open and tolerant. for these reasons, i am a big supporter of the new concept in the erasmus mundus project.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the international civil aviation organisation and the european community on aviation security controls/inspections and related matters (com ((2008) 0335 c6-0320/2008 2008/0111 ((cns)). the rapporteur, mr paolo costa, rightly emphasises that, in line with the objectives of the community's civil aviation policy, the cooperation agreement will strengthen the relations between the community and icao. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the agreement, which is expected to be completed by the end of the year. member states should benefit significantly from the decision.
in writing. − ensuring the safety of the citizens of the member states and the swift and efficient functioning of the judiciary should be a priority for the community. this is relevant in the context of the rapid growth of organised crime, in particular of a cross-border nature. any legal instrument that can improve the efficiency of criminal proceedings and contribute to the conviction of offenders deserves particular attention. the european evidence order introduces the automatic recognition of judicial decisions issued in another member state. this is quite problematic, as it entails far-reaching modifications to criminal procedure in the member states. the introduction of the end is a very problematic initiative, given the different models of criminal procedure and the high diversity of the law of evidence. in my view, rather than meddling in such a delicate matter as the criminal procedure in a country, the commission and the ep should focus on ensuring the best possible cooperation between the police forces of the member states with the participation of bodies such as eurojust and the european police college.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 423/2004 as regards the renewal of cod stocks and amending regulation (eec) no 2847/93. according to the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, the state of cod stocks in the north sea is critical. the catch is too high, too many young fish are targeted, and this limits the ability of the species to regenerate. the rapporteur, mr niels busk, strongly emphasises the need for monitoring and enforcement. it also supports the commission's view that catch objectives should be revised, management simplified and discards reduced. we cannot ban fishing because of the social and economic consequences, but we need to act immediately to implement the plan for the recovery of cod stocks.
in writing. − apart from the positive effects of globalisation on growth and employment, it can also have negative effects on the most vulnerable and less skilled workers in some sectors. these negative effects may affect all member states, both large and small, long-standing and newly joined. the eu structural funds support the anticipation and management of change through activities such as lifelong learning with a long-term perspective. the european globalisation adjustment fund, on the other hand, provides one-off, time-limited individual assistance aimed at supporting workers affected by redundancies caused by market changes. the eu should pay particular attention to this fund.
in writing. - the protection of the environment should undoubtedly be a priority for each member state, as well as for the community as a whole. but the initiative to create a global climate change alliance between the eu and poor developing countries is a failure, to say the least. spending taxpayers' money on yet another expensive political creation will certainly not improve the environment, but will only provide yet another lucrative job for brussels officials. developing countries produce many times less pollution, and their carbon emissions are very small compared with those of the major economies. i would like to remind you that for years the united states has been among the biggest polluters. they have not ratified the kyoto protocol to date. i am convinced that the creation of an alliance along the lines of the eu and the least developed countries will not reduce pollution levels, because the key to improving the situation is, for example, to talk to the political leaders of the above-mentioned countries, because they are the ones who contribute most to environmental degradation.
in writing. − at today's sitting of parliament i voted in favour of the adoption of the legal affairs committee's annual report on monitoring the application of community law for 2006. the rapporteur, ms lidia geringer de oedenberg, made observations in the draft on the failure to meet the deadlines for transposing directives, the unsatisfactory cooperation between national judicial authorities and the european court of justice, and the methodology for dealing with complaints. the reluctance of the national courts of the member states to apply the principle of the primacy of community law and to use the preliminary ruling procedure is a very worrying phenomenon. the report also shows an increase in the number of infringements resulting from the failure to comply with the judgments of the court of justice and the late transposition of directives by the member states. in this context, there is an urgent need to strengthen cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments and to strengthen the control of the application of community law at national and regional level. these actions are a condition for bringing the european union closer to its citizens and for strengthening its democratic legitimacy.
in writing. − erasmus mundus is a cooperation and mobility programme in higher education, aimed at promoting the european union worldwide as a centre of excellence in teaching. it extends the possibilities previously available under the erasmus programme by opening up educational cooperation to non-eu countries. education plays a key role in young people's lives. international experience is increasingly valued by students themselves and by prospective employers. knowledge of languages and cultures, country specificities and the ability to function in an international environment are just some of the many benefits of participating in the programme. the promotion of mobility is another element that is strongly emphasised in the programme's objectives. they are particularly important in the era of globalisation, when contacts with third countries are becoming more important. it is good that students from europe and from third countries will continue to have the opportunity to gain these experiences. i am pleased that the programme also proposes to solve the visa problem, which unnecessarily complicates the procedures for entry. the proposed facilitation should also cover the scope of the information available. students should be given all the information they need to prepare for their stay well in advance. in this respect, support from the european commission's existing delegations in third countries could be particularly beneficial.
in writing. − erasmus mundus has already played a major role in modern education for young people and adults. however, experience has shown that this issue should be approached with caution. too radical changes, for example in tuition fees, under the new conditions could undermine the market-verified education system and violate certain principles of academic autonomy. so we need to consider which is better whether to leave the decision to the erasmus mundus consortia or to set the conditions from the top. i believe that where there is a well-established practice and the possibility of decision-making by local communities, this should be respected and nothing should be introduced by decree, especially since we live in different regions, i.e. more developed or historically backward, with different traditions and different economic conditions. i would also like to point out that the european parliament continues to make use of documents which are not yet in force, such as the european constitution, which was rejected in the referendum, the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights. law cannot be based on lawlessness.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on passenger ship safety rules and standards (recast) (com (2007) 0737 c6-0442/2007 2007/0257 (cod)). like mr józsef szájer, i am inclined to accept the principles and guidelines set out by the conference of presidents. they're perfectly legal. i also fully support the suggestion that the decision of the conference of presidents requires technical adjustments.
in writing. − intrastat as a common and uniform system of eu member states aims to reduce unnecessary red tape and regulation. it is a flexible system that allows the specific needs and solutions of individual eu countries to be taken into account. at the same time, it is important to note that both intrastat and the international trade statistics system are based on the recommendations of the methodology for international trade statistics developed by the united nations department of statistics. this makes it possible to obtain complete, fully comparable information on international trade in goods. it is very important to receive up-to-date statistical data on important economic issues. member states should make every effort to modernise and improve this system.
in writing. − in the european union, we are seeing an increase in marriages where the spouses are from different countries, both within and outside the european union. this fact has led to the increasing problem of which law to apply and which court has jurisdiction in a given case. the european union needs effective conflict-of-law rules to decide on the jurisdiction of the law. with the increase in divorce, there is also discrimination in seeking divorce or separation. the better informed spouse first brings the case before the court of his choice in one of the spouses' home countries, thus deciding which law is more in his interest. in the case of marriages where one of the spouses lives outside the european union, attempts to obtain recognition of a divorce decree issued in a third country by a court prove difficult. the report put to the vote today aims to ensure that both spouses have access to reliable information on divorce and separation procedures and on the main issues of national and community law. rightly, the best interests of the child were considered paramount in each case.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the actions of russian troops in georgia are a very important test of russia's intentions today. it is also a test of the european union's fundamental principles and its political strength. unfortunately, the leaders of many member states are acting as if russia's invasion of sovereign democratic georgia never happened. ladies and gentlemen, russia has once again humiliated the european union by claiming that it has withdrawn its forces to the state they were before the invasion. how can we explain the fact that georgian villages in south ossetia and its neighbourhood are still subjected to brutal ethnic cleansing, and that 200 eu observers are denied access to the conflict areas? this situation has nothing to do with returning to the status quo of august 7th, which is a condition for entering into talks with russia. the russian invasion of georgia was aimed, inter alia, at terrorising neighbouring countries in the region in order to torpedo the nabucco project, which is crucial for the union's energy security. it seems that no one at this moment remembers the strategic transport corridor for gas and oil for us, which runs through georgia, which is the only one not controlled by the kremlin. i would also like to remind you how many of our neighbours in ukraine, the baltic states and belarus have russian passports. so we have to consider that the kremlin may at any moment feel that these are the people who need its protection. just like what happened to south ossetia. i would like to stress that the member states of the union, as well as their closest neighbours, are directly exposed to russian aggression. we are now faced with a situation in which russia has added to its energy blackmail arsenal a military threat to the member states of the union and to their immediate neighbours, as is evident in the current situation in georgia. in these circumstances, there can be no partnership between the european union and russia. to enter into these talks at the summit scheduled for november 14 in nice would be another expression of the complete helplessness of the leaders of the european union towards russia.
when we talk about the conflict between russia and georgia, we often forget what happened not in ossetia, but in abkhazia. and something very significant happened there. while the russians have reason to believe that their actions, while outrageously excessive, were a response to the attempt to solve the problem of ossetia by military means, nothing like this happened in abkhazia. the mass entry of russian troops, the appearance of the fleet off the coast of georgia, as well as the military recapture of these areas that were under the control of the georgian authorities, shows that russia is ready to use armed force under the pretext of preventive actions, thus raising these actions to the rank of being justified only by a unilateral assessment of foreign policy measures. president medvedev in his speech returned to the concept of a common security space from vancouver to vladivostok. but how can we expect to work together in this common security space if russia shows that it is the source of the threats? as for the other issues that president medvedev wanted to be included in this possible agreement, it must be remembered that they are all included in the agreement that is in force, which was adopted in 1990 and which is called the paris charter for a new europe. unless it's not about dialogue, but about the veto power against the various actions that the euro-atlantic community can take. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! russia is perhaps the biggest winner of the financial crisis. our attention has clearly shifted recently from aggression against georgia to the problems of our banks. this was clearly seen in the debate this morning. but we must not forget that russia has more than 7,000 troops in ossetia and abkhazia today. that's more than three times what it was on august 7th, which means russia is not fulfilling the peace agreement as we would like. this means that the stalemate in eu-russian relations continues. this means that there is no basis for renewing political dialogue within the framework of the joint european-russian bodies, and there is no basis for renewing the negotiations on the partnership agreement. this means, in the end, that we must accept with disappointment the position of some member states who suggest that russian aggression against georgia can be taken as a matter of course and that it only takes time. such a passive policy could prove very costly for the european union's common foreign policy as a whole.
the russian federation is one of the european union's main partners, alongside the united states. russia is a strategic partner and supplier of energy resources to the countries of the european union, including my country, poland. economic cooperation with russia is simply a fact and it is in the interest of both parties that it develops successfully. the georgian attack on south ossetia and the subsequent escalation of the conflict have seriously jeopardised relations between brussels and moscow. but this does not mean that we should, as some european politicians would like, turn our backs on russia or even sever all relations with it. russia has done a lot in the last 20 years to join the ranks of democratic european states, and while there is certainly still a lot to be done in this field, on the other hand, there is no doubt about the huge support of the russian public for the current and former president of the russian federation. i hope that the good cooperation between the european union and russia will continue, despite certain obstacles, which is of course in the interest of both parties.
mr president, after what mr sarkozy said this morning, that europe must speak out, i have a few thoughts in polish. last time i was in rosji's room. europe was divided, it spoke with different voices. in the polish embargo case, commissioner mandelson said that it was a bilateral matter. i want to take europe to my new place. kryzys gruziński has opened the eyes of western europe, especially of our fellow socialists, to what russia can be. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the wto agreement on trade in services. russia wants to maintain its own rules, which give it a free hand to make decisions for its own benefit. without this understanding it is not possible to investigate the existence of a common agreement, and such agreements are not necessary. i'm going to write to my nearest neighbour, a country with great potential and great culture, full of hope, full of hope for my country, the baltic sea, and the bering sea. in the interests of the nation, but with the firm conviction of the common position of the leaders, namely, our president and putin, we must speak with russia without the diabolical fear that russia will at any moment be pressed to do so. the welfare of citizens of russia depends on the fulfilment of the requirements and needs of the citizens of the union. let your awareness give our leaders strength and sense of worth in the negotiation with their partners. the council of ministers shall be assisted by the commission. in conclusion, the commission president of the council emphasised that russia had withdrawn from the buforowej zone and that it was well on its way. and why not look at it as a step in the right direction, to give something back to the people, because ossetia and abkhazia have not come out and they are not going to do it. i'm not going to be realistic.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i am very grateful to mr swoboda for not wanting to break off the dialogue with the united states, but let us return to our sheep. it is clear that both sides, the european union and russia, need loyal and effective cooperation, particularly in the energy field. without our technological help, it is certain that russia will not be able to take advantage of its resources. but of course we also need the common and effective energy policy which we lack, as has already been pointed out in this debate. of course, a common policy is also needed to achieve peace in the caucasus. the implementation of the agreements reached by presidents sarkozy and medvedev, also with regard to the withdrawal of russian troops from abkhazia and ossetia - now three times as many as three months ago - is necessary, precisely as an indispensable proof of good will and loyal and credible cooperation. the responsibility of the russians in the situation of the caucasian republic is obvious. the russian military presence for the last 16 years has not been an element of conflict relief but rather an instrument of the imperial policy of this great country, which has tried to profit from these conflicts. the reduction in the number of russian troops in abkhazia and ossetia, as some of my colleagues have already said, to the pre-august level, should then open the way to effective negotiations.
mr. chairman, please! speaking in this chamber today, president sarkozy said that russia has fulfilled its commitments to withdraw its troops to the positions it held before august 7 and called for the resumption of normal relations with russia. in taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine, and further destabilised ukraine. i would like to remind you that there are now 8,000 russian troops stationed in abkhazia and south ossetia, also in places where they were not before the conflict began. villages along the border were subjected to brutal ethnic cleansing, and abkhaz troops occupied the georgian-controlled kodori gorge. more than 200 eu observers are still denied access to the two republics, which have been recognized by russia as independent states. i think that this is a far cry from the situation on august 7, 2008. as long as the russians continue to flout their commitments, there can be no return to normal relations. if the eu decides to take such a step, it will be ridiculed and will show that sooner or later it will legalize any, even the most dangerous, move by the russian authorities.
thank you for this debate. i'm sure that we all care about the same thing in this room. we want to work with russia. we also want a stable, predictable political situation in europe. russia needs us, of course, because it wants to sell gas and oil, but above all because it has its own internal and external problems. our stability, our responsibility, our strength is what russia needs. so what's the difference between us in this room? the way we want to deal with russia is to achieve the objectives of the union, and not just the economic objectives, but the objective of adhering to the principles and the value system that we believe in. let me give you an example from my own experience. in 2001, russian-polish relations were really good, the polish foreign minister was received with honors in moscow. the russian prime minister negotiated in warsaw important points of mutual relations, especially in the field of energy. he even extended his stay by one day, which is rare in a relationship like this. but a dozen months earlier, in 1999, poland had expelled a dozen russian diplomats who were involved in a lot of things, not diplomacy. then we had a short-lived crisis, and finally the russians decided it was worth talking to us, it was worth doing business with us, because when we're right, we can be tough. russians are a proud people with great traditions. they definitely value the strength of others more than the complicated explanation that "black is not all black". a firm, decisive stand, when we have the obvious reasons, is the only way out.
russia is gradually regaining control of its neighbors and is successfully pursuing its foreign policy priorities. it confronts the world with facts, and the mouths of european politicians are full of hypocrisy and weakness. the french president almost gloated over praising russia for not withdrawing troops from the rebellious regions of georgia and recognizing their independence. and the german chancellor in tbilisi assured that georgia would be in nato. a few weeks later, she assured president medvedev that she saw no reason to rush. oh, yes, russia can appreciate such loyalty! the german e.on group has been granted access to the siberian deposits and energy market, and both countries will jointly develop a baltic gas pipeline. meanwhile, the french president signed multi-billion dollar contracts in moscow to modernize the russian railway system. the height of europe's embarrassment to moscow was sarkozy's granting russia the right to defend its own citizens. didn't the president of the council know that this trick has been used by russia many times in history? the new yalta is taking place ... (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
building good relations with the russian federation is a major challenge for the european union. it is one of our most powerful partners politically, economically and militarily. recent events in georgia have seriously undermined trust in our eastern neighbor. russian foreign policy has revealed to us the kremlin's aspirations to rebuild a great world empire that does not properly respect accepted international agreements. moscow has clearly indicated where its sphere of influence is. this has put the union in a very difficult position, in which we have fortunately spoken with one voice, albeit a little muted. after the georgian experience, we should consider how to continue a coherent policy towards russia. the immediate issue for us is security. (the president answers)
in writing. in the economy, this is reflected in russia's demand for eu investment and technology. the union needs russia's natural resources. in 2001, eu countries provided 79% of russian foreign investment, totalling almost usd 30 billion. in may 2004, the eu-25 accounted for more than half of russia's foreign trade (55%). the deterioration of relations with russia is not in the interests of the eu member states. the union needs diversification of oil and natural gas supplies. russia, with its political and economic potential, is a major partner for the eu. if the eu were to push for ideas different from the us on the international stage, gaining political support from russia could prove crucial to their implementation. an example was the entry into force of the kyoto protocol (thanks to russian ratification), in return for which the eu agreed to russia's accession to the wto.
i think that on the list of human rights violations in vietnam, one must highlight the state aggression against catholics in that country. the government in hanoi has unilaterally disposed of the church's property in violation of previous agreements. the faithful who oppose the seizure of the apostolic nunciature buildings in hanoi are attacked by militias. the number of prisoners of conscience is increasing. more people have been detained recently at the redemptorist monastery in thai ha. the archbishop of hanoi, quang kiêt, is under house arrest, is being bugged, is being threatened with death. vietnam, despite its relative social and economic openness, is now becoming a country that increasingly persecutes christians. the new agreement between the european union and vietnam must address the issue of religious freedom in that country. otherwise, it shouldn't be signed.
president of the council. − i think it is important - to answer mrs pleštinská first, and then i will return to mrs harkin and mr rübig - to make sure that we symbolise volunteering and make sure that 2011 is the year of volunteering. that is why the french presidency wishes to prepare for it and to encourage the mobility of young people and to ensure that we move towards the development of european voluntary services. to answer the question about statistics, i would like to take up an exchange we had with mrs doyle. i am in favour of, as mr rübig says, a genuine increase in knowledge of what europe is doing in terms of associations and charities, and also of greater transparency. but we can also see how the humanist tradition of europe is extended to other parts of the world, particularly the united states, but also to other - i think what may exist in asia. but i am not an expert on the subject, but we also need to strike a balance between the statistical obligations and simplifications and what we are trying to do in terms of simplification and reducing the burden on structures that sometimes have little means. i am in favour of a good statistical knowledge, in principle, if we go in the direction you recommend. i am not in favour of uniformity in this area. i think it's important to maintain a certain diversity as well. i do not see why it should be an obstacle to this good statistical approach. what i think is important is to ensure that these obligations, which i understand are useful and must exist, are proportionate to what we are trying to achieve by simplifying the burdens, particularly on the structures that are most in need in administrative terms.
president of the council. - mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to reply to mrs doyle and mrs mcguinness at the same time. the french presidency has therefore decided to continue the complex and politically sensitive discussions on gmos which were initiated during the previous presidency with a view to reaching conclusions on this subject before the end of the year. the environment council, mrs doyle, mrs mcguinness, had an exchange of views on gmos yesterday following the informal meeting of environment ministers held at the celle saint-cloud, as you know, last july. this discussion will continue with a view to operational conclusions for the council in december, at the end of the french presidency. what are the guidelines being discussed at this stage? the first is to strengthen the procedures for environmental monitoring and assessment by harmonizing them at european level and, of course, i will report back on the results of this reflection in december. we must also, in the context of this reflection, take account of socioeconomic criteria in the management of risks relating to gmos, see how to improve the functioning of scientific expertise and establish harmonised labelling thresholds and finally take account of the fragility of certain territories which are sensitive or protected. so as you know, president barroso has set up a high-level group to look at this, and i think you should check with the commission as to where the work of this group is going. there was no report that was published at this stage. the group is concerned about the legislative framework, about trade-environment issues, about the rise in agricultural commodity prices and its impact on gmos. what is important - as i said - is what has emerged in the council, and the need to ensure that new guidelines on strengthening environmental assessment are adopted quickly in order to take into account the long-term environmental risk of gmos. that's what i wanted to point out.
president of the council. - i take responsibility, mr president, and i assure you that you are not to blame. i take full responsibility for this and i apologise to mrs mcguinness. in response to ms doyle on possible reviews, including peer reviews, the council has initiated a very fruitful exchange of views with experts from easa, in particular on environmental risk assessment. these discussions made a positive contribution, particularly on the subject of strengthening environmental assessment, on - what i have told you - improving the functioning of technological expertise and taking into account certain sensitive territories. i think that peer review is a step in the right direction. i think that would be a healthy development. as regards the concerns expressed by mrs mcguinness, i believe that we cannot do without a rigorous assessment of the long-term environmental impact of the use of gmos. i know what the american position is on this. we must also take account of these long-term concerns in relation to european concerns and therefore be very rigorous in the evaluation we have to make.
president of the council. - mr president, in reply to mr higgins, we remain extremely attentive and very concerned about the situation in zimbabwe. we have therefore condemned the violence since the beginning of april. we condemned the way in which the elections were conducted, and i do not wish to go back on that. as the european union, we have tried to get a very strong resolution on zimbabwe adopted in the security council. since the agreement on a government of union was signed on 15 september under the auspices of sadc, the european union has been working with its partners to enable a credible government of union to be formed as soon as possible, reflecting the will of the zimbabwean people as expressed on 29 march. negotiations are still under way, but following president mugabe's plan to reserve the bulk of the portfolios for his party - i recall that it had lost the elections, the second round of which had been rigged - these mediation efforts failed. the council stated that it was continuing to monitor the situation very closely. it also encouraged sadc mediation, led by president mbeki, to reach a more satisfactory agreement than the one the zimbabwean people made on 29 march. and if these efforts are blocked in any way, we are prepared to take additional sanctions against the zimbabwean authorities. in view of the very worrying humanitarian situation, we do not want the people to be victims of this situation and that is why the commission has just released an additional eur 10 million to deal with the situation of the zimbabwean people. finally, on the economic and social front, i would remind the house that the union stands ready to adopt measures to support the consolidation of democracy and the economic recovery of that country as soon as a credible government of the union is in place. so i would like to reiterate the vigilance and the fact that the european union remains present on all fronts - political, diplomatic, economic and humanitarian - to ensure that justice is done to the people of zimbabwe.
president of the council. - first of all, as mr higgins has said, the situation remains extremely worrying and we understand why the opposition leaders do not accept the solutions proposed at the moment, but i believe that a troika of the political body of sadc, namely swaziland, angola and mozambique, should meet on 27 october in harare. in reply to mr burke, it is clear that it is difficult to have contacts with the fate that awaits mr tsvangirai. his passport was confiscated and not returned, so he did not go to swaziland. the commission and also the president-in-office of the council of ministers, mr bernard kouchner, are of course kept informed, have very close contacts with the sadc representatives, mr mbeki's representatives and we, we will only be able to restore relations with zimbabwe once the rule of law has been guaranteed and a satisfactory solution has been found. but we have as many contacts as possible in the current situation, whether with louis michel or bernard kouchner.
madam president! i wanted to inform you that there is a delegation of polish trade unions in the gallery, who will be listening to our debate. it is composed of representatives of gdańsk shipyard, gdynia shipyard and szczecin shipyard. i'd like you to welcome our friends from poland.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is well aware of the historic importance of the polish shipyards, and that is why we have been working very hard to find a solution that will allow the restructuring of the sector in a way that provides a livelihood for the regions concerned. however, we depend on the cooperation of the polish authorities to arrive at a viable solution. to be quite clear, the state aid investigation in these cases has been pending for around four years. the investigation concerns a substantial amount of operating aid to the szczecin, gdynia and gdańsk shipyards. without even counting the state guarantees from 2002 until now, the gdynia shipyard received from the polish state – which means from the polish taxpayers – aid amounting to around eur 167 000 per worker. that is approximately eur 24 000 per worker per year, and that means that the subsidy to each shipyard worker is at least double the average annual income of polish workers. even without counting the state guarantees, the total aid received since 2002 by the gdynia and szczecin shipyards amount in nominal value to around eur 700 million and eur 1 billion respectively. despite all that money, the yards and the future of the workers remain vulnerable. that, i would stress, is what really scares me. i think that the future of the workers needs to be taken into account. they have avoided the painful but necessary restructuring that, for example, the german and the spanish shipyards have undertaken and which malta is also preparing for at this moment. at all times in those past four years the commission has had an open door for the successive polish governments. i have met quite a number of ministers and prime ministers of polish governments. we have tried again and again to reach an agreement and, unfortunately – and i say it with a sad heart – the polish authorities did not make use of those possibilities. in july of this year the commission came to the conclusion that the latest restructuring plans did not ensure the viability of the shipyards, but, again, conscious of the importance of the issue for the polish economy and for polish society, we, the commission, showed flexibility and offered two more months for new final plans to be presented by 12 september. during the summer, commission officials remained constantly available and gave feedback to the polish authorities on the draft submitted to them. i have now carefully assessed the restructuring plans submitted by the polish authorities on 12 september. unfortunately, i cannot see how to conclude that those revised final plans will ensure the viability of the yards. indeed, the plans require even more public money to be pumped in in future, including money for the day-to-day operating aid. it should also be underlined that the restructuring plans submitted on 12 september – and i am talking about the plans of the polish government – foresee job reductions of approximately 40%. however, these sacrifices would be made without giving any prospect of sustainable employment to the remaining workers, as the yards would very likely not become viable and would continue to need state support at the expense of the polish taxpayers. that is not an acceptable outcome. it is not acceptable from the eu competition law perspective, but also not acceptable for the future of the shipyards. not acceptable to their workers and more generally for the polish economy. therefore, as the situation currently stands, i do not see how to avoid the adoption of negative positions on the gdynia and szczecin shipyards. but the commission is not in the business of just saying ‘no’. we have been working actively to help the polish authorities come up with a solution that would ensure a viable commercial future for the economic centres of gdańsk, gdynia and szczecin and ensure sustainable jobs. according to this scenario, the assets of the gdynia and the szczecin shipyards would be sold on market terms in several bundles. the assets would be put into bundles following an open, unconditional and non-discriminatory tender; and the remaining shell company would use the proceeds from the sale of the assets to repay the aid received over the years and would be liquidated, and the buyers of the assets would then be able to speedily resume economic activities at the shipyard sites, without the burden of having to repay the large quantities of state aid received by the yards over the years. they may re-employ even more people than would be the case if the restructuring plans of 12 december were implemented. i can only assume that any investor willing to take on the yards – or at least some of their current liabilities – would be even happier to acquire the most important productive assets free of debts and develop them in a competitive and sustainable way. the final outcome would probably be positive in two respects: on the one hand, the number of workers left without a job would be lower than foreseen in the restructuring plan submitted by the polish authorities and, on the other hand, the workers re-employed by the purchasers of the yards’ assets would have much more stable working prospects within viable undertakings, because the burden of past debts would have been lifted. that solution, which would be in line with the recent precedent of olympic airways, would allow a fresh restart of economic activities at the shipyard sites, also benefiting the workers there. the commission has raised that possibility with the polish authorities. we have done that several times, and i sincerely hope that they will take advantage of our flexibility to bring us a concrete proposal. technical discussions on the possible implementation of the ‘olympic airways’ solution for the gdynia and the szczecin shipyards are being held between the polish authorities and commission officials. as for gdańsk, i think there is a good chance of reaching a positive outcome if there remains flexibility and good will on both sides. you will naturally ask me: why this approach for gdańsk? there are two reasons: firstly, gdańsk has already been sold to a private operator which injected fresh money into it and, secondly, this yard’s liabilities for past aid are far more limited compared to the gdynia and the szczecin shipyards. on the commissions side, we have already indicated to the polish authorities our position in assessing the compensatory measures needed to comply with ec state aid rules. because the yard has received less aid in the past, we can be less demanding in this respect. the quid pro quo for the openness on the commission’s part is that the polish authorities must now submit a draft restructuring plan for gdańsk in order to permit any outstanding issues to be discussed, and so far – and i regret this – we have not received such a plan, and it is essential that the polish authorities provide it quickly. moreover, the polish government can request support from the european globalisation adjustment fund – an application which is likely to be successful – and the size of the intervention would depend on the amount of co-funding the polish government is ready to invest, as the european globalisation adjustment fund co-finances a maximum of 50% of the cost. the european globalisation fund analysed by the commission to date the amount per person to be supported, ranged between eur 500 and eur 10 000 from the fund, to which must be added an equal amount to be funded by the member states. to conclude, i can say that the commission has been very forthcoming in assessing these cases and has shown a considerable amount of flexibility. we have done everything we can, and we will continue to work with the polish authorities to find an economically viable and socially sustainable solution which is in line with ec competition law and established commission precedents. now the ball is in the court of the polish authorities. the future of the shipyards and of their workers depends on the polish authorities’ willingness to cooperate with the commission to quickly find a positive solution in the framework i outlined earlier.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. thank you for coming in and taking care of the yard, and for the positive ending to your speech. it is clear that we recognise the principle of competition, that we want european companies to be profitable and to provide decent living for the people they employ. polish shipyards have long had difficulty in complying with these rules. however, the commission's negative decision on the yard today means that the yard is bankrupt, and that is a situation that is difficult to accept. we understand that the economic and social impact of the bankruptcy of the yard is regional, at most national, and the union is now facing a global crisis. however, it is not worth adding to this general slowdown also the drama of polish shipyards and polish shipbuilders. it's worth saving the european, polish shipbuilding industry. that is why i cannot imagine a negative decision and i am asking for a postponement of the decision to give time for the polish government and investors to act. we are therefore waiting for a positive signal from the european commission. during the restructuring period, this will firstly mean that these companies will be able to continue their activities as shipbuilders. it will not be possible to resume shipbuilding if the structure of the yard is dismantled during privatisation. secondly, this positive solution will involve the possibility of maintaining or adequately relocating people working in the yards while maintaining continuity of production and employment. third, some small cover actions will be necessary during this time to sustain production and to make the conversions credible. it is worthwhile to work out the best possible solutions, and i have every confidence that the commissioner and the commission will agree to them. (laughter)
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. the problem of polish shipyards is not a new problem. it's been building up over the years. unfortunately, some governments have not addressed this problem in the right way. why did this happen? this is not the time or the place to talk about this. those responsible will be held accountable according to democratic procedures in poland. but today's situation is difficult. it is understandable that the commission could not take up these omissions. however, it should be noted that different scenarios have different costs. the scenario of improving the situation by saying de facto that the shipyards should collapse, of course, carries with it known dangers. first of all, it is a question of the fate of workers who may be able to be reemployed in the future, but the time between these two situations will be a time of great uncertainty for them, as well as of great danger. there is another aspect to consider. i do not want to go back to the issues that have been raised, but the whole problem of dismantling the polish shipyards and perhaps this difficult time, falls on the time of the elections to the european parliament. it would be very unfortunate if such solutions could give ammunition to those who are against our membership of the european union all the time, and there are many of them in poland unfortunately. i would therefore appeal to the commission to show maximum flexibility towards gdańsk. and we, of course, will also be working in poland to ensure that the polish government is also determined and flexible. (laughter) (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european parliament building, where we are now, is seen as a symbol of franco-german reconciliation. for this reason alone, the european parliament has two seats fully adapted to holding plenary sessions: in brussels and in strasbourg. european taxpayers pay several hundred million euros a year for this. polish shipyards, and in particular gdańsk shipyard, are a symbol of the fight against the communist regime. they are a symbol of the fall of the iron curtain that divided europe in two. that is why the flagpoles of the member states that stand in front of our headquarters were made in the gdańsk shipyard. thanks to the heroism of polish shipbuilders who fought so that europe could be reunited, we can now meet here together. these people deserve respect, a life of dignity and integrity. the closure of the yard, as proposed by the european commission, would mean the laying-off of several thousand skilled workers and the loss of income for another eighty thousand people. this could result in mass emigration for work. polish shipbuilders don't want that, they want to stay in their homeland and work in a modern, profitable plant. that is why i am appealing to commissioner kroes not to destroy this great potential! let's give the polish shipyards a chance to get out of their financial crisis. madam president, i realize that the current polish government, and in particular the minister of finance, has made many mistakes over the past year, but the mistakes and incompetence of alexander grad cannot be paid for by tens of thousands of innocent people. especially now, when western european countries are pumping tens of billions of euros into their banking system, without taking into account the principles of free competition, a negative decision by the european commission would be perceived in poland as an act of bad will. finally, i would remind you that the european commission was not so firm when it agreed to aid for the east german shipyards in the early 1990s. polish shipyards are certainly not inferior to them. (laughter) (applause)
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. solidarity is with each other, never against each other. the problem of polish shipyards raises the fundamental question: is man for the economy or the economy for man? in the case of banks that, through carelessness and mismanagement, caused the financial crisis, the man was pointed out, rather than the banker. and here's the world taking taxpayers' money to save the financial system, when pure economics would have the guilty convicted and the banks collapsed. unfortunately, the polish shipyards have a different philosophy. is a banker a better man than a shipbuilder? the polish shipyards are a symbol of the changes that led to the fall of the berlin wall and the construction of a new europe. banks have not contributed to our history of values. but we're helping the banks, and we're holding up the shipyard. the difficult situation of polish shipyards is not the fault of the workers, it is not a lack of shipbuilding skills. the reasons are mismanagement, political games and unclear financial interests linked to the yard's collapse. while many of the old union's shipyards were receiving public aid, the gdańsk shipyard, a symbol of the struggle for freedom and human rights, was destroyed for political reasons. the bankruptcy of polish shipyards is of interest to those who expect large profits from the acquisition of assets and attractive shipyard sites. the yard's collapse will obviously benefit competitors, including those outside europe. it is worth noting that the union's overall share of world ship production is three times lower than the share of south korea alone, which subsidises the industry. ladies and gentlemen, it appears that a significant part of the public aid has not been channelled into actual support for the yard. this needs to be looked at very carefully. i'm not going to let you down. creating opportunities for polish shipyards is not just about providing housing for thousands of families of polish shipyard workers and cooperating plant workers. it is an opportunity for the development of a modern polish economy, but it is also in the long-term interest of the european union to support its shipping industry. so, the strike on the polish shipyards is contrary to the lisbon strategy. (laughter) (applause)
commissioner, the president! the situation in which polish shipyards find themselves today certainly requires immediate action by the government, the entire shipyard community and the european commission. these actions should not be privatisation but at least nationalisation of the yard with a view to its fundamental restructuring. what is the point of any aid if the only solution is privatisation and the ownership of the yard is to be transferred to entities outside the european union? it is not only a distortion of the eu's competitive conditions, but also the elimination by poland of a strategic sector of the economy, a sector in which more than 100 thousand people work and cooperate today. in the context of the global economic crisis and the recent bailouts of banks, this will result in their de facto nationalisation and their remaining in national hands. the public aid is granted to achieve viability by rebuilding the company. among other things, such action could save the polish shipbuilding industry. since 2005, the european commission has been asking for clarification as to why the polish shipyards have received public aid. it would be good if the commission applied the same criteria to similar activities in the union territory in relation to other yards. instead of ruthlessly disposing of the yard, the polish side should hold those responsible for the poor management of these companies, starting from the management boards and ending with the central administration, accountable. the people responsible for making bad decisions for the shipyard should be indicted, not punished, the polish taxpayers, from whose money the public aid will be repaid. i'm asking the commissioner to act with discretion. we need time to take effective and appropriate action. i'm sure that time won't be wasted. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! in my country, everyone expects a positive decision from the commission. we should come to a positive solution. we must help restructure and modernise polish shipyards, not scare them into bankruptcy. the liquidation of the shipyards in gdynia, gdańsk and szczecin will lead to the liquidation of an entire sector of the economy. tens of thousands of people will be out of work, people will be on the streets. is that what we want? there are many arguments to save the polish shipbuilding sector. first, experts agree that the world's demand for ships is growing rapidly. secondly, the shipyards have a full order book for the next few years, which guarantees their profitability in that period. thirdly, polish yards have qualified human capital and excellent technological facilities that offer hope of success in competition with asian yards. fourth, the collapse of the shipyard, the mass layoffs, will mean an increased burden on the welfare system of the state. the commissioner's uncompromising stance may be questionable, especially in view of the gigantic sums spent by some european governments to rescue banks threatened by the financial crisis. is there really no similarity between the two cases? or is it just a lack of goodwill on the part of the commission? i repeat my request for a positive solution to the polish shipyards. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! i'm an envoy from west pomerania. szczecin, as the capital of the region, treats szczecin shipyard as one of its symbols, as do gdansk and gdynia. i'm not going to let you down. the high chamber! we are in a state of financial crisis, banking institutions and the ratification of the reform treaty. the era of liberalism is ending, and the commission's position on state aid must therefore be made more flexible, not only for banks that receive state aid. by the way, you're measuring per bank employee, this public aid is much higher than per polish shipyard employee. i'm applying for a decision on the appropriateness of the public aid granted to polish shipyards. as public aid, it should not be reimbursable. there were delays in reforming the shipbuilding industry. for the negligence and callousness of the three governments, the commission cannot punish 100,000 people in poland, as president martin schulz said. what's the status now? the shipyards have investors waiting for a positive decision. the shipyards have restructuring programs. if they need to be improved, that is the commission's job. it's also the polish government's job. we know what ships can be made and what can be made besides ships. the workers and the union are extremely cooperative. so let's reform the shipyard without upheavals, without bankruptcies, without layoffs, without the termination of contracts by suppliers and customers. the ships must be made efficient and competitive. you can't do that in a few weeks. it takes at least a year, and that's what i'm asking for. i'm not going to let you down. you know that it takes time, but your comparison with olympic airways doesn't seem appropriate for the shipyard. so a year is not a long time when we're deciding the fate of almost 100,000 families. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! bitterness and anger are growing in poland. the public is unable to understand why the european commission wants to bankrupt the polish shipbuilding industry. and the question that is increasingly being asked is, who will benefit the most? is the destruction of this industry a step towards the development of europe? in a time of global crisis, with hundreds of billions of euros of public financial support for the sector, is it reasonable and fair to demand the return of tens of millions of euros of aid given to the shipyards a few years ago? should we at this point kill the employers and deprive the cooperators of the main source of their production? are we prepared for a domino effect, which in times of crisis can have fatal consequences? i hope that the rumours about the influence of lobbyists on the commission's tough stance on this issue have nothing to do with reality. the idea of solidarity, which for my countrymen was born in the shipyards, simply means that we all care for the welfare of all, unless the commission believes, like some of the creatures in orwell's animal farm, that all europeans are equal, but some are more equal.
madam president! i ask the european commission to adopt the restructuring plans for the merged shipyards of gdynia and gdańsk and for the szczecin shipyard. the commission should not adopt these plans because gdańsk shipyard is a symbol. being a symbol is important, especially a symbol like the gdańsk shipyard, but it does not exempt from respect for the law and general rules. the restructuring plans should be adopted for other reasons because they are good and probably the only ones possible, because they respond to the need to modernise the yard's activities, because their implementation is intended to preserve the principles of free competition, because they involve privatisation that will bring the yard to independent operation under market conditions. we should be pleased that the present polish government is the first government in many years to make a real effort to help the shipbuilding industry out of its difficult situation. mr. bielan is wrong here, because it is thanks to minister grade that we have a chance today to find a lasting solution to these problems. this morning, in this chamber, president sarkozy said: 'we wanted europe to be united'. unity also means understanding that it's worth giving a chance to save polish shipyards. such a chance would be given by the adoption of the restructuring plans. president sarkozy said bluntly: 'europe needs a strong industry. europe should be making cars, ships. if the european commission rejects the restructuring plans, another european country will stop producing ships. the logical consequence of the french presidency's appeal today should be the adoption of the polish shipyards' restructuring plans. we have a chance then of a european consensus on this matter, where parliament, the commission and the council will all work together to save the polish shipyards.
i'm not going to let you down. i cannot agree with a single word of the liberal views you have expressed here today. you proposed to quarter the assets of the polish shipyards, sell them in an unconditional tender, and then hand them over to a private investor. i wonder whose interest it is to make such a proposal. certainly not in the interests of the workers, not in the interests of this shipyard, but in the interests of the investors. i also want to tell you that the proposal you have made is unfortunately impossible in the light of polish law, because it simply means bankruptcy. why have the commission and you not proposed to cut the assets of european banks in four and sell them in an unconditional tender? and the governments are now proposing: the netherlands - 10 billion, france - 10.5 billion, germany - 400 billion for the guarantee, because this is a social and solidarity europe. i know that some polish governments have made many mistakes. unfortunately, these mistakes are to be corrected today and today the polish government should have time, at least a year, to ensure that these mistakes do not hit polish workers. i'm appealing to you for more time. i appeal to you to be socially sensitive and economically minded. polish shipyards are european shipyards.
madam president! i remember 15 years ago when the representatives of the shipyard szczecin told me about the large-scale aid of the european union and the german state for the shipbuilding industry of the federal republic of germany, which was competitive with the shipyard szczecin. i am speaking about this today so that we do not suddenly find that brussels is applying double standards, that there are better and worse, more or less equal, more or less favourable to the european commission and that there are holes in everything. when the leaders of the four largest eu countries, then the eurozone countries, and finally all 27 member states decide lightly to spend millions of euros to rescue banks that employ hundreds of people, at the same time, aid is being questioned for shipyards that employ thousands of people, and with cooperators, tens of thousands. it is not the polish shipbuilders who should pay the high price of their unemployment in the strange match that is going on between the european commission and the current polish government. the commission makes decisions too easily that will decide the life or death of the shipyards in szczecin and gdynia. if the commission is to take controversial decisions, it should give time to all parties to the dispute. let him accept the creation of a committee of experts, not turn his back on polish shipbuilders and their families.
madam president! i was pleased to hear the debate on polish shipyards and i believe that most of the polish delegation was up to the task, presenting substantive arguments while refraining from looking for the culprits. we cannot agree to a liquidation that will result in the division of the yard's assets. the commissioner gives us the example of the greek airlines, which, by liquidating their debts, were able to get rid of their burden and continue to operate. unfortunately, bankruptcy in polish legal conditions does not allow for a slimmer and healthier recovery from such a treatment. for the polish shipyards, such a treatment will be fatal. but with the baggage of debt, the shipyards will never get a chance to operate profitably again. in an interview with a polish newspaper, the commissioner stated that the banks that are currently being bailed out are a completely different case than the shipyards that are in debt. i agree - the shipyards were badly managed, difficult restructuring was delayed, but certainly not allowed to be extremely irresponsible, or even legally questionable activities, as happened in the banking sector. polish taxpayers paid for the mistakes of the polish shipyards, and we all pay and will pay for the mistakes of the european banks. the debate has shown that there is agreement to transform the yard in a way that gives real hope of profitable operation in the future. we are all aware that if the commission accepts our arguments now and poland again misses an opportunity, there will certainly not be another.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. or is it time to recognize that something new is beginning in europe, something new is beginning in the world? or maybe it's time to change your sensitivity a little bit and change your thinking a little bit? or is it time to recognize that there are not two sides to this conflict, but only one? the one side we're on together, we want to do something good. or is it time to show the polish workers, the poles, that the union can do something good in this particular situation? i'd like to encourage you to take a stand for what's right. i would encourage you to use your sensitivity and your imagination to get on this new side, because history is changing its course right now, and you may be on the right side. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! hundreds of billions of euros for banks and financial institutions are available now in the name of defending the free market and the european union. there is no symbolic amount for polish shipyards, and after all it was mainly financial institutions with speculative operations that led to the world crisis, and in poland, through the appreciation of the zloty by more than 30%, led to the collapse of the shipbuilding industry. today, the union is helping the people who are responsible for the crisis, and liquidating the victims. the polish yard ruling is also a gift to german shipyards, which have received hundreds of billions of dm in grants since 1989. the more than 100,000 jobs that have been lost, mainly in poland, are the price that poles, not the european union, will pay. the people and the place from which the solidarity movement, the fall of the berlin wall and the liberation of europe began, are to fall victim to arbitrary decisions from brussels in the interests of speculators who want to make a fortune on the ruins and the shipyard grounds? we demand that the commission take decisions which will enable the shipbuilding industry to be saved and developed.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. after all these voices, polish voices, i have only two comments. first, i would like to mention the letter that the polish delegation in the epp-de group sent to president barroso, reminding him that, behind the iron curtain, shipbuilding was considered a polish specialty. hence the relatively high level of technology and the high quality of human capital. it was a kind of wreath that we brought to the common europe, very clearly visible in the form of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are doing quite well today, but also hidden as potential, especially human potential, in the three shipyards we are talking about today. today, the credibility of the plans for the future of these yards is judged by current and potential private investors who are willing to risk their own money on the future of these yards. the second point concerns the wisdom of competition policy in these turbulent times. this wisdom cannot be limited to the fair organisation of relations between competitors in the european area. it has to collide and take into account the global situation. the competition is sometimes in another sport - when europe plays football, they play rugby. and that this does not always produce good results is shown by an example from outside poland - the aker group, probably the most well-known commissioner, the most powerful shipbuilding group in modern europe, consolidating scandinavian, french, german and even brazilian shipyards, perhaps to resist competition from the far east. the aker group is long gone. this is a korean stx. something went wrong. the more so in our turbulent times, decisions must be made, also with regard to polish shipyards, which stabilize rather than create danger. (laughter) (applause)
madam president, commissioner, commissioner, you have presented a plan which can indeed be the basis for a successful restructuring of polish shipyards. the polish government has already started intensive work on this plan, but the key factor is time. we appeal to the commissioner to suspend the commission's decision on the yard. we are calling for more time to be given to the polish authorities to prepare a programme that will be successful, that will save 100,000 jobs in poland and leave europe with a strong industry that will be able to compete internationally. and i'm asking for time for at least two reasons. firstly, the plan you have proposed requires a major legislative change in poland, and this cannot be done overnight, so it takes a few weeks or months. second, we are in a unique situation. the financial crisis threatens to lead to a general crisis in europe. the last thing we need in europe, commissioner, is the collapse of the whole industry. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, the financial support granted to polish shipyards so far was of a purposive nature. the european commission should therefore not request its return. secondly, the support to the polish shipyards is support to the european shipbuilding industry, just as the support previously granted to the east german shipbuilding industry was. the european union should have a modern and efficient shipbuilding industry, where european shipowners will order their ships. thirdly, the amounts of public aid granted to polish shipyards so far, as well as those announced in the future, are purely symbolic when compared with the information on the amounts of aid made available to european private banks, amounting to almost eur 2 trillion. moreover, the governments of the individual member states are making decisions in such haste that they do not even have time to inform the european commission. the suggestion by the european commission that the best solution for polish shipyards would be to restructure them by separating production companies is unacceptable, as this would most likely mean the splitting of the shipyard's assets and the loss of its shipbuilding capacity.
i'm not going to let you down. on the one hand, i want to appreciate your understanding of the historical and moral dimension of these shipyards. secondly, i think you're too smart to understand that the economic argument doesn't hold water today. what we do for the banks and what we don't do for the shipyards, i don't think it's going to last. i also think that in a difficult situation, you have to make a bold decision. maybe this is the opportunity. and the third thing - if i drew a black scenario, i.e. bankruptcy and the purchase of this property by investors probably somewhere outside of poland, because in the country we do not have such, i imagine it the same as if siemens or airbus were managed by koreans. the question is, if in the long run such a powerful branch of the national economy as the shipyards were to be in other hands, would that be beneficial for poland and for europe?
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. since i asked questions twice in july and september, which were not answered in writing, i should like to put them orally. i asked whether it was true that at a meeting of the european commission with the delegation of the ulstein group, one of the investors, a mr soukup, a representative of the commission, on 20 june - i quote a note from the european commission - referring to the question about the suggested price of the purchase of szczecin shipyard nowa, mr soukup indicated that due to the heavy liabilities and losses, this price should not be high. in this context, it asked why the ulstein group did not consider buying the bankruptcy estate after the possible bankruptcy proceedings that would be opened following the decision to recover the aid. it stressed that in the event of the takeover of the bankruptcy estate, there is no possibility of receiving restructuring aid, but there is a possibility of obtaining regional aid support for new investments and the creation of new jobs. in my view, as a longtime entrepreneur, this is a suggestion to the investor to stop and act to the detriment of the company. is that what happened, commissioner?
gdańsk shipyard, the cradle of solidarity, a major player in the fight against communism, discriminated against and brought to a bad economic condition by the political decisions of the communists, is today waiting for a positive decision from the european commission. the same is true of the whole shipbuilding industry. not only the polish shipbuilding industry depends on this decision, but also the situation of the european union shipbuilding industry in the world. this is the problem of competition with korea, with countries where not only is public aid provided, but also employment standards are low, labor rights are not respected. and here, this competition will not be pure competition if you are treated far worse than the banks that have been unfairly encouraging mortgage lending.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the polish shipbuilding industry does not need to collapse, neither for poland nor for the european union. so we have to find a solution that works for all of us. first, the european commission must withdraw its claims for reimbursement of public funds, especially since they were predominantly covered by government guarantees for borrowers. secondly, to require the yard to repay public funds in a situation where the union is moving away from a market economy and nationalising banks is unfair and undermines the sense of the european union. thirdly, the economy in the european union and in poland must develop. development cannot be based solely on the elimination or reduction of production in individual industries. fourth, the drive to liquidate the shipyards that started the solidarity movement and european change could cause a defensive outburst of social discontent, and on a large scale, which is unnecessary. fifthly, we have almost 100 million people in the union living at the biological safety line. who needs more poverty?
madam president! there is no doubt that we are witnessing a crisis of confidence in the european institutions, a crisis in ireland, in the netherlands, in france. not in poland. not like this. in poland, there is trust in the institutions of the european union. unfortunately, the possible impossibility of the operation and peaceful transformation of these shipyards could lead to a crisis of confidence in the institutions of the european union in poland, because it is obvious to everyone that there are two measures, two standards, another standard for the former east germany, another standard for banks today. you can talk about the difference in proportions, but it's not something that those who lose their jobs will understand. commissioner, when i had the honor of being with you and the polish shipyards, i got the impression, and i'm sure it's true, that you want to find a good solution. i'm asking you to find the best solution and give the shipyards a chance. thank you very much, ma'am.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am impressed by honourable members’ involvement with this dossier and i have paid great attention to all the remarks made this evening. i want to do my utmost to give you an answer and, if you will allow me, i shall take a little time and try to explain what the reality is at the moment. mr buzek started by giving an explanation of the situation in poland, and he rightly mentioned that we should be prepared to offer a positive solution to maintain business activities. we are offering a positive solution to maintain business activities. if investors are interested in shipbuilding, as some say they are – and we got that message not only from one member of the government but also from different sides – then they can bid for the assets, and that is what i was underlining. please take into account that, as far as the commission is concerned, the solution could result in viable economic activities in poland. we have to talk about viable economic activities, because i do not want to present the workers who are involved with something that is not viable. it has taken too much time. all those people have the right to know what is going on and what their future will be, and no one is expecting that we will just say: let us go on, what the hell, what can we do now, let us just continue with what we have been doing. we are aware that this is not a viable situation any more. having said that, we, the commission, did our utmost to come up with a solution. therefore, as i said earlier, firstly, for gdańsk, the polish government should offer us a business plan in which there is a viable future. all the craftsmen there can do an extremely good job and are already doing a job which there is good reason to think could be expanded – after all, it is privatised, the owners have made investments and there is a possibility that this can continue. however, we badly need a business plan, and that is what i am asking you for. you who are so involved in the polish situation should just address your polish government and say: ‘come on, boys and girls, now you have to deliver. we, as members of the european parliament, no longer accept the fact that you are not delivering.’ in other words, they are not delivering a solution to the question that you have in mind. assuming that the gdańsk side of the problem is approached in the way i mentioned, then i will now come to the two other shipyards. i have just described to you that gdynia and szczecin could be approached with an employment future that is viable. that is what we are talking about, and that is why i mentioned the example of olympic airways. of course, they are completely different: one is shipbuilding and the other is flying. but, having said that, the original thought behind the olympic airways solution was liquidation and then assets, without the burden of paying back all those large amounts of money, and then, with the new investors, giving these undertakings an opportunity to find a viable future. mr schulz, we did not say that the yards should be shut. we are seeking a way for them to be strong enough to resist the coming recession and with the activities which are most likely to be profitable on those sites, and there lies the opportunity for both of the shipyards, once the assets are bundled, taking into account that there are a couple of potential investors who are interested in just giving them a viable future. ms schroedter, the polish yards have had a longer transition than the east german yards, and during a booming period of the economy. not only mr chruszcz, but also mr czarnecki, if you are comparing this to the situation in the german shipyards, – and it is right to say that there is a parallel with the german shipyards – then i have two general remarks. firstly, we need to realise that the shipbuilding industry in other countries, such as denmark or the uk, where the public purse was not so generous, was considerably downsized or even closed. i have some claim to know about this: in my own country quite a number of shipyards had to be closed. so if we speak about equal treatment, we need to take into account that in other member states of the european union there is a history of closing shipyards which can no longer be viable. a couple of members made the comparison with the situation in germany. the total size of the three shipyards in poland – gdynia, gdańsk and szczecin – is comparable to the size of the german shipyards prior to their restructuring, and the aid already granted to the polish shipyards in the period 2002-2008 is also comparable to the aid granted by germany to its shipyards – around eur 3 billion. so there is a basis for comparison. however, from both the perspective of competition distortion and of safeguarding stable employment, the length of the restructuring process in poland is an aggravating factor. whereas the shipyards in germany were privatised in 1993 and finalised their restructuring in 1995-1996, the polish shipyards have continued subsidised operations for a very long time, since well before the polish accession to the eu, and have been bailed out several times since then. i have mentioned before that now, in 2008, more than four years have passed since the accession of poland to the eu, and eight years since the first state aid rules were introduced in poland in 2000 pursuant to the 1994 association agreement. in addition, the shipbuilding industry has been benefiting from an unprecedented boom over the last five years. that should also be taken into account: even during a period of a booming sector, it was not possible to put the polish shipyards in a viable position, so that is something we have to take into account. even during that period things were not working properly in a way comparable to the other shipyards. so if we take into account that the boom, with an assured inflow of orders and ever-increasing prices, created favourable conditions for conducting a far-reaching restructuring in poland, then that chance has not been utilised by poland. industry experts already forecast a downturn, an overcapacity in the world market in the two or three years to come. to conclude, the comparison with germany might be meaningful. yes, it is close by; yes, it is nearby a comparable situation. it shows that the polish shipyards are treated exactly the same as the german shipyards. the same criteria are applied when assessing the state aid, with viability being the most prominent of them. finally, a parallel should also be drawn with cases where the commission has not authorised state aid and even ordered recovery of illegal state aid in other member states. in the shipbuilding sector i recall negative decisions ordering repayment of aid – as some of you will remember – with regard to the spanish public shipyard izar, to greek shipyards and a couple of other ones. if mr bielan is saying – as i too said in my remarks – we have taken years, then this is because of the economic, social and symbolic importance of the yards. yes, we did. i dare to defend that, but the best thing we can give to the heroes of the yards is a viable future, and that is what i am asking you for: just a realistic approach, the approach that those heroes deserve. a question was asked about european shipbuilding. the commission, in cooperation with the european shipbuilding industry, is actively implementing an integrated strategy – and we call it ‘leadership 2015’ – aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the shipbuilding industry in all the member states of the european union. in that context, work is ongoing in helping industry in poland and elsewhere to address the key challenges facing the sector by, for example, facilitating innovation and better protection of intellectual property rights. continuous subsidisation cannot be an answer to challenges to competitiveness. we in the commission, like you, are interested in a viable industry that can operate without state intervention and without state aid and compete on its own merits. that is the case for many shipyards in europe, particularly in the sector of technologically sophisticated vessels. mr tomczak and a number of other members compared the financial sector situation of today and the banking situation, and who does the economy serve? the declining eu share of world shipbuilding will not be reversed by keeping yards in unsustainable activity, and mr chruszcz and mr tomczak touched on the general line with the financial crisis. i tried to explain this in my first statement. i would like to say a little more on the questions asked by some of you. a question was asked about the possibility of applying state aid rules less strictly in the light of state aids currently approved by the commission for financial institutions. this is an interesting question, and it is not only within your meeting of today. but it is also a fact that we have to see why the commission seems to be stricter in the polish shipyard cases, while it authorises massive aid to european banks. the situation of the polish shipyards, if you will allow me to say so, is completely different to that of the banking sector. there are two reasons, which i shall explain to you. no 1: the bankruptcy of a major european bank could trigger the collapse of a number of other financial institutions and produce systematic negative effects on the whole economy of one or more member states. so we are currently considering emergency short-term aid measures for banks, as opposed to restructuring aid spread over many years for the polish shipyards. by the way, if banks were to require longer-term state support, they too would be subject to similar requirements to the polish shipyards. they have to deliver a credible restructuring plan. they have to ensure a long-term viability for their beneficiaries. so it is indeed a fact that, within the banking sector at the moment, we are also approaching the banks with restructuring and viable business plans for the future. i do not see why some of you are so concerned with the nationality of the purchasers of the assets of the yards. if they are the ones who are the real entrepreneurs and if they are the ones who are interested in those assets, let us go for it. we owe it to the workers of the yards to seek a solution without regard to nationality or protectionism. that is not the answer i would like to give to the workers who are interested in their jobs, in jobs that are viable. i am very glad that a couple of members recognise that the yards are flexible and that we do not make a religion out of it. if only producing ships is the only opportunity, i think we are not dealing with these cases in a professional way. there should be sustainable production of whatever product over there with the craftsmanship of those people. if demand is growing and the workers and the yards are competent, which i believe – as you were mentioning – then we can give them a chance by freeing them from the burden of past state aid. i shall try to conclude, as i can read your body language. one of the main issues that i was faced with is: can you not give more time? is that the way we should deal with this very difficult issue? i think that all those workers have the right to ask us to come up with a viable solution for their future. what we, the commission, are presenting and what we are asking the polish government and where we badly need your backing towards the polish government is that they are aware. just deliver the business plan for gdańsk. please, please, please. and just be aware that for gdynia and szczecin there is an opportunity. there is a future, but then we have to act in such a way that the burdens of all those to be repaid state aid over recent years are taken off the assets and that, with the assets in a bundling, there is a new future for activities in both yards and in both areas and regions. it is absolutely crucial that those assets are not with that burden, for if there is that burden on the shoulders of those assets then there is less interest from investors. that, indeed, is the law of just thinking over the solution. if the liquidation is to be done, it can be parallel, and if it is parallel then it does not take that much time. if i had to face all those workers, then i would prefer to say, please go with this solution which the commission is offering. if you accept it, it can be done quickly, and do not tell me that, because the law in poland is the way it is, you cannot change a law. i am not absolutely sure that the law is able to fit in this solution, but if that is the case then you can just act as a government. with my experience in the last century in another position, i know – and i knew – that if you want a solution, there is a way out. i ask you from my heart, for all those workers: please address the polish government.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. following today's commission action on polish shipyards, i am firmly convinced that poland should not have joined the eu on the terms it was proposing a few years ago. millions of my countrymen felt the same way, but most of them were under the illusion that the eu would help poland to catch up with the so-called old union. this is not just the case in the shipyards, but in many other sectors, such as agriculture. i am in favour of my country's participation in the european community, but i am against and protest against poland being treated economically as a territory to be conquered. i've seen how other criteria are used to judge former communist germany or the banking sector. there, public assistance is acceptable. today, when the fate of the lisbon treaty is being weighed, i am convinced that it will make poland economically completely dependent on the brussels bureaucracy. that is why, in the forthcoming elections to the european parliament, the people of europe must support politicians who say 'no' to this treaty.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about an issue that clearly unites us rather than divides us in the european parliament. we're talking about how we can serve our citizens by making the vehicles we use as environmentally friendly as possible. this is certainly not a discussion about a perfect document. the document we're talking about is full of compromises that are probably necessary at this stage of our discussion. this document is certainly heading in the right direction. it aims to encourage especially public users local governments, governments, to buy vehicles that are environmentally friendly. this is the great value of this directive, but certainly, as with many of the matters we have discussed in this house, concerning road safety, road safety, this is only the beginning, not the end of our discussion.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. all the initiatives currently under way to meet the climate criteria set by the european council in march 2007, as reiterated in the conclusions of the current presidency, are clearly strengthening the european union as a world leader in the fight against climate change. this report is a consistent part of our debate on effective ways to reduce harmful co2 emissions. the new impetus that will be sent by public entities to car manufacturers seems to be a step in the right direction. however, we must keep a balance between stimulating the innovation of the eu economy and maintaining the open competitiveness of europe's economic operators. hopefully, the automotive industry will see this as an incentive to do more research to accelerate the introduction of new, cleaner and more energy-efficient technologies.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mrs françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/82/ec and directive 2001/83/ec as regards the modification of the conditions for authorising the placing of medicinal products on the market (com ((2008) 0123 - c6-0137/2008 - 2008/0045cod)) (a6-0346/2008) - statement by the commission on the counterfeiting of medicinal products.
i should like to speak to mr. donato tommaso veraldi on behalf of the liberal alliance, but i understand he is not in the room, so i ask that you speak... and you are the member. the mp has gone into hiding somewhere else.
no, i am sorry: we have to keep to the order of speakers. when your time comes, i will ask you to take the floor.
i want to make it clear to the hon. member that it is not the chairman who is good and extended your speaking time, it is the group that has gifted you with extra time. she did it to celebrate, perhaps, the approaching christmas.
in view of the lack of other representatives from your group, i think you can speak for a very long time! i do not know about the others who are on the list, but for sure you are on the list.
a word of apology:there is some confusioninvolving the secretariat, because my list is different to the one displayed. as long as i am chairing the sitting, i shall follow my list. if the secretariat takes my place,they will follow their list. so, mr buşoi will take the floorafter ms grabowska.
madam president! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, because this report, although technically sound, is much safer for patients, for the citizens of the european union who are buying medicines. it's good that we're finally eliminating this disparity that has occurred between the marketing authorization and the procedure for changing that decision. i would like to refer to the words of commissioner verheugen in the second part and welcome the fact that we will finally have new common rules on the fight against the counterfeiting and illegal marketing of medicines. you used the phrase, commissioner, that you would do everything to prevent counterfeit medicines from entering the legal distribution network. i have a question. what about outside the legal distribution network? does the new law also provide for this and will the pharmaceutical business simply get its hands on it? and another question: are you going to include in the new regulations a solution for a more pharmaceutical-conscious citizen?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate has confirmed the broad consensus on the regulation on the authorization of variations. i do not want to go into that any further. we should put this into effect now and make sure that it is as effective as possible in practice. i think that beyond the day and overall more important are the other issues that have been raised here. let me make a few very basic remarks: my job is not to explain to you any technical rules, but my job is to tell you why we do certain things and why we don't do certain things. there is a conflict in our societies between the needs of the health bureaucracy on the one hand and the needs of patients on the other. that is absolutely clear and unambiguous. the proposals we are going to have to deal with in the future are in the middle of this conflict. the health bureaucracies in the member states are not interested in the informed patient. the informed patient does work, the informed patient does effort. he forces those who are supposed to be there to give him information. why am i not getting this medicine or why am i getting that medicine? why am i not getting this therapy and why should i have that therapy? man has a right to know that. i believe that the principle that will not change is that in a democratic society it is not the person who wants to give information to the people who has to justify himself, but the person who does not want to give information. it is the health bureaucrats in the member states who have to explain why they do not want the informed patient! i don't have to explain why i want the informed patient. i would like to make it absolutely clear that there will be a very intense, lively and controversial debate here, and i hope and wish that the european parliament will support the commission and me in that debate. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this is about what civil liberties mean to us in health care. the second question, which concerns counterfeiting, i agree with all those who say that it is a criminal matter. where we are dealing with counterfeiting in the illegal distribution chain, the police are called in. illegal is illegal, there's not much more we can do. i think, however, that the proposals we can make will make it almost impossible to get counterfeit medicines into the legal distribution chain. that's what we can do. mrs roth-behrendt is absolutely right! it is, in my view, a rather unreasonable assumption to assume that this is really about restricting certain forms of distribution of pharmaceutical products for reasons of competition. i don't care about that. parallel trade is a legal activity within the european union. the european court of justice has clearly confirmed this. i do not think i want to go after the parallel trade, but i must say one thing: all those involved in the distribution of medicines must submit to the same strict safety requirements. i do not see why anyone should be exempted from safety requirements simply because he buys a medicine that is sold at a high price in one member state, which is sold at a lower price in another member state, buys it cheaply in that member state, brings it back to the more expensive country and sells it at a high price there. i don't know what you're talking about. those of you who know a little about food law will have wondered, as i have, why it is strictly forbidden in europe to open a pack of spaghetti on the way from the producer to the consumer - yes, it is strictly forbidden to open a pack of pasta on the way from the producer to the consumer - but medicines which, if taken incorrectly, can cause death can be opened on the way from the producer to the consumer. it's worth thinking about why we have this amazing difference, why it's banned for spaghetti, for example, but allowed for vital medicines. i'm having a hard time understanding this. we will find solutions which will enable everyone to continue to do his job, in the sense that mrs roth-behrendt has said: we must be a little creative, have a little brain and think, but the safety requirements apply to everyone. there are no exceptions! i think that i have answered the questions and you have also set yourself up for a very lively and spirited debate which we shall have in the future. the proposals will be coming in a few weeks and all i can say is that we will meet again in this chamber and we will have to discuss the matter.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today, 22 october 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by toin mandersa on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on consumer protection in relation to certain aspects of the occupancy of immovable property for a fixed period, long-term holiday products, exchanges and resales (com (2007) 303 - c6-0159/2007 - 2007/0113 (cod)) (a6-0159/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the tourism industry plays an increasingly important role in the economies of the eu countries, including timeshare services, long-term holiday products, timeshare swaps and resales. in many cases, consumers were the victims of these transactions. the directive addresses these problems and creates the conditions for harmonising these services on the european union market by adopting a set of basic rules to increase transparency and protect consumers, inter alia by: establishing a uniform model for contracts, requiring contracts to be written in the consumer's language, ensuring better conditions for the consumer to make the right decision, establishing a cooling-off period within which the consumer can withdraw from a contract without giving reasons. the directive, together with its amendments, creates the conditions for the development of these services and increases consumer confidence in them. thank you, mr. mander, for your excellent report. the uen supports this directive.
member of the commission. − madam president, we need to ensure that consumers all over the eu are adequately protected against aggressive selling tactics by rogue traders operating in the timeshare and holiday product markets. the need for action at eu level is all the more crucial because of the cross-border nature of most timeshare contracts. furthermore, we need to ensure that consumers have enough confidence in the regulatory framework so that they do not refrain from purchasing timeshare abroad from legitimate traders. a healthy market in timeshare and similar holiday products will contribute to boosting growth and job creation in the european union. it is my firm belief that the compromise package that you will vote on today will make an important contribution to the achievement of these aims. the amendments put forward by the alde, ppe-de and pse groups – with which the council has agreed – are, in my view, fair and reasonable. the package is also in line with the commission’s original proposal. in my opinion, this package constitutes the best option in the interest of both consumers and traders. a vote for this package is a vote for consumer confidence in holiday products, for clear consumer information and for a competitive and responsible holiday industry. so i look to the members of this house to vote to support an agreement today on rules for timeshare and similar holiday products which will provide real added value for holidaymakers all over europe.
in writing. the use of real estate for a specified period is a form of holiday product. many consumers choose to purchase such services because of the attractiveness of the place they are going on holiday, which has unfortunately often been exploited by dishonest companies that do not provide comprehensive information on the service offered. the amendments introduced by the directive will increase the protection of the consumer against such practices. first of all, consumers will have a 14-day period to withdraw from their contracts without any consequences, which will help them to make an informed decision. the information that companies will be required to provide to potential service buyers will also be extended. the consumer will have the right to demand full information regardless of the member state in which he purchases the service. more importantly, this information should be provided in writing in the language of the member state of residence or nationality of the customer. if the consumer is not informed of the possibility of withdrawal within 14 days, the consumer shall have the right to withdraw from the contract for a period of one year and 14 days. all of these solutions are extremely beneficial to the consumer, especially at a time when international travel has become so common and consumers are therefore increasingly exposed to unfair practices by certain operators.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i would like to inform you that after a debate yesterday during our ppe-degroup meeting, we as a group are withdrawing three amendments: amendment 6, to paragraph 9; amendment 8, to paragraph 15; and amendment 10, to paragraph 24. i inform you with pleasure,on behalf of the ppe-de group,that those three amendments are withdrawn.
mr. chairman, please! the adoption of any amendment to that directive, even the most appropriate, would significantly prolong the legislative process and therefore temporary agency workers would not be legally protected for a longer period. the directive has been waiting for many years to be implemented. it is also the implementation of the social partners' agreement. that's why i voted to reject all the amendments.
mr. chairman, please! i worked with mr andersson as a shadow rapporteur for the uen group, fully aware of the importance of the report to my trade union nszz solidarność, to other trade unions and to my political group, which is sensitive to social issues. i have in my hand a letter from mr janusz śniadek, the chairman of the nszz solidarność, on this matter. the report draws attention to the need to respect freedom of association and the importance of dialogue between management and labour, its results, in particular collective agreements, and respect for the principle of 'equal pay for equal work'. that is why i voted for this report, even though, as my colleagues have said in this chamber, references to the treaty of lisbon are not permitted at this stage.
in writing. −i voted against the resolution on the european council in brussels today because i disagree with the majority of meps on at least two issues discussed at the eu summit. in my view, the process of ratifying the lisbon treaty has been definitively completed with the result of the irish referendum on this issue. therefore, any attempt to continue the constitutional process in the european union is simply pointless. i also disagree with the majority's position on energy and climate change. i would point out that the forced solutions are dangerous for the industry and consumers in many countries, including poland.
in writing. −the european parliament has approved the temporary staff directive after six years of negotiations. there are currently considerable differences between the national provisions of the member states on temporary employment. however, in all eu countries temporary work is becoming more important and the temporary work market is developing rapidly. it is estimated that there are about 3 million temporary workers in the european union, employed by some 20 000 enterprises. it is therefore necessary to define a more precise framework for this form of employment of workers. these regulations are particularly important for the workers themselves. temporary workers will receive guarantees that, while performing their tasks for their employer, the working conditions offered to them by that employer will be the same as if the undertaking using the services of a temporary worker had decided to employ him directly. moreover, these conditions must apply from the first day of employment. but the beneficiaries of the temporary workers' scheme will also be the temporary employment agencies themselves and the entrepreneur who uses this form of employment. temporary work allows companies to manage their staff flexibly, especially in seasonal situations where the company needs to increase the number of employees in order to cope with the market situation.
in writing. −temporary employment agencies employ 3 million workers across the european union. it is estimated that they provide services with a total value of around eur 75 billion. the draft directive on the working conditions of temporary agency workers aims to ensure a minimum level of protection for temporary agency workers while supporting the temporary agency sector. it is an example of legislation of a social nature in a time when the expectation of a social europe is widespread. the basic principle of this legislation is that workers employed by a temporary agency are not discriminated against in terms of pay, social and labour rights and the application of labour law. the prohibition of discrimination will apply to working hours, overtime, holidays and the protection of pregnant women. the protection of workers from the first day of work is a very important element of the directive. the social partners should always be consulted on any derogation from this principle. there is no doubt that there are huge differences in the working conditions and pay of temporary workers today. those differences should be corrected as soon as possible. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the adoption of legislation to protect these workers as soon as possible.
in writing. −as new technologies become more common, computer literacy and internet access are also increasing. one of the largest groups of internet users are children and young people. and while the internet brings with it access to information, it also brings with it risks. children and young people are one of the most vulnerable groups. research indicates that almost all children have been exposed to pornographic images. the trend of decreasing the age of child victims is also of great concern. i think that combating this phenomenon must be a priority. this requires a multi-level approach involving parents, schools, telecom operators, internet service providers, ngos and self-regulatory bodies. in particular, there is a need to improve knowledge and prevent harmful practices, an effective system for reporting abuses and to improve the sources used by the police for investigative purposes. i also believe that large-scale education campaigns should raise children's awareness of the types of risks associated with the use of new technologies. i therefore welcome the provision of €55 million for the years 2009-2013 under the 'safe internet' programme, which was part of the proposal voted. i believe that these funds will help achieve the objectives of the programme.
in writing. −to the eu citizen, an environmentally friendly and energy-efficient vehicle in public road transport seems to be a given. it's becoming a necessity for our cities and for our environment. we should also be mindful of integrating the use of clean cars into our actions in the context of the climate package. therefore, as a member of the committee on the environment, i support most of the actions proposed by the rapporteur (especially technical and organisational measures) which lead to the achievement of the basic objective of reducing pollution by investing in environmentally friendly vehicles with lower co2 emissions. this includes in particular commercial vehicles (e.g. special purpose trucks and buses for operational support, infrastructure maintenance, cleaning machines, etc.). on the other hand, i have some doubts about the proposal to make it compulsory to include co2 emission criteria in public procurement of public transport vehicles. i believe that it is better - at least in the first phase of the new regulation - to leave the contracting authorities in each member state (most often local authorities) the right to choose whether to include environmental criteria in the fleet ordered. i agree with the assessment that public procurement - as a very important part of the european market - should continue to be an instrument for promoting environmentally friendly vehicles, but it should not be done mechanically.
in writing. −in the absence of harmonisation at community level, changes concerning only national marketing authorisations are subject to national rules. in some member states, national requirements for national marketing authorisations only are consistent by analogy with the regulations on the amendment of authorisations. however, in most member states, this is not the case and this leads to divergences in the rules in force in the member states. this has negative consequences for public health, administrative burdens and the overall functioning of the internal market for pharmaceutical products. all medicinal products, irrespective of the authorisation procedure, should be subject to the same criteria for the assessment of the authorisation and the same administrative procedures for the amendment of the authorisations.
in writing. −i have decided to vote against the adoption by the european parliament of the report by mr jan andersson on the challenges to collective agreements in the european union. in his report, the rapporteur criticised the judgments of the european court of justice on the posting of workers directive, calling for a revision of the directive on this basis. i strongly oppose this approach of the rapporteur's, and i believe that calling for a directive to be amended without proper analysis at member state level, especially those affected by the european court of justice's judgments, is unjustified and politically motivated. moreover, the wording used by the rapporteur attacks the freedom to provide services, which is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, by threatening the liberalisation of the provision of services achieved under the services directive and the principle of the country of origin. in my view, the correct implementation of the posting of workers directive by all member states and the strengthening of administrative cooperation between member states is a sufficient measure to guarantee the protection of workers' rights on the one hand and the freedom to provide services on the other. i regret that the members of the european parliament rejected the amendments which were intended to balance the report.
in writing. −the european community aims to guarantee fundamental rights for all citizens, both in social life and in the labour market. our idea is to end discrimination and uncertainty about the future. the rapporteur, jan andersson, stresses that certain judgments of the european court of justice may have undermined citizens' sense of equality and respect in the labour market. to avoid similar situations in the future, mr andersson suggests that urgent action is needed to ensure that european legislation is changed to stem the potentially harmful social, economic and political effects of the ets judgments. the commission is proposing to revise the directive on the posting of workers and to adopt the directive on temporary agency work without delay. in conclusion, i believe that in pursuing the vision of a united europe, the report should be adopted.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? commissioner grybauskaitė, who understands polish, but i think she will be less interested in my part of the budgetary procedure. we're finishing what we used to call the "pilot" procedure. this is a good opportunity to highlight the good cooperation with the bureau, the continuous building of trust between the committee on budgets and the bureau of parliament, which also resulted from the personal initiative of secretary-general rømer. but because nobody is perfect, there are some differences that are reflected in the reserves we made for 2009. the 2009 budget had to respond to a number of specific challenges. this will be an election year, so there are special needs in terms of public communication, which must be financed. this will be the year in which the new status of meps comes into force, which also has financial consequences. i would also like to highlight the new rules on recruitment and remuneration, which are transparent and respond to the needs previously reported, for assistants, and the termination of the pension fund in its current form. the budget also had to be restructured in the second half of 2008 to take account of the most likely scenario of operating on the basis of the old treaties and not implementing the lisbon strategy, which changed the european parliament's powers. we have managed to close the budget below the threshold which we have voluntarily committed to, namely below the 20% threshold for administrative expenditure for the european union institutions. we accept these posts, both in the administration and in the political groups, which are linked to better handling of legislative work, to making life easier for members of the european parliament and to facilitating the new comitology, which should also be taken into account in 2009. we would like, and we are using the reserve tool here, to gradually compensate for certain disparities that have grown over a long period in the various departments of parliament's administration, so that in particular those services that are directly linked to the work of parliamentary committees are strengthened. we note other projects that can improve the work of parliament, namely in the parliament's library, in the so-called knowledge management system. we also note that the new visitor's center will not be operating during the election. they said it would be, but it's not. it is expected to be operational by the end of 2009, which also reflects our staffing reserve. the common philosophy for parliament and for the other institutions is budgetary rigour, namely that in an election year we should not present the european institutions with excessive ambitions in terms of costs and burden on european taxpayers. this applies also to the other institutions, where we have weighed all this, all the decisions taken by the council, and added our own assessment of what these institutions need. i would like to highlight two projects for the court of justice: 39 additional posts linked to the new agency procedure, and for the court of auditors, staff to strengthen the capacity of this organisation, but also to finance the new seat by means of frontloading. tomorrow's vote will be a good one, and a quick one, thanks to the excellent cooperation between the political group coordinators, the opinion committee rapporteurs and the leadership of mr böge. a special thanks goes to the people who have helped me in this work in the secretariat and in the political group, namely richard wester and marianne pari.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. −in view of the ambitious objectives the european union is setting itself, the council is surprised to see a further reduction in the already low level of the budget for 2009. these cuts lead to an even greater disparity between the level of commitments and payments, which is contrary to the principle of equilibrium. the amount of payment appropriations adopted by the council - just 0.89% of gdp - is not at all consistent with many of the union's political priorities and commitments. as a consequence, for example, only a small number of important pro-civil pilot projects will be able to be implemented. as the author of the opinion on the 2009 budget for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am concerned about the lack of proper alignment of the budget with the needs of existing programmes such as progres and dafne. in addition, the european commission should make significant progress in the general implementation of the principle of equal treatment in budgetary planning, and the member states should promote this principle effectively through the use of the structural funds and the european social fund.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the draft budget for 2009 presented, like the ones of previous years, does not meet our expectations, but more importantly, it does not meet the expectations of our voters. its main drawback is the lack of funds for payments. to meet all expectations, it would have to be at least twice as high. the european council cut appropriations and many items had to be reduced - particularly section iii, including agriculture and rural development - but also the european agencies and other sections. i do not think there is a committee or political group in the european parliament that is satisfied. despite the establishment of the political priorities for 2009, among all the priorities, it is not possible to maintain them at a level that would indicate, for financial reasons, that they are being treated in a special way. the budget is formally at the level of the multiannual financial framework, but we all expected it to be higher. the draft budget therefore proposes to restore the initial draft, while abolishing the reductions introduced by the european council. by voting for the bill, we hope to push through the budget deficit. maybe we can get there.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i want to focus on four issues in this debate. first, although the expenditure of this budget of eur 124 billion for payments is the highest in the union's history, the ratio of this expenditure to the gnp of the 27 member states is the lowest ever. this level is suggested by the european parliament's committee on budgets, because the european commission has proposed even lower levels of spending and the council has made even more cuts in this modest budget. in the financial perspective for 2007-13, the ceiling for payment appropriations is 0.97 of gnp, so there is a significant discrepancy between what was wanted to be financed three years ago and what the union wants to finance today. fourthly, and finally, you can't have more europe or deeper integration for so little money. the european union cannot be a true global partner if it is in danger of failing to meet its own commitments in this area.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. 2009 will be a very specific period, as it will be about the real launching of cohesion policy investments. this year will be the third consecutive year of the n+3 rule. it will then be a period in which we can expect not so much the signing of agreements as the full implementation of very specific measures, and any attempt to reduce funding for cohesion policy seems very dangerous. i would also like to point out that there are voices in the european parliament linking the results that have appeared in the court of auditors' audit with budget planning, and therefore the very famous remarks about a dozen or so per cent of the money spent on non-qualified costs are now being thrown into the budget debate. i hope that any such merger and transfer to the reserves will not be accepted either by parliament or by the commissioner.
president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have already spoken too long, but this debate was really quite exciting. i wanted to say that we share the priorities as expressed by your rapporteurs, as recalled by president böge, and that we are indeed willing to work very closely together. i regret that i am not speaking as finance minister, unfortunately, mr böge, but in this presidency, it is the case, and i can simply assure your parliament that we want to reach an agreement in this procedure. i also want to assure you that the council will, within the limits i have indicated, adopt a constructive attitude - i say this to the commission and to your assembly - which we do indeed want, within the framework of the priorities that have been mentioned. i have seen the emphasis that has been placed, in particular, on foreign policy, on communication, on financial regulation, on the euro. i have noted these various points and the needs of your institution, which were mentioned, and that two elements had to be distinguished at the end of this debate. the first is to think about the future of the european budget. i have heard from mrs guy-quint and others, but many of the points that have been raised must be discussed under the clause on the review of the financial framework. it is in this context that the commission, the european parliament and the member states must take a stand when drawing up the future multiannual financial framework. we had discussed this with president böge. the news has also led us, as the presidency, to focus on other urgent matters. and secondly, the challenges of the 2009 budgetary procedure. we must have a realistic and balanced budget and find solutions for financing the food facility - i say this - which remains a shared objective.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am only using this extra time to support the many voices of my colleagues from different political groups who are drawing attention to the critical situation in the fourth budget heading, which funds the european union's international ambitions. i remember well the final negotiations on the financial perspective, where parliament's diagnosis was clear - this is an underfunded department. this is confirmed every year and every year it creates new tensions in the budget negotiations. this will also be apparent this year, since various commitments have been made in relation to food aid, kosovo, afghanistan, palestine, which have been mentioned here many times, and georgia, where the question of the country's orientation is being decided, but also the question of the security of alternative supplies of raw materials. the answer should be an agreed revision of the interinstitutional agreement, not an annual improvisation against the wall, on the borderline of financial rules. i thank all those who have commented on the budget of this parliament and the other institutions.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. we owe it to bosnia and herzegovina to speed up its path to the european union. the european union should feel guilty, guilty of neglect, because when blood was shed in the balkans in the 1990s, when thousands of people were killed, including in bosnia and herzegovina, the union remained silent, took action, whether it was apparent or ineffective, or it did not take action at all. that is why today we must help bosnia and herzegovina, facilitate its march towards the union, while at the same time being aware that its road to brussels is uphill and has many economic and national twists and turns. sarajevo should not be discouraged, but the authorities in sarajevo should be watched. we're giving the green light to the bosnian car today. we want this car not to crash on the road, so that we as the union do not have to punish it with fines, perhaps without judging whether the same car arrives in brussels, the same one that leaves. let the nations that live there have the right to self-determination.
vice-president of the commission. − no, i am not afraid of siemens and i will happily send olaf to investigate these cases, but of course there is a clear legal framework in which we can operate and can go to investigate. we are following the situation, as i said, and we can urge member states and we can demand that they inform us(they have, anyway, the obligation to inform us) and move actively. but there must, at present, be an indication and request from member states for olaf assistance. so far this has not been the case, but we will follow the situation. we have clear and sometimes very sensitive divisions of responsibilities and obligations between member states and community bodies. this is particularly the case where the investigation rules are very precisely defined.
vice-president of the commission. − the lisbon treaty contains three main provisions of the amended treaty on the functioning of the european union which deal with administrative affairs: article 197 on administrative cooperation, article 298 on an open, efficient and independent european administration and article 336 on the staff regulations. article 197 provides for the union to take measures, excluding any harmonisation, to support the efforts of member states to improve their capacity to implement union law. article 336 is amended to change the procedure for adopting the institutions’ staff regulations to ordinary legislative procedure – that means normal codecision – currently, the council acts by qualified majority vote on a proposal from the commission, after consulting the other institution. the new article 298 requires the adoption of regulations ensuring an ‘open, efficient and independent european administration’, which is what we are already trying to do without waiting for the final entry into force of the lisbon treaty.
vice-president of the commission. − i must say, honourable member, that we are trying to improve the work of the administration every day, and at this moment i am having intensive debate with our staff unions about the regulations concerning parliamentary assistants, which is also part of the staff regulations. this definitely brings more transparency and more clarity to this – so far – problematic field. so we are very happy that we have opened many websites which tremendously improve the transparency of our activities. so this work is ongoing. concerning the staff regulations – which is a solid document – this is a huge and complicated project if we really aim to make changes. we will probably discuss with parliament possible changes during next term, but small reforms are ongoing. internally we have just changed the rules onthe so-called ‘career development reviews’. so there are ongoing changes every day, practically.
vice-president of the commission.− this is a good question,one which has often been discussed in the parliamentary committee on budgetary control as well. as thecommissioner responsible for administration and audit and the fight against fraud i am, of course, very concerned;my colleague dalia grybauskaitėand i always ask questions about the necessity of the creation of new bodies, and we insist that the rules which cover the new bodies are as transparent and as clear as they are in our main bodies and headquarters. having agencies which can be more flexible and more precise in implementingeu policies is mainly a policy-making decision. it is very much discussed here in parliament and supported on many separate occasions. i can be the bureaucrat who alwaysraises questions on how to audit and how to control these agencies, but at the same time i do not think that acertain distribution of eu institutions or a certain spreading of eu institutions in europe is a bad idea. so let us balance and weigh both sides: the policy-making needs and gains on one side and administrative clarity and auditing clarity onthe other. we have tried in all decisions to achieve a certain balance.
vice-president of the commission. − i must first say that the commission has no indications that there are more cases of fraud than in other organisations. the commission points out that the british house of lords concluded in a special report that there was no evidence of widespread corruption within the commission and that the level of fraud against the eu budget is no higher than in comparable public spending programmes, including in great britain. on average, olaf opens around 40 internal investigations per year involving officials from all institutions. in around half of these cases it concludes there is a need for follow-up, which can be administrative, disciplinary, judicial, financial or even legislative or a combination of several of these. the commission’s policy of zero tolerance and a formal obligation for officials to report serious wrongdoings without delay contributes to increased vigilance towards possible fraud or corruption. it may also lead to the opening of a significant number of investigations in which the initial suspicions ultimately prove to be groundless. as concerns the commission, 15 members of staff were subject to disciplinary measures in 2007, compared to an average of five staff members between 2004 and 2006. in 2007 sanctions were imposed in seven cases for a variety of breaches, including for external activities not in accordance with the dignity of the function, unauthorised absences and financial irregularities. the staff rules provide a well-developed disciplinary system, with possible sanctions ranging from a simple warning to downgrading and, in the most serious cases, dismissal with or without reduction of pension rights. in addition, a member of staff may be held personally financially liable for the damage incurred by his or her serious personal misconduct.
madam president, commissioner, you have not been on the defensive. of course, the present commission can boast that, compared to mr santer's commission, it is almost like st. francis. i am also interested in one other point, namely whether there have been arrests and trials, and not just dismissals of eu civil servants.
on behalf of the alde group. i'm not going to let you do that. the holodomor, the great famine in ukraine, was one of the most cruel crimes committed in europe in the 20th century. in order to prove the effectiveness of collective farming and destroy the source of the main threat to the communist soviet union - the independent ukrainian peasants - the stalinist regime created an artificial famine that led to the death of several million ukrainians. people were being deprived of all their food. the famine caused mass migration from the countryside to the cities, which the authorities blocked by introducing internal passports and banning rail travel. those who remained in the countryside were thus forced to forage illegally for food in the collective farms, for which they were imprisoned or even killed. they were not allowed to gather even a handful of grain for themselves. the five-barrel law was in effect at the time, and anyone who plucked more than five barrel barrels of grain was subject to the death penalty. in many countries of western europe, the holodomor, the great famine, is still a virtually unknown event. until recently, these historical facts were denied by the soviet union. any statements on this subject, until the fall of the soviet union, were classified as the crime of so-called anti-soviet propaganda. active disinformation measures were used against western journalists. only recently have census records been released that give the number of people who died in the great famine. the famine in ukraine has been recognized as genocide by the governments or parliaments of 26 countries, including my own country, poland. i am convinced that the european parliament will not remain silent on this matter either. we should recognize that the holodomor was a crime against the ukrainian nation and a crime against humanity, and we should strongly condemn the actions of the stalinist authorities against ukrainian farmers. i also believe it's time to disclose all the information about the great famine. the countries of the former soviet union should make available to researchers the archive on the holodomor in ukraine in 1932-1933 in order to allow objective research. this year marks the 75th anniversary of that shocking crime. i wish to express my deepest sympathy to the ukrainian people who have been hard hit by this great tragedy.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. this year marks the 75th anniversary of the great famine in ukraine, which occurred in 1932-1933. the famine was not the result of natural factors, but was the consequence of the genocidal plan of joseph stalin, who, after having disposed of the ukrainian intelligentsia, aimed to eliminate the population of the ukrainian countryside. some 10 million men, women, and children died in the genocide. it was a deliberate and systematic extermination carried out by the soviet authorities. the communists' criminal intentions were clear. while ukrainians were starving, the soviets exported millions of tons of grain, sealed the ukrainian border so that the exhausted population could not cross into russia in search of bread. they refused foreign humanitarian aid, claiming there was no such thing as hunger. now the russian federation is being framed for communist crimes, and stalin is being portrayed as an effective manager. some western countries were silent during this great tragedy of the ukrainian people because they were in the process of establishing diplomatic relations with the soviet union and were interested in economic cooperation. we cannot remain silent today, and it is our duty to honor the memory of the victims of the holodomor.
madam president! the european parliament is commemorating today the 75th anniversary of the great famine in ukraine, one of the greatest crimes against humanity of the 20th century. the famines in ukraine, poland, kazakhstan and other parts of the soviet union in 1932-1933 were not the result of natural causes but of stalin's system of power. the push for collectivization of agriculture, the fight against private ownership in the countryside, the destruction of the middle classes and individual entrepreneurship under totalitarian dictatorship, the state's violence against peasants, led to the famine and the death of many millions of people in appalling conditions. the european union pays tribute to the victims of this crime and pays tribute to the survivors and the last living witnesses to this tragedy. the great famine affected the ukrainian people in a special way. stalin's policy in ukraine meant on the one hand inhuman conditions of collectivization, on the other the suppression of national culture, churches and repression of the intelligentsia. in the 1930's, many ukrainian writers were shot, imprisoned, or sent to concentration camps. in 1932, the existing literary groups were dissolved. the great creators of national culture have died. the shot of the rebirth is a symbol of the fate of ukraine in the 20th century. the great famine in ukraine and other parts of the soviet union remains a major research problem for historians, political system analysts, and totalitarianism researchers. the theme of the great famine must not be subject to ideological manipulation or nationalist politics. it is necessary to open all the archives of the stalinist system, the laborious research that will allow to determine the number of victims, an accurate, scientific description of the causes, course and consequences of the great famine. the truth about the past can be used to promote reconciliation, to shape a democratic culture and to build a lasting foundation for europe. i would like to remind you of the great work of the polish emigrant, the editor jerzy giedroyc, whose "paris culture" contributed to the understanding between poland and ukraine. i would like to cite in the european parliament the anthology of persecution of ukrainian writers, "rozstrilane widrodżennia", edited by yuri lavrinenko and published by the paris-based "kultura" in ukrainian in 1957, and the polish-ukrainian chronicle, "kultura" from 1952, by professor bohdan osadczuk, as examples of european work to overcome the fatalism of history and to shape reconciliation between nations for the sake of a future democratic community.
madam president! in 1932-1933, the soviet authorities seized agricultural products from collective farms in ukraine, using force to deprive their workers of food. the resulting famine, known in ukraine as the holodomor, killed millions of people in a country renowned for its fertility. since the target of this operation, for which stalin and his collaborators bear responsibility, were ukrainian peasants as a social and national group, the crime of the holodomor meets the definition of genocide in the un convention of 1948. the resolution we have drawn up on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the holodomor is a compromise that largely captures the essence of this crime. the only thing missing is a clear indication that the holodomor was a genocide. it's the result of resistance from certain groups in this chamber. during the compromise negotiations, i learned that a group of socialists are opposed to discussing history at all. this is an interesting statement, considering that european socialists are always eager to condemn nazism and general franco, and equally emotionally refuse to do so in the case of the crimes of the soviet authorities or the spanish republicans. during these negotiations, i also heard that the memory of the victims requires respect, and that the avoidance of words like genocide. this kind of moralizing and selective memory shows that among european socialists, historical materialism is turning into hysterical relativism. i hope that this does not apply to all the members on the left of this house. i also heard that socialists are against the historical truth vote. that's right! the problem is that we're not talking about the truth about holodomor, we're voting the truth about ourselves. a resolution on history is always a declaration of values, and not taking a stand is also a stand. that means the voices are empty. how can you define your value system other than by evaluating past events? genocide is genocide, whether it was committed by hitler or stalin or how it is judged by the russian authorities today. to think that the victims of the holocaust deserve less attention than hitler's gas chambers today is to question one's own credibility. before the law and the truth, we are all equal!
madam president! the holocaust is a fact and a symbol of one of the most inhumane methods of killing. the ideology that was supposed to serve the common people, the workers, took on a form that is unimaginable today. and it was simple: no need for guns, no need for soldiers to kill, no need for gas ovens. all they had to do was take everything the land produced, and the so-called rebellious citizens disappeared from their villages because they didn't fit the system. they were pushing people towards a utopian vision, a vision that was terrible and expensive, and yet still appealing to many and defended by some of the colleagues on the left of this chamber. bolshevik ideology used methods of implementation that can not be justified. my phd student in ukraine has been studying the trauma of people who have managed to survive this socialist horror, although there are exceptions. well, interviews show that there was a famine that led to cannibalism, like a mother sending her 6-year-old son to the forest for the winter because in the countryside he wouldn't survive, he would be eaten. on one side, we have the 20th century, the 1930s, the so-called enlightened father and friend of the people, joseph stalin, who foretold the world revolution, and on the other side, millions of people with bloated bellies dying in the streets. it must have been a terrible picture, even for the political leaders in power. that's what happened in eastern ukraine. but 10 years later, something similar in quality to the tragedy of the poles in what was then eastern poland occurred, albeit on a smaller scale. the ukrainian upa's nationalist ideology, in collaboration with the nazi nazis, led to the ethnic cleansing of poles. the methods were equally cruel: burning alive, ripping open the bellies of pregnant women, beheading children with axes. men were at war then. to this day, this golgotha of the east, as survivors call it, is the subject of taboo and shameful silence. ironically, there are monuments to the leaders of the nationalists of that time. perhaps it is a good circumstance that while we are paying tribute to the victims of the holodomor, we also pay tribute to the memory of the poles and ukrainians who were brutally murdered and who did not agree with this ideology. it is not easy to admit such facts, but otherwise it is difficult to bring the nations closer together, to accept ukraine in the area of european values, which we are currently seeking here. i understand the russian protests against the union. if you talk about the holodomor, as they suggest, you have to talk about the extermination of the indians in the new world by the colonists. the holocaust deserves to be condemned in a special way. add to this the millions of people deported to siberia for forced labor or death camps during world war ii - ukrainians, poles, tatars. i'll just say for the information of this assembly that of the approximately 100,000 prisoners of the stalingrad paulist army deported to siberia, only 5,000 survived until 1955. for the sake of europe, its parliament cannot downplay these 20th century tragedies.
mao tse tung once said, when asked if it was worth risking nuclear war to overthrow capitalism, that it was worth sacrificing the lives of at least a hundred million people so that the rest of us could live happily under communism. joseph stalin reasoned with the same horrible, criminal logic. as resistance to collectivization grew in the countryside, he decided to physically eliminate those who lived in the most resistant regions. these were regions inhabited by ukrainians. their liquidation also solved the national problem, because as stalin said on another occasion, and i quote, "the national problem is basically the problem of the peasantry". and so, as a result of a criminal, planned action, millions of people starved to death in ukraine alone. suffice it to say that even according to official statistics, the population of ukraine in 1926 was well over 31 million, and in 1939, despite strong natural growth, ukraine had only 28 million inhabitants. not only did the people of soviet ukraine starve to death. administrative requisitions of all food, combined with the prohibition of its import from other regions, also caused starvation in the volga, kuban and the north caucasus. these lands were populated by ukrainians, but also by russians. today we are taking up the issue of hunger in ukraine to also give witness to our conviction that this is still too little known a part of the dramatic history of our common europe. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! there have been many terrible murders in the past century. some were executed by shooting, gassing, killing with axes and forks, but there were others who were starved to death. in what was then soviet ukraine, this murder was carried out by starving millions of people in an area that has some of the best soil in the world. it was done on purpose, not by weather or by cataclysm. he is outraged that during the years of this genocide the ukrainians, poles, russians were not named, as he is still outraged by the failure to name the genocide committed against hundreds of thousands of poles, jews and ukrainians opposing fascism by ukrainian nationalists on the former and current territory of poland during world war ii. it is all the more outrageous that the lack of a trial justifies and legitimizes the actions of organizations that today invoke the legacy of murderers. these organisations are legally operating in europe today. there is no politically correct genocide. each one must be named and judged.
madam president! today, the european parliament remembers the victims of one of the greatest crimes of stalinism - the victims of the great famine, which was deliberately instigated by the despotic bolshevik regime in power in the soviet union, and which was intended to weaken and destroy the ukrainian people and thus stifle their aspirations for freedom and the rebuilding of their own independent state. in ukraine, as well as in some regions of southern russia, the northern caucasus and kazakhstan, there have been horrific, shocking acts of despair, suffering and desperation as whole families starve to death. today we want to pay tribute to all those who were murdered during the great famine in ukraine. the victims of mass murder, war crimes and ethnic cleansing deserve the same memory and recognition for their wrongs. no matter in whose name crimes are committed or for what ideological purposes, the suffering of the victims is an inherent part of it. we stand in solidarity with the ukrainian people, but we ask that ukraine also reckon with its black cards of history. i remind you that between 1939 and 1945 the nationalists of the ukrainian insurgent army brutally murdered 150,000 poles, mostly women and old men. the husbands and fathers who were exiled to siberia were living hell, but they had hope that their families back on the kress were safe. unfortunately, these families were the victims of nationalists who saw no place for their polish neighbors in the new ukrainian state. the victims of the kresch massacre await the day when their fate will be written into the social consciousness of europe, just as the fate of the victims of the great famine has been written into the social consciousness of europe today.
madam president! it was only after the collapse of the eastern bloc that we began to learn the terrifying truth about what happened in ukraine and other parts of the soviet union during the stalinist years. totalitarianism has kept the world from knowing these cruel acts against humanity. the great famine in ukraine in 1932-1933 is a historical fact that was denied by the communist authorities throughout the existence of the soviet union. we learned of countless innocent people who were sentenced to slow starvation. although many years have passed since the days of the holodomor, we still do not know how many victims stalin's policies have claimed. i would like to emphasize that the declaration of the great famine as genocide or the exposure of stalinist totalitarianism is in no way directed against the kremlin, as is often portrayed. it's a tribute to the victims of a totalitarian system. the european union, as an international institution so committed to human rights, should take a clear and unequivocal position. if we want to honour the memory of the victims in a dignified and appropriate way, we should adopt a resolution which clearly shows the historical truth and expresses the solidarity and compassion of the european union.
madam president! today, on the threshold of the 21st century, it's hard to imagine what mass starvation is. we also have difficulty in answering the question of how it could have happened that in ukraine, which could have fed all of europe, so many millions of people died of hunger. it was the result of communist totalitarianism, children, women, men - ukrainians, but also people of other nationalities living in the territory of the then soviet union - were killed. what do you call a crime that happened 75 years ago? i think there's only one word for it: genocide! there, for plucking five ears from a kolkhoz field, the penalty was death or a year in a camp. today, when we talk about this event, we're not talking about russia. we want to pay tribute to the victims of communism and say clearly: never again such crimes.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i too join in congratulating mr stockman on the result of this work. we're talking about things that need to be regulated, and my liberal soul is not against regulation. nor does it rebel against the regulatory institutions. we see it today after the financial crisis that the free market should work and it should work, but we should create systems that in a modern economy are able to regulate mechanisms that sometimes interfere or sometimes override the usual mechanisms of economic competition, pure free market competition. today we're talking about the finale of a documentary, a work that we started, and we said to ourselves right away that it would be a long road, because regulating any natural monopoly -- and airports, for obvious reasons, are governed in a significant part by the rules of natural monopoly -- is a very difficult road. i think the result - and here again i congratulate the rapporteur - is very positive. it is a step forward in the interest of our citizens, in the interest of the citizens of the european union, who will receive the next thing from this house and from the work of the european commission as something very tangible, concrete for their lives. i congratulate those who have taken part in the work and hope that now, in the two years of implementation, the governments of the member states will rise to the challenge.
madam president! i should like to begin by congratulating mr ulrich stockmann, our rapporteur. he did a very good job of going into the draft law, firstly, in an innovative way, considering that he simply wanted to work with the commission and the council to produce a very good draft and he did. i would like to stress first of all the initiative to clarify the definition of airport charges, secondly the network of airports we take into account, and finally the level of quality of service and the correlation with the responsibilities of airport managers. and what's also important, especially for new countries, is funding new infrastructure projects. we are given a draft directive which, from the passenger's point of view, makes us feel that in europe those who benefit know how much they have to pay, why they have to pay so much and what will happen to that money. this is a significant step towards creating a truly european system or network of european airports. i would like to congratulate you on this and i firmly believe that this draft directive will serve civil aviation well.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. mr stockmann has earned our respect. it's a really good compromise. i'm going to the hospital. we're finalising the airport fee work today. in two years' time, a uniform system of counting them will be in place throughout the union. the ports that will be affected are those that handle more than 5 million passengers per year and the largest airports in a country. it's debatable, but i think the numbers are good. according to my understanding, this will cover about 80 airports in the union. the specific character of the adopted provisions should be that they are transparent, which should be promoted by independent supervisory authorities. airports in disadvantaged regions will be able to apply the appropriate preferences. environmental aspects have also been taken into account and the situation of people with disabilities has been recognised. i hope that this directive will not only ensure fair competition at airports, but also help to increase passenger safety and to protect passengers against excessive charges for take-off and landing.
on behalf of the uen group. i'm not going to let you do that. mr. commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would like to begin by congratulating mrs zdravkova on her report, which is a very good report. this report indicates both how good the ombudsman's work is, but also how good the ombudsman's cooperation with the european parliament and with the committee on petitions, which is, as it were, delegated by the european parliament to deal with the ombudsman. this report was adopted unanimously, even without abstentions. this indicates that we share ms zdravkova's opinion of the very good work of the ombudsman. the ombudsman frequently attends our meetings of the committee on petitions and always gives us full information on his work, and there is always a representative of the ombudsman present at committee meetings, including here, for which we thank him very much, because it shows that we are watching each other's work. the number of complaints found admissible points to two things. the fact that the european union public watches your work and, by watching your work, is better able to identify which complaints can be addressed to you. because it's not because you've changed your policy on what's acceptable and what's not. you always remain objective, and your work indicates that people appreciate and understand it more and more. together with the european court of justice and your office, the committee on petitions works to bring the european union and its institutions closer to the people. and that is your success! we would like to thank you and mrs zdravkova for their report.
madam president! some citizens of the member states seem to regard the european ombudsman as their god, asking him to intervene and deal with matters that are completely outside his competence. this is evidenced by the fact that only one in six complaints to the ombudsman can be dealt with by him for formal reasons. this means that they are completely unaware of who the european ombudsman is, what his powers are, what his area of activity is. it is not the fault of the citizens of the member states, it is the fault of the eu institutions, which are unable to explain to the public of the member states of the union what the ombudsman's powers are. if this does not change, citizens of the member states will continue to write to the ombudsman, then wonder why he is unable to intervene. it is also worrying that more than 1000 complaints to the ombudsman were not dealt with and that the ombudsman did not take any action, which was also noted in the report.
madam president! despite an overall increase in the number of admissible complaints received by the ombudsman in 2007, there were 17% more cases opened than in the previous year. it is worth noting that the number of inadmissible complaints has decreased significantly compared to 2006, which indicates a better understanding of the ombudsman's competence on the part of the complainants. the report shows that the ombudsman exercised his powers in an active and balanced way during the year, both in dealing with complaints and in maintaining constructive relations with the institutions and bodies of the european union and in encouraging citizens to exercise their rights. however, much remains to be done to ensure that citizens receive prompt and substantive answers to their questions, complaints and petitions and, above all, that the grounds for complaint begin to disappear, that is, that we achieve a marked improvement in the clarity of decision-making and the functioning of the european union's administration, which is the main complaint of citizens.
rapporteur. −mr president, there are no technical adjustments this time, so we can vote. (applause)
in writing. −the vote on the eu budget for 2009 by centre-right and centre-left forces in the european parliament with the participation of greek meps from the national democratic party, the pasok and the lao people's party, signals the intensification of anti-people politics against workers. in the context of the lisbon strategy, at a time of crisis in the capitalist system, the eu is making use of the budget and shifting the burden of this crisis onto the workers, accelerating capitalist restructuring, promoting tough anti-union measures to crack down on collective agreements, the widespread introduction of flexible forms of employment, the privatisation of public social services and insurance schemes. the eu and the ec are promoting eu imperialist action and increasing funds for the militarization of the eu in order to open the way for the penetration of european monopolies in third countries. with the policy of the pyramid of the carrot and the stick, it seeks to manipulate the workers' movement by strengthening its repressive mechanisms for the strike of the workers' popular struggles. at the same time, it seeks to bring the consensus of workers to the logic of the single european road through social dialogue. the kke's european parliamentary group opposes the deeply class budget and the imperialist designs of capital and the eu.
in writing. −the airport charges directive will put an end to longstanding discussions and disputes between airports and airlines over the cost and quality of air services. the new rules will also protect passengers from excessive airport charges and will put an end to the practice of charging exorbitant prices at large airports. in practice, the costs incurred by airlines in connection with the use of airports have so far been borne by consumers. the directive aims to increase transparency and the rules for the collection of airport charges. it also lays down more detailed rules on the quality of the services to be provided and establishes independent supervisory authorities. the new directive will finally make airport charges cost-effective and eliminate discrimination between specific airlines. the directive will apply to the 67 largest european airports, which handle more than 5 million passengers a year (including okęcie), and to the most important airport in a given eu member state. by 2010, the number of airports covered will increase by a further 10.
in writing. −between 2000 and 2006, there were 2.4 thousand acts of piracy recorded worldwide. except for the cases that the trucking companies don't report because they're afraid of higher insurance rates. according to australian government estimates, the true number of pirate attacks is 2,000 percent higher. piracy is causing losses of between 13 and 16 billion dollars a year, and that number could increase significantly in the coming years. somalia is just the tip of the iceberg. since 2000, the most dangerous areas in the world have been the coastal waters of southeast asia, as well as those of malaysia, indonesia, nigeria, iraq and tanzania. maritime piracy is not only a major threat to people, but also to maritime safety. the eu should do everything it can to combat this practice.
in writing. −international financial reporting standards (ifrss) provide a good foundation for the harmonisation of accounting standards worldwide. the widespread use of globally accepted accounting standards will improve the transparency and comparability of financial statements. it will benefit both businesses and investors. the united states shall only recognise financial statements prepared in accordance with ifrs as issued by the international accounting standards board (iasb). however, the united states agrees to a short transition period during which the financial statements prepared under ifrs as adopted under european community regulation no 1606/2002 will be accepted without the need for adjustment.
in writing. −on 19 may 2008, the european ombudsman, nikiforos diamandouros, presented his report to the committee on petitions. in it, he gave a detailed account of his activities, giving figures and percentages. the report shows that the number of admissible complaints lodged with the ombudsman increased from 449 in 2006 to 518 in 2007. last year, the number of inadmissible complaints decreased compared to 2006. the complaints were based on a variety of grounds: lack of transparency, refusal to provide information, abuse of power, inadequate procedures, unjustified delay, discrimination, negligence, legal errors. the european commission received the highest number of complaints (64%). only 9% of the requests addressed to the ombudsman concerned the european parliament. the european ombudsman also draws attention to the failings of the european institutions. mr diamandouros criticised the european commission for not publishing in 2006 the legally required 2005 annual report on access to european parliament, council and commission documents.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? the death of mr. julio soto in maracaibo requires a thorough investigation. my condolences to his family. we demand that the perpetrators of this crime be brought to justice and punished. human rights watch's observations and information are noteworthy, especially given its independence from any subsidies. we protest against the disruption of this organization. we expect full respect for freedom of expression in the media and freedom of association. we expect full implementation of laws guaranteeing the protection of women from violence. we expect the november elections to be held in such a way that there are no objections not only to the electoral process but also to the course of the election campaign. venezuela should be a democratic country where it is possible to live in the same free conditions as in any european union country.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the resolution on human rights violations in venezuela is based on facts and is a commendable action. unfortunately, for many years, venezuela has been a society where political forces have been polarized, such as the coup d'état of parts of the army, intolerance, wealth stratification, racial differences, with the most active being the team of president chavez, who in the presidential system has the ability to control the administration and the military. as a result of this battle of decision-making, venezuela's social order is moving towards cubanization - socialism with historical-nationalist elements, which may result in a change of the national flag and anthem. the current changes do not have a major impact on living standards, as the country has huge natural resources that limit the effects of changes and allow populist actions to be taken. the situation is so serious that a resolution alone, without the actual support of all the countries of the region, will not stop the process of further restricting the rights of citizens in this country.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. today's debate on human rights violations in venezuela due to the lack of respect for the country's constitutionally guaranteed civil and political rights, the opposition to the current government, the inability of opposition representatives to stand for election, the lack of freedom of expression, and the expulsion of international observers, is a good opportunity to address the democratic deficit, not only in venezuela. the debate is also an opportunity to call for truth in public and political life. the quest for absolute power is a temptation that affects not only the president of venezuela but also the leaders of many other countries and powers who seek to subjugate poorer or dissenting citizens. chavez's neo-liberal doctrine, called christian socialism, has little in common with the church's social teachings, and the local bishopric has criticized the lack of democracy. but sometimes we come across the gospel passage about the beam and the splinter in the eye.
we're going to talk about how dramatic, how tragic the situation is in the congo, where we have hundreds, thousands of victims. venezuela seems less of a problem in this situation, because there was a violation of electoral rights, expulsion from the country. but we've already got our first murder of a student leader. it's very important to raise this issue now, because we have to remember that it always starts with violating democratic rights. it always starts with an abuse of power when there's no argument, and then it leads to a crime. that is why this resolution makes sense - as a signal, as a warning that this dangerous process is being recognized, that it is still possible to remedy and prevent genocide.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? in the congo, polish clergy are amongst others, who organise protection of the civilian population, especially women and children, from violence in their missions. polish troops have participated in peacekeeping missions, which is why the drama in the congo is close to me. the situation in north kivu and the pacification of the ituri region are of particular concern. the brutal examples of massacres, rape of women and girls, and the recruitment of children into the army have been a daily occurrence in this country for many years. we call on the governments of the democratic republic of congo and rwanda to engage in constructive dialogue to bring the congo out of its humanitarian crisis. i can say one thing - in fact, the only real act so far that has blocked this conflict was the reaction of the south african workers who refused to unload the chinese weapons. we call on the governments of the great lakes region to engage in dialogue to stop the violence in the congo. i call on the european commission to step up medical assistance to the civilian population in the congo, in particular to women and girls who have been infected as a result of rape.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. the peace agreement concluded in goma on 28 january 2008 has not solved the problems and brought calm to the eastern areas of the democratic republic of the congo. the rape of women, including young girls, continued, as did looting and the forced recruitment of civilians and children into the armed forces. atrocities were committed by all parties to the conflict - the rebel group, the democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda, and the congolese army. the renewed fighting has made the struggle that began four years ago, in effect, continue and intensify. finally, disturbing reports are coming in from north kivu of hundreds of dead bodies being thrown into the river and about 100,000 people being displaced. war brings not only death but also destruction, increased hunger, and widespread demoralization. the congolese authorities and army alone cannot solve the problems in the region international help is needed, including from the european union. material, food, and medical assistance are also urgently needed. the uen parliamentary group fully supports the proposed resolution. the good of man and his right to life and peace must prevail.
- mr president, i have to ask you to stop. the burmese military junta has failed to deliver on the promises it made to the international community after the so-called sapphire revolution. it has failed to improve the situation of its people, who are rebelling and demanding their rights. neither the brutal suppression of widespread protests in september this year nor the prison system will replace democracy and development. burma must move towards democracy, freedom of expression, association and assembly, multiparty democracy and the release of political prisoners, an independent judiciary and an end to ethnic cleansing. burma needs help. the un, its secretary-general, the international committee of the red cross, the european commission and the governments of countries with influence over the burmese authorities must therefore be more active. the union for a europe of nations, on whose behalf i speak, and on behalf of the authors, i support and bring forward this resolution, asking for the support of the members of parliament.
- mr president, i have to ask you to stop. burma is becoming a permanent subject of the european parliament's deliberations. we return to the situation in burma at every session of the european parliament in strasbourg. the forthcoming asem summit is an opportunity for the european union, represented by the french presidency, to put forward key issues to the burmese authorities. first, the release of political prisoners. according to amnesty international, there are currently about 2,100 political prisoners in burma. second, to stop torturing people in prisons. the risk of being tortured is a daily occurrence in burma. and finally, thirdly, in military actions against national minorities, at this moment, especially against the karen, the military must respect human rights, it must respect professional conduct. violence and crimes against the population cannot be accepted by the european union. finally, the eu's tactics must take account of real effects. it is worth considering whether the sanctions are more harmful to the burmese people or the burmese government. this tactic must be smart. the eu's sanctions tactics against burma should also be reconsidered. so on the one hand, demanding human rights, democratic freedoms, and on the other hand, tactics that will allow the international community to be effective in burma.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: a year after the brutal suppression of buddhist monks' protests, the international community remains divided over how to deal with one of the world's most repressive regimes. europe and the united states are tightening sanctions and voicing their outrage at human rights violations - as we are doing here today. on the other hand, myanmar's regional neighbors: china, india, russia, asean countries refuse to openly criticize the burmese regime under the pretext of not interfering in the country's internal affairs. that is why i support what mr matsakis has already said. the european commission should be more courageous and open in its discussions with china, russia and asean. the second problem is the un-level action, which is completely ineffective. he was heralded as a breakthrough before the last general assembly on burma. there was no breakthrough. the european commission and the member states should actively work to do more on the burmese issue at the international level.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is less than four months since the european parliament last adopted a resolution warning of the dramatic internal situation in burma. the ruling military regime has not actually fulfilled any of the promises made to the international community after last year's uprising. there is a risk that the un secretary general will cancel his december visit if the situation in the country does not improve. the number of political prisoners has risen to 2,000, and they are still being held in inhumane conditions with no access to medical care. nobel peace prize winner and sakharov prize laureate aung san suu kyi has been in captivity for 17 years. the burmese regime continues to restrict fundamental human rights and freedoms, including access to independent sources of information. the persecuted minority of the karen people seek refuge in thailand, living in poverty, as do the people of the hurricane-hit areas, where the regime has cut off humanitarian aid, putting thousands of its citizens at risk of starvation. we should demand that the burmese authorities lift all restrictions on the delivery of humanitarian aid and restore basic freedoms in the country. strong efforts should be made to ensure the implementation of the visit of the un secretary-general to burma and the involvement of the national league for democracy in the preparations for the 2010 elections. china and india should exert political and economic pressure on the burmese regime by withholding aid to the burmese military, and the international community should apply economic sanctions, including the freezing of funds of government members and others associated with them.
mr. chairman, please! if there's only one opponent to power, it's very, very weak. but if our voices are heard from this assembly, as well as from other countries, it will be a message to other citizens of oppressed countries that it is worth and worth it to speak the truth and to oppose the regime. so it's an empowerment for people. on the other hand, beyond the mere word, concrete steps must be taken to show the junta that oppression will not pay off in the end, because it translates both to the people and to the government itself, and so these two decisive steps must be taken and unfortunately repeated until the end. i believe that the truth will win and the more people speak the truth in burma itself, the stronger they will be.
mr. chairman, please! i wish to speak on the construction of a bypass around the city of augustow in poland. the prolonged wait for the european court of justice's ruling on this case means more road fatalities involving pedestrians. nearly two million trucks pass through the city center each year. the european commission's blocking of any road investment in the podlasie region due to numerous reserve projects significantly deprives this region of poland of the opportunity to develop further. the european commission has decided to turn these areas into scenic areas and, following the example of western countries, to turn them into tourist and landscape bases. the absence of the augustow bypass, the protection of the environment at all costs, without paying attention to the people, deprives the inhabitants of north-eastern poland of the chance for development and a dignified life. the european commission should take this into account. nature must be protected, but not at the expense of human life!
mr. chairman, please! on november 14th, in poznań, as every year, there was an equality march. a group of my young colleagues, members of the federation of young social democrats, took part. they promoted diversity yes, intolerance no. it is part of the great campaign of the party of european socialists for months now for tolerance in europe. after the demonstration, a dozen bandits attacked the group, beat them, and tore the banners with the logo of the party of european socialists. one of the injured has been taken to hospital. i expect that those responsible for this incident will be found and punished by the appropriate polish authorities. i expect that political banditry, which replaces dialogue, will be universally condemned by those who make politics.
mr. chairman, please! the eu-russia summit in nice ended on friday, a summit called in haste to make time for the g20 meeting. the european union has in fact decided to resume negotiations with russia on the partnership agreement, thus contradicting its own decisions of 1 september of that year when it decided that there would be no negotiations with russia unless russian troops withdrew from the occupied territories of georgia. the european union is behaving like an old man who remembers perfectly well what he was doing 50 years ago when the treaties of rome were drawn up, but does not remember what he was doing two months ago when he gave himself and europe a definite say on this very important issue. today, she's reneging on her own commitments and throwing away what we agreed to on september 1st. in this context, the question is whether the human rights that we in the european parliament very often seek to promote around the world should also be applied in european countries such as georgia and russia, when the european union is simply acting like pontius pilate on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! the balance sheet of ten years of economic and monetary union must be assessed in an international context. the question is where the european union has shown its superiority over its main competitors in the world, i.e. the united states and asia. this is a clear indication that the euro area balance sheet is negative. the european union has developed more slowly than its competitors. the growth in employment, and more importantly, the growth in productivity, was lower than in the united states, let alone asia. this is proof that the euro as a single currency is failing to fulfil its essential role. the next aspect concerns the future of the euro area: the documents of the european central bank and the union authorities increasingly emphasise the need to use the euro as a tool to force the unification of economic policies in the member states. this is mainly a matter of budgetary and tax policy. this declaration is a cause for concern for the backward countries, especially the newly admitted ones. how can they develop and catch up with the old countries of the union if they are forced to adopt policies that slow down economic growth in all the member states? the main complaint against the european central bank is that, in its efforts to make the euro a world currency, it does not pay attention to the economic problems of backward regions and countries and does not take them into account. it also does not take into account social aspects such as demographic structure, mobility of citizens. the attitude of the union authorities is all the more unacceptable, since both germany and france have for a number of years failed to comply with the strict rules of maastricht, because they considered that this was in their national interest. moreover, they have not been held accountable or punished for their actions. i therefore believe that what is desirable is not the continuation of the current economic doctrine in the euro area, but a radical change in it, which will not only counteract the current financial crisis but, above all, will release its own energy for the economic development of each of the countries of the union.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate i want to draw attention to two issues which, in my view, cast a shadow over the functioning of economic and monetary union. first, the non-euro area countries are growing faster than the euro area countries. between 2002 and 2007, the three old non-euro area member states, namely england, sweden and denmark, grew significantly faster than the euro area countries. gdp in these countries grew almost twice as fast as the euro area average, and unemployment was significantly lower than in the euro area. this difference between the euro area countries and the new member states is even more pronounced. secondly, the unequal treatment of candidate and participating countries in the economic and monetary union. the countries applying for economic and monetary union already have to meet strict fiscal and monetary criteria two years before the adoption of the currency, while the two largest eu countries - germany and france - which are in the euro area, have exceeded the deficit threshold for four years in the period 2002-05. it took the stability and growth pact to be amended for both countries to avoid multi-billion euro penalties for non-compliance.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. you're in luck, because today's debate on the success of the euro is taking place at the very moment when eurostat has reported that the countries with a common currency are entering a serious recession. it should be self-criticism, not the unconscious propaganda of success. the authors of the report praise the decline in unemployment, which has been just over 1.5% for nine years, but forecasts a significant increase in unemployment in the euro area next year. the other side of the coin is also not very pleasant, highlighted by the report clearly unsatisfactory economic growth and a significant reduction in labour productivity (from 1.5% in the 1990s to 0.75% in the last decade). as you can see, the euro is neither a panacea for all economic problems nor an instrument that by definition allows for faster economic growth and greater prosperity than in the non-euro area member states of the union - sweden, denmark, the united kingdom.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i share the view that the euro is a great european success. we have low prices for several years, low inflation, low interest rates, price transparency between countries, macroeconomic stability and this is particularly successful in countries that until now, before the euro, had problems with inflation and budget deficits. i agree that it's a success. i would also like to refer to what my polish colleague said a few minutes ago, that we have rising unemployment and a financial crisis in the euro area. this friend of mine left, because if he had stayed, he might have heard some words of wisdom. well, he doesn't realize that without the euro, europe would be in a much worse position than it is today. and this is very clear when you look at the situation of countries like iceland and hungary, which are facing enormous economic difficulties. if they were part of the eurozone, they would be in a much better position. i mean, the long-term success of a currency will be determined by real factors, it will be determined by long-term economic dynamics. that's what europe lacks. it should be noted that the us dollar has strengthened against the euro in recent weeks, which shows that even in the context of the crisis, investors, or at least a large proportion of them, believe that the dollar is a safe haven for investment. we need to create the basis for long-term growth in europe, which will be a factor in strengthening the european currency. that's what reforms are for, that's what economic dynamism is for, that's what faster pace of productivity is for. secondly, commissioner, and prime minister, i think we should look again at the criteria for nominal convergence, but we should also make the criteria, especially the inflation criterion and the way in which the reference value is calculated, adapt to the changed conditions, so that the very dynamic economies of the new member states can also join the euro area.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft report on the principle of equal pay for women and men contains sound data on equal pay for work of equal value. equal pay is necessary, as is adequate remuneration for jobs dominated by women because of their psychophysical predispositions. the impact of the regulations already written in many senselessly duplicated documents is certainly dependent on the effective enforcement of the law in the individual member states. however, enforcement can be very difficult in the context of the predominant private sector, where for-profit entrepreneurs are primarily not ethical, moral, and trade union-based, and this makes it difficult for unions to defend workers and participate in wage negotiations. the problem of wage inequality is therefore one of the elements of discrimination against the weaker. it does not take scientists or experts to understand that discrimination is primarily the result of left-wing materialistic ideology, lack of ethical principles, personal underdevelopment, selfishness, greed, exploitation of the weak and the poor, which is not only about earnings but is becoming an increasingly common practice in the european union, which even affects the poorer and weaker countries, discrimination against catholics and people who have different opinions from the political correctness that prevails here.
mr. chairman, please! women in the european union earn on average 15 to 25% less than men. in addition, the system of pay taking into account years of service in the calculation of pay is unfavourable to women, who often have to interrupt their professional career for family reasons. raising children, changing jobs or reducing working hours places women in a situation of permanent structural delay. the concept of equal pay for work of equal value cannot be confused with stereotypes about gender, social roles which have so far strongly influenced vocational and educational choices, and maternity and parental leave cannot be a reason for discrimination against women in the labour market. the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation is an integral part of the community acquis which member states should implement as soon as possible. the objective of eliminating the pay gap should be urgently introduced in the employment guidelines and regular pay audits and the threat of sanctions should curb any discrimination, especially on the basis of sex.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about a very important issue, and it's characteristic that there were only two male voices on this issue. in the case of congressman bloom, the man's voice sounded so masculine that it was virtually impossible to agree with him. we're considering a very important report. we're looking at a report where we know that work is a high value, work must be well paid, and that well paid should be differentiated based on criteria such as the type of work done, productivity, ability to add value, not gender. but there are also changes in the member states. i would like to mention my own country, for example, where recently, very recently, we have also been able to grant paternity leave to fathers as part of the equality process, so we are getting closer, we are on the right track.
mr. chairman, please! women don't get paid the same for the same work. however, their pay may also be lower because of work in low-paid sectors and shorter-term, lower-quality forms of employment. inequality in pay also leads to inequality in social benefits, primarily pensions. on the one hand, lower wages for the same jobs and on the other, shorter employment periods due to maternity duties are the causes of poverty among women of retirement age. so, the pay gap hits women twice. it is worth noting that the law usually prohibits discrimination and practice indicates that discrimination continues. so the key issue is enforcement.
mr. chairman, please! there is no reason to discriminate against women in this regard, there is no reason to argue. three quick points: on an economic level, wages are supposed to be the equivalent of the results of work on a merit basis, no matter who does the work. secondly, europe is ageing whether we like it or not. perhaps a bonus should be considered for women who do the same work as men, and at the same time they decide to have children and they mainly raise them, ensuring the continuity of the population. and the third thing is, a good example of this is academic environments, at least the ones i know, where the opportunity is equal, and the pay is simply based on performance. maybe this model could be used in other sectors.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to join those male voices, which were unfortunately so few in today's debate, who recognise that public debate and the political agenda for such an important issue as pay and equal pay for women and men is one of the most important issues guaranteed and rights guaranteed in national and european legislation. i can say that i, like everyone else, disagree with the idea of gender pay. it may depend on education, experience, but it's definitely not gender. i have the impression that the national legislation and the eu legislation in this area are quite extensive, and i would say quite good, but i am concerned that they are not enforced, they are not enforced because of a lack of tradition. the european court of justice has repeatedly confirmed that it is not enforceable. so it's not just about making more laws, it's about enforcing the laws.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a debate that addressed a problem that is simply unacceptable. there are no real and defensible reasons why this should continue to be the case, why women should continue to have lower average wages than men. in the debate you have indicated all the different approaches and all the different problems that are associated with this pay gap, and i think it was clear from the debate how complex this is. i would like to say that this issue is on the european political agenda, not only because the commission has dealt with this problem in several of its documents, but also because the commission is preparing a possible revision of the current rules, and of course because parliament is dealing with this subject thanks to the report by mrs bauer, which i would like to commend once again. but also because the trio, the three presidencies that followed, did not vote in lille, but nevertheless adopted an action plan which makes this a question for the three successive presidencies, i.e. the french, the czech and the swedish. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to point out that, in addition to this action plan, the member states have presented concrete measures in this area in the lille debate, and some of them, i must say, were very radical and, in my view, can bring results. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you once again for the opportunity to speak, for the debate, and i want to say that the commission is fully prepared to work with parliament on this matter so that we can gradually eliminate this injustice and unsustainable thing.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 18 november 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs by astrid lulling on the proposal for a council directive on the general conditions for excise duty (com (2008) 0078 - c6-0099/2008 - 2008/0051 (cns)) (a6-0417/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur mrs lulling and the econ committee for the report and the speedy treatment of this proposal, which provides the legal basis for the computerisation of excise procedures as of april 2010. member states as well as the commission have invested a lot in the excise movement control system (emcs). it replaces the current paper-based movement monitoring system with a new computerised one. the greater use of trans-european networks for communication between traders and excise authorities, and between excise authorities themselves, will reduce the time needed for the discharge of tax liability for excise movements. this will provide excise authorities with an essential tool to effectively address fraud and hence protect legitimate trade. at the same time, it will improve the services to taxpayers who will benefit from improved legal certainty and real-time information exchanges with their tax authorities. apart from these new provisions, the proposed directive will entirely recast and update the old horizontal excise directive of 1992. it will simplify and modernise the excise procedures, with the aim of reducing excise obligations for traders, in particular for traders carrying out cross-border business, without compromising excise controls. clearly, as the commission had proposed a new and up-to-date legal framework for excise, some of the more political issues included in this legislation had to be re-discussed. this concerns the issues of land-based tax-free shops, the position of transit airports and the maintaining of guide levels to distinguish commercial excise movements from movements of excise goods for personal use. many amendments proposed by parliament already conform to the text of the general orientation agreed in the ecofin meeting of 4 november 2008, or go in the same direction. they are also acceptable to the commission. i am therefore confident that the proposal can be adopted soon and that the timely application of the emcs is ensured.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to draw attention to three points in this debate on behalf of the uen group. first, tax reforms at eu level should help to increase the production and distribution of goods and services, mainly by reducing red tape, but also by making it easier for national administrations to apply risk-based control procedures. second, the solutions proposed by the directive meet those requirements. they simplify administrative procedures and the electronic system for the exchange of information will be a tool for the tax authorities of the member states to enable better, more targeted controls. thirdly, the rapporteur's proposals to extend the regulation to excise goods sold by mail order and to apply reduced guarantees to operators who meet the conditions of good practice and regularly use the guarantee scheme in the suspension of excise duty should be supported.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is often seen as a citizen's assessment of the way the fund works. in recent years, we have seen an increasing number of natural disasters, and they have been increasing in frequency. we hear from time to time about floods, droughts, fires and storms in various member states. those aren't the only problems. it is necessary to enable assistance to be provided in the event of chemical pollution, explosions, industrial fires or nuclear power plant accidents. we must also be prepared to face new challenges such as countering terrorist attacks and combating their consequences. we must not forget the emergencies that affect the health of our citizens or the diseases of animals. in the case of such risks, the cost of medicines, appropriate vaccines and equipment is a major obstacle to emergency response. the fund should be flexible, responsive and integrated. at the same time, the way in which aid is applied for should be as simple as possible.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner hübner is in a very difficult situation today. he's supposed to be in charge of the council, and there's no council representatives. during the danish presidency in 2002, when there was a flash flood, it was possible to mobilise and prepare the necessary documents in a matter of weeks. today, four presidencies should be blamed for this sluggishness on the reform of the solidarity fund. he's needed. this aid should not only be a sign of our solidarity, but it should be quick and effective with a minimum of red tape. i think there are two things that are worth mentioning here. the first is how this solidarity fund should be directed, in what situations, and the second is how other funds, including those from other funds, such as the cohesion fund, should be used for far-reaching disaster prevention activities. it's kind of a separate issue. i would like to ask the commissioner a question. the creation of a so-called 'instrument for rapid response and preparedness for major disasters' with a budget of around eur 200 million was considered at one time. i don't know what's going on with this project, which is also related to the issue at hand.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: one of the eu's goals is an ambitious climate action plan for 2020, the so-called 3 x 20. the implementation of the new ccs technology will be facilitated by the introduction of auctioning in emissions trading and ccs technology after 2015. however, the emission limits of 500 g co2/kwh imposed after that year are technically unattainable, even for modern coal-fired power plants. this would be a kind of moratorium on the construction of coal-fired power plants, which would threaten energy security. the ccs technology could also be used in industries where large streams of co2 are a waste product, e.g. in the smelting of pig iron. the member states most dependent on coal should therefore start setting up demonstration plants now to gain experience. this requires immediate financial support, as any post-2013 measures on emissions trading will be too late. for example, 2-3 such installations incorporating different ccs technologies should already be established in poland. these are modern coal or lignite-fired power stations and various ways of storing co2 in porous geological spaces or underground reservoirs.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. two brothers received a bag of candy from their parents. "let's divide it equally", says the older brother, and the younger says, "i'd rather have it equal". this anecdote recalls the relationship between the old and new member states in agricultural matters. old countries get more, and new countries get a few times less. we understand the transition, but why should it be the same after 2013? why should the new countries continue to get two, three times less than the old countries? and we hear that it's fair, because there are historical precedents. and we don't want fair, we want equal. the inequalities had some justification in the system of subsidies to production - farmers who produced more were preferred. but today, with the shift to area-based subsidies, there is no justification for such discrimination. this has to end after 2013 and there can be no division between old and new members. we new ones want to be old too! (laughter) (applause)
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. financial discrimination against family farms and discrimination against new member states are two fundamental mechanisms of the common agricultural policy which weaken the whole union and are contrary to its main objectives. the proposed amendments do not remove those mechanisms. can european agriculture be reformed fairly by bypassing 95% of farms? these 95% are family farms with an area of less than 50 hectares. however, they only receive the residues from the eu farm subsidy pool. the richest 1%, who receive over 9 billion euros, which is more than 90% of all farms. this policy is striking at family farms, which are the strength of european agriculture. the agricultural policy currently in force and proposed will result in further rural depopulation, environmental degradation and loss of food security in regions, countries and the union as a whole.
mr. chairman, please! one of the most important tasks that the common agricultural policy has been and is still facing is to ensure that the individual countries of the european union are self-sufficient in agriculture. looking at the final conclusions of the review, i see that the proposed changes concern most of the mechanisms for improving the production situation in individual markets. that's good. but i am concerned that there is no agreement on a general change in the approach to leveling subsidies in all the countries of the union to the same level, which would allow for healthy competition within the community and outside. in fact, this review confirmed the fact that the protectionism of national agriculture in the european union continues to be maintained by the countries of the so-called old union in relation to the newly admitted countries. the fact that i am the next speaker to draw attention to this shows the seriousness of the problem and the commission's continued ignorance of it. it is very important that parliament also noted how unfair the original allocation of milk quotas was. it's good that we're trying to sort this out, shyly, but still.
mr. chairman, please! polish farmers and farmers from central and eastern europe were treated as members of the second category when they joined the european union, this applies, among others, to subsidies and milk quotas. there is now a growing tendency to maintain this discrimination and unequal treatment beyond 2013. please note that a large proportion of farms in the eastern part of the union are family farms. the decisions taken in brussels and strasbourg will hit those families hard. these are the farmers who voted to join the union with the promise of equal treatment from 2013. are we going to tell them today that they've been cheated? i would like to ask my colleagues to ensure that the common agricultural policy is not just a common name. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agricultural sector is not left behind. today in brussels, polish farmers from the solidarity trade union are protesting. they want to draw the attention of the eu authorities to the plight of milk and cereal producers. i support them and i think the protests in brussels are the best proof that things are not going well in agriculture. the unequal treatment of the old and new member states must finally come to an end.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. special thanks go to the rapporteur, mr luis manuel capoulas santos, for the enormous work he has done in recent months and for his great capacity for compromise. the common agricultural policy must retain its community character by ensuring a level playing field in an enlarged european union. the necessary condition for this is, among other things, to seek to harmonise the rates of payment throughout the european union. i believe that it will happen in 2013 and no one will have any ideas to postpone it for the next few years. in the short time available, i shall confine myself to one item. the new member states will increasingly be subject to environmental protection, food safety and animal welfare requirements. compliance with these requirements entails a huge financial burden in a short time, which in these countries means a significant reduction in the profitability of agricultural production. therefore, the timing of the full implementation of these rules must be postponed until the period of full equalization of payments and subsidies.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission has presented the ceilings for the financial resources of the common agricultural policy in each member state for 2013 and beyond. if you convert these amounts per hectare of agricultural land, you can see a huge variation in the support per hectare between the different countries: in belgium it is about 490 euros, in denmark 390, in germany 340, in france 260, but in the new member states it is already much less: 210 in the czech republic, 200 in slovakia and in poland only 190. in a situation where production costs in the old and new member states are very quickly equalised and the european commission proposes to separate financial support from production, maintaining such differentiation is not only without any substantive justification but also discriminates against farmers in the new member states. if the commission and the council do not change their position on this matter, we will have two common agricultural policies in perpetuity: a richer one, for the old member states, and a poorer one, for the new member states.
good report. what's missing, what to change? the review of the common agricultural policy has not sufficiently taken account of the new situation created in the world and in europe by the food crisis. too much has happened to not take it into account in a meaningful way. many of the issues in the european commission's proposals fall short of the expectations of the new member states, who are demanding a fairer system of direct payments. i am convinced that this leveling of payments between member states is inevitable. commissioner, the cabinet meeting will be accompanied by a demonstration of eight thousand tobacco growers. i hope their demands are met. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. we need to adopt a way of approaching this situation. the milk market is volatile and therefore needs to be monitored. secondly, we should leave the instruments of market intervention, such as storage (...) (the president withdrew the member's vote)
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to address a few points by telegraph, thanking you very much for your attention and for the questions you have put to us. first, the modulation that mr goepel mentioned, as mr baco, mr sanzarello and mrs lulling have just mentioned. the question of the rate of modulation will, i can guarantee you, be a key element of any compromise. i have noted that parliament wants an intermediate solution to be found. i would add that too much gradual modulation could undoubtedly cause difficulties for several member states, but we must be well aware that the very principle of gradual modulation responds to a social demand and is highly publicized. we will therefore have to find a compromise with mariann fischer boel, and i think that the position proposed by your rapporteur will shed light on this compromise. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you proposed 100%, that is to say no national co-financing. it's very ambitious, but i think it's the right direction. and then there's the question of new challenges. i understand the position of the committee on agriculture, which de facto considers the support for the dairy sector to be one of the new challenges financed by modulation. i think that's one of the ways we're going to work with mariann fischer boel. another very difficult issue, ladies and gentlemen, the central one, is the one mentioned by mr capoulas santos, who wanted a cautious and moderate approach. this is also the sentiment of mr goepel or of véronique mathieu, of mr le foll, just now, i quote a few of you but many of you will be able to mention this issue, the milk quotas. there are two problems to be solved: the problem of increasing quotas and the rate of increase, and then the problem of accompanying measures. on the question of increasing quotas, i have noted that the debates in parliament have shown very contrasting positions. in fact, this is also the case in the council of ministers. the solution you advocate - 1% per year between 2009 and 2010 - and then deciding on the basis of a report on the continuation of the increase, is a prudent approach, as your rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, has wished. the question of medium-term visibility for agricultural enterprises, as well as for enterprises in general, is also raised. this is a case for a planned trajectory from now to 2015, and ultimately my feeling is that the commission's proposal is close to the balance. we will work on this, particularly on accompanying measures, since everyone agrees to support the fragile regions. the solution advocated by the mobilisation of article 68, the implementation of more structural measures, would, i believe, provide a useful toolbox to support this sector. the mechanisms of the financial instruments to be put in place, i think, must be discussed in order to find a solution acceptable to all. i've heard of the idea of the dairy fund. a word, mr president, on the instruments for regulating markets. i have noted the calls for maintaining effective market regulation and enforcement tools. i think, as you do, that in this new global context, which many of us have mentioned, for agriculture, for food, that this productive sector, this real economy which affects the food of people, needs instruments for intervention in the event of serious imbalances in the markets, and from this point of view, intervention is an important point in the negotiations. many member states, like many members of parliament, want the commission's initial proposals to be reviewed and discussed. we shall also be looking for a compromise that will allow us to maintain a genuine and effective safety net. one last word on article 68. there has been a lot of debate in your parliament and in the council, and a strong demand for flexibility in the use of this article, which is of great interest, while preserving the common character. this would perhaps, and certainly from my point of view, make it possible, by making it easier to use the article, to support productions such as those in the sheep sector which have been mentioned and which need it. we are working with the commissioner on this too, and we will also look for ways of improving the financing conditions. i am thinking in particular of the calls for more justice and fairness made by many representatives of the new member states. i have listened with great attention and interest to all the many and precise speeches that have been made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the task we are going to be working on with mariann fischer boel and her entire team, whom i thank for the spirit we have built up amongst ourselves over the past months. i would perhaps like to say a final word in response to a comment made earlier by mrs aubert, who referred to the context of food insecurity. the presidency is well aware that we cannot talk about the common agricultural policy as if we were in a fortress, withdrawing into ourselves as europeans. it was in this spirit that we held a conference in the european parliament itself on 3 july with the director-general of the wto, the director-general of the world bank, the director-general of the fao, many members of parliament and commissioner louis michel on the question: 'who will feed the world?' and in the same spirit, we will be organising a working meeting on 28 november, again with louis michel, on the link between agriculture and development. so i am personally, like the presidency, very keen to see that we speak well of agriculture in order to preserve the agricultural and territorial food model which is that of the european union and which has accompanied the common agricultural policy for 50 years, but with an open and supportive view of what is happening in the other regions of the world.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have been listening carefully and i think that the record on ‘catch-the-eye’ shows clearly that there is huge interest in this parliament in the agricultural sector and the consequences of the decisions that will be taken. i should like to pick up a few of the issues that have been mentioned. firstly, i would like to stress that i think you have either misunderstood or missed something when you tried to convince me that modulation means taking the money away from the farmers, which is definitely not the case. we need modulation because we have new challenges and we need to bolster farmers’ possibilities to make investments in order to meet these new challenges. so i think, on the contrary, you can say in modulation we actually increase the funding available for the agricultural sector because there is cofinancing. that is what it is all about. if you continue to say that we are taking money from the farmers, then there is a certain misunderstanding among those of you who have chosen this argument. milk seems today to have been the big issue. neil parish said in his first speech that you have 27 member states – 27 customers – in your committee, but, having listened to the discussion today, i would have thought that you had many more, because listening here you can pick and choose any thing from a 0% increase to a 10% increase. the presidency and the commission are obliged to try to find the right balance. to those who talk about a milk fund: it is strange because i still recall the 2003 negotiations where we compensated the milk producers all over europe. let me take germany as an example: german dairy farmers were compensated by eur 1 billion every year – money transferred from their milk payment into their single payment scheme. but at that stage i did not hear anyone talking about a milk fund, and that is the reason why, because we know that the dairy sector is facing difficulties, we have now added to the new challenges a milk line. i am sure that we will be able to design a very nice package for the milk producers in those areas that are facing difficulties. i must say that i am surprised that there is so much resistance to increasing the milk quota, knowing that last year we collected eur 338 million in superlevy from european milk producers. to me this is definitely not the way i want to go forward. i want to give farmers the possibility to respond to the markets. increasing quotas does not mean an obligation to produce: it is only a possibility for those who are strong on the internal or the external markets. it has to be kept in mind that some of the competitive ones are paying eur 338 million every year to stay in business. concerning redistribution, it is obvious that there was broad agreement that this health check was not going to be a new reform and that we were therefore building on the 2003 reform. i think both the presidency and the commission can admit that there is strong pressure from the new member states to get a more equal payment, and i know that this will be a discussion that will be strongly defended in the 2013 reform. we might find some solutions even now for the new member states in the compromise, and i hope you will be surprised in a positive way. finally, could i just say, on the issue of tobacco that was raised, that i was impressed by mr gklavakis, who is always trying to convince us that tobacco is important, and we believe that is so in his own region. but tobacco is not in the health check. the tobacco reform was made in 2004 and was supported by all countries, including tobacco-producing member states. as i have said many times, i am certainly not going to reopen the tobacco reform. but i will be open to help all those member states, all those regions, that face problems, because there are many possibilities available in the rural development policy. i am sure we can create solutions that will soften the consequences of the decisions already taken for the tobacco producers. i have to keep my remarks short, but my conclusion on the discussion today will be clearly that we need today, more than ever before, a common agricultural policy. i agree with ms mcguinness that a situation where renationalisation would be the only answer would definitely jeopardise the european agricultural sector. let us keep our common agricultural policy with the flexibility that we have included in our different choices within the rural development policy. but we do need a common european agricultural policy. that would be my conclusion from the discussions today. i want to thank all of you for this dedicated approach.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 19 november 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on paper. as expected, the so-called health check provides an opportunity for deeper intervention in the principles of the common agricultural policy than in other eu policies and budgets. agriculture which once accounted for the majority of budget expenditure and will now account for one third of the budget by the end of 2013 has been strongly criticised. the main argument is the disproportion between the weight of agriculture in the economy and employment and its share in the union budget. it's all a misunderstanding. the cap as a whole is community in character and its share of the union's, national and common public expenditure does not exceed 0,3% of gdp. in addition, international realities have changed and the scourge of hunger in the third world is leading to a rethinking of the rules on agricultural aid in europe. the european parliament has discussed the problem in depth, as reflected in the numerous amendments. from the point of view of a country with a relatively high share of employment in agriculture, such as poland, it is appropriate to increase milk quotas and national support for the sectors in the most difficult situation. when considering the issue of so-called modulation which has proved to be the most controversial it is worth remembering that the new member states will not reach 100% of direct payments until 2013 and modulation can be seen as a harbinger of the re-nationalisation of agricultural policy, which would be unfavourable.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr niels buska on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulations (ec) no 1290/2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy and (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation) with a view to establishing a school fruit scheme (com (2008) 0442 - c6-0315/2008 - 2008/0146 (cod)) (a6-0391/2008).
mr. chairman, please! providing fruit for children and schoolchildren is certainly a good idea, because it has not only an economic dimension but a very broad social one. it promotes healthy eating habits and thus improves the health of the population. the amount of eur 90 million is clearly too low to ensure the proper functioning of the programme. the activities of national authorities, founding bodies and a broad social movement are therefore desirable. i hope that the fruit in schools programme will find widespread support and that the work of mr. buzka and many others will not be in vain.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 18 november 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. – i am happy to support the scheme to provide school children with fruit in order to encourage healthier eating habits in the young. hopefully, this project will go some way towards modifying the eating patterns of the youngest members of european society. long-term studies have shown that eating habits acquired in childhood serve as a model for life. they have the potential not only to influence this generation of children, but also their children. more interestingly it has been reported that children’s food preferences have an impact on the eating habits of their parents. let us hope that this worthwhile scheme goes some of the way towards making us all healthier and fitter.
on paper. i'm glad we're creating a community fruit program in schools. the positive effects of the implementation of this programme can be seen at various levels social, economic and financial. as a member of the parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, i see the obvious positive effects of the programme on european agriculture and the judiciary in the form of increased demand for fruit and the maintenance of high production in europe. i'm also a father, and as a father, i also see the positive effects, which are hard to quantify, of the health of the younger generation. increasing the amount of fruit and vegetables in the diet of school-age children is of tremendous importance, for it is then that their eating habits are formed. the consumption of fruit and vegetables in poland is about 250 g per capita per day. this is among the lowest in the community less fruit and vegetables are consumed only in the czech republic, latvia and slovakia. the community average is 380 g, while the who/fao recommended minimum daily intake of fruit and vegetables is 400 g. in countries like poland, we will need a bigger campaign to promote this programme. i hope that the school fruit scheme will soon be effectively implemented in all educational establishments throughout the european union and will remain a permanent part of it.
mr. chairman, please! the school fruit scheme and the school milk scheme, as well as the food distribution scheme for the most deprived people in the union, are excellent eu initiatives that are badly needed and should be strongly supported. providing free fruit and vegetables to pupils will not only improve their health and change their eating habits, but will also have a positive social impact. i welcome a number of the proposals put forward by the european commission and they should not be controversial. i hope that the commissioner, and especially our eu27 agriculture ministers, will be a little more generous. it's our children's health we're talking about, and we can't afford to skimp on it.
mr. chairman, please! the images that are common on the streets of american cities are teenage girls weighing over 300 pounds. i wouldn't want us to make that mistake again. implementing healthy eating patterns and eating more healthy foods that are not harmful to children and young people is an investment in the health of future generations. it also saves money on the cost of treating diabetes, cardiovascular disease, bone disease. so a program that's too frugal is actually a program that's not as efficient and healthy and economical. that's why i voted for amendment 7, which would increase the minimum amount of student fruit allowance by four times, guaranteeing that students get one serving of fruit or vegetables at least four days a week, not just once a week. i'm glad the committee made that amendment. the introduction of the programme should not be dependent on the consent of the parents to the funding. children of poor parents in particular should have the chance to receive free fruit at school, so the amount for the programme should be increased.
looking back on the ten years of the emu, we must ask ourselves whether the euro symbol is really associated with prosperity and stability. there is no doubt that there is only one answer to that question. taking into account some of the negative aspects of the adoption of the single currency, such as the price increases in the initial phase, it should be stressed that the euro has become one of the leading currencies in the world. economic and monetary union has contributed to increased economic stability in the member states, but it has also had a positive impact on international trade, to the union's benefit. the euro has been particularly positive in recent times, as the global financial crisis has made us aware of the benefits of a stable exchange rate.
in writing. − in recent years, many new financial products have appeared on the market. the increasing complexity of these products leaves consumers increasingly vulnerable and often unable to assess without the help of experts which financing offer is best suited to their needs. and that's the reason why so many bad decisions are made, especially by the poor. in poland, there are many cases of fraud or simply consumers making bad financial decisions without being aware of the consequences. financial education is essential in today's environment and is the best way to protect consumers from making bad financial decisions.
in writing. − in the face of the financial crisis, this report takes on new significance. the crisis in the mortgage market has shown us the dangers that can result from inadequate information to borrowers. it also highlighted the lack of understanding by consumers themselves of financial and economic information, the impact that changes in macroeconomic indicators may have on their loan repayments and, therefore, their lack of awareness of the risks of insolvency and over-indebtedness. the report highlights the need to educate and raise consumer awareness so that they are able to assess the financial products offered to them on the basis of their own knowledge. that is why i support the initiative to create financial education programmes, especially those that are designed with the potential audience in mind, which take into account factors such as: age, income level, education, sector of employment or interests. financial education programmes should also be based on practical and real situations that occur in our daily lives. i hope this report will help financial institutions and consumers themselves to understand the need for financial education. i believe it can be beneficial for both parties. insolvency and over-indebtedness of consumers also cause problems for the financial institutions that have granted the loans, and which customers have problems paying back.
in writing. − the internal market is not only for the benefit of operators, who, by removing successive barriers, have almost the entire european market within reach. the internal market was also created with consumers in mind so that they could benefit from the same standards in all member states. the consumer scoreboard is a tool to monitor, analyse and identify internal market problems from the consumer's point of view. it uses indicators such as price levels, complaints, satisfaction levels, changes in suppliers. and although some of the results presented in the table are questionable such as prices which are easy to communicate and compare, the final price is affected by many variables which are not always reflected in the table but these indicators are undoubtedly a very useful and adequate way of assessing the situation of consumers in the internal market. i just want to point out that this is the first edition of the consumer scoreboard. we can therefore look forward to another edition that will take account of our doubts. it is important that the sign is written in a language that is easily understood and read by a wide range of people. there is no doubt that its results are an interesting source of information on the situation of consumers in the internal market.
in writing. - i'm very pleased to welcome you to today's fruit in school program. in my opinion on health issues related to nutrition, overweight and obesity adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i have already pointed out that special attention should be paid to the phenomenon of obesity among children and adolescents. obesity is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension, and some cancers. the school fruit programme aims to promote positive fruit and vegetable eating habits and to educate children in schools about healthy eating. dietary habits are formed in childhood, and it has been shown that those who learned to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables as children will do the same in adulthood. the distribution of fruit to schoolchildren will certainly contribute to an increase in fruit and vegetable consumption among the youngest, so that the impact of the 'fruit in school' programme on preventing the wave of obesity among children and young people in europe will probably be significant. and the impact will be even greater if the fruit consumption at school is not just symbolic. i therefore welcome the proposal voted for to increase substantially (up to four times) the budget allocated to the programme's objectives.
in writing. - the 'fruit in school' programme is not only a symbol of what the union is giving to children, but also a way of promoting healthy eating. i think we should be extending it to high school students. i would like to emphasize that this is a way of helping poor families who are often unable to provide fruit for their children. of course, this is also an additional opportunity to use the labour of farmers and gardeners. fruits and vegetables, and in my country especially apples, are fairly easy to distribute. but we must make sure that they are of good quality, clean, and fresh. and we also need to prepare our schools to do that. it will therefore be realistic to introduce this programme only from the beginning of the 2009/2010 school year. as for the costs, they are not astronomical - the commission's project is to reach eur 90 million, perhaps higher. true, but on the other hand, we should be aware of the high cost of treating diseases associated with being overweight or obese. but let this program not be a one-time event, a showcase. let us involve the national, regional and local authorities responsible for education in these activities. let us also be judiciously flexible in the details of our choice of fruits and vegetables, remembering that this is in the best interests of our children's health.
in writing. the report entitled '10 years of economic and monetary union - successes and challenges' is one of the most important reports of this plenary session. in the face of financial problems, it provides a new framework for economic discussion. the report is a thorough analysis, which shows the positive and negative aspects of the functioning of the economic and monetary union. the report makes interesting conclusions about the single currency, the euro. there is no doubt that the introduction of the euro is a major financial success for the union. admittedly, it has faced market turbulence. however, the single currency does not affect all regions to the same extent. we are seeing a growing disparity in the pace of development across the european union. in the current financial crisis, economic policy coordination is a necessity. the principles of the stability and growth pact should also be respected. the european central bank's independence is a very important issue to be supported. its competence should be limited to monetary matters, i.e. the maintenance of price stability, and its exclusive competence to set interest rates. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i supported mr ehller's report for two reasons. with no resources of its own, the eu is becoming one of the world's largest energy importers, increasingly dependent on external suppliers of oil and gas. the greatest geopolitical risks are associated with these sectors. coal resources will be available longer than oil or natural gas resources and could be strategic for us if the energy supply is threatened for political reasons. moreover, the processing of energy from fossil fuels such as coal can be profitable despite strict environmental standards, which is a good prospect for european and polish mines. the deployment of clean coal technologies will contribute to significant infrastructure and economic development in poland.
madam president, please! the financial and economic crisis will affect europe together, so we must share responsibility and make decisions together. since the crisis, and the response to it, and the mitigation of its effects, will be the responsibility of all the member states of the union, all the member states should also decide together what to do together. the situation in which, as it is today, especially in the face of the crisis, the union is divided into europe a, the euro area countries, where only the united kingdom is invited, and europe b, which is made up of the new member states and sweden and denmark, is a division of the union. it is contrary to one of the fundamental principles on which the european communities have been based up to now - the principle of solidarity. this is not the way, mr president barroso. the commission's action programme, presented 13 days ago, is a confusion of fundamental issues with less important issues and with issues which were once important but which have become less important in the face of the economic crisis. today, economic growth and the fight against unemployment, which is becoming a greater threat to us, are a hundred times more important than the issues of climate change. i am glad that the european commission has made the further enlargement of the european union a priority, and this is of course the case for the balkans. it is really about ensuring stability in this inflamed region of europe, because stability in the balkans means less spending in the future by european taxpayers, the citizens of our member states.
madam president! the informal meeting of the european council and the g20 summit in washington sought to respond to the most important challenge of the day, the financial crisis, which is 'undoubtedly' a failure of neoliberal economic theories. the declarations made after these meetings are like the construction of floodwalls just after a devastating flood, and i am sorry to hear that - as president barroso said - it is only the crisis that has led to a change of mind. the questions that have been left unanswered are: how to stop the recession, create new jobs and, finally, how to combat climate change without incurring unnecessary economic costs? european socialists have long called for financial market reforms and coordinated action by eu governments. i think we can't just focus on the financial markets, where financial institutions and greedy managers have led to the current situation. we must protect citizens from rising food, energy and rent prices in order to maintain their real incomes and thus protect purchasing power - consumer demand, which, alongside investment and exports, is a key factor in economic growth in the european union. we must also protect the profitability of small and medium-sized enterprises. if the climate and energy package is maintained in its present form, and in particular in terms of the emissions trading system and the requirements that will be imposed on power stations or the so-called heavy industry, i want to warn you today that in poland and in other new member states it will entail large financial costs, but above all it will cause a huge increase in energy prices. fighting climate change is a good cause, but it cannot be done with instruments that will bring us very quickly to the next crisis, and today we have not yet overcome the current one.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, thank you for all these interesting interventions. maybe this is another mission impossible to try to collect and respond in a satisfactory way to all members’ different views on the legislative and work programme. they range from gmos, as we heard, through fish to the wto and the whole financial crisis. so i might not have the time or the possibility to respond in a fully satisfactory way to all your detailed questions. i would first of all say that there has been nothing like ‘business as usual’ since we entered this crisis. by my side you see my colleague responsible also for much of the response, as well as mr mccreevy behind us here, and they will know better than anyone else that we have had to work on this from the very first moment. i would also say the commission has responded to the financial crisis with unusual speed. i remember that in the past we congratulated ourselves on responding within three months to one of the oil spills that we had and we thought that that was a kind of record, but this time we actually managed in 24 hours to get proposals on the table and to adopt important proposals. so i think that there has been nothing like business as usual and we will not see anything like business as usual from now on. we have to continue to respond to a recession that we have already seen the beginning of. so that is absolutely clear. i also think that all your interventions have illustrated the need to get the balance right. to get the balance right in terms of environmental concerns as well as the social issues – all of these have to be covered. but why do you believe that what you find in the strategic initiatives like the report on the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and proposals beyond 2010, a european framework for recovery, financial markets for the future package supervision, will not contain the social issues and cover the whole sustainability criteria? of course it has to reflect that balance, and that is what we will work on, as well, in completing it with the very detailed proposals that will have to come on-stream from now on. so that balance, and also getting the balance right between regulation and letting the market work, is crucial to us and something that we are fully aware of. i think that this also will affect our credibility because it is only when we also fill out these strategic initiatives, the things we have listed as strategic and priority initiatives, with the very concrete follow-up and implementing measures that we gain credibility and that we can also continue to play a leading role within the g20 or in the imf context or affecting the rest of the world on energy and climate as well; we will get this credibility from delivering what we have promised in this work programme. we have appreciated very much the dialogue that we have had for a long time now with the different committees in parliament and the kind of overall political debate that we have engaged in and i want to thank you very much for that. i think that helps us to deliver. it helps us to also bring the right details to the lists of proposals. but, as you know and as is clear also from our work programme, this is a very peculiar time because it is a kind of transition, with a new parliament, a new commission; and, with the elections to parliament coming up next spring, you have also asked us not to go on delivering when you can no longer receive it and do something meaningful with it. i must just mention one more thing, and that is smes, because several of you have mentioned the small and medium-sized enterprises. of course they will be absolutely key to any success in dealing with the financial crisis, so we will deliver, we have already produced a sme business act and of course there is a follow-up, an implementation of the business act. the same is also true for the social package that we presented. now it is a matter of the implementing measures. so if you do not find every proposal in every area in this particular proposal, that does not mean that we have stopped working on it or that we will not come back with detailed proposals, but the balance is absolutely crucial. and when we speak with one voice, it helps if we have one message as well or a coordinated message in everything we do and i think that will remain crucial for all of us. let me finally say that in this legislative and work programme you will see that we have for the first time identified communication priorities and since this is my portfolio i want to underline this and remind you all that we proposed four items to become joint communication priorities for next year: the ep elections of course, energy and climate change, the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall and growth, jobs and solidarity, meaning that the package also covers fighting the financial crisis. we are already working together to prepare work on these priorities and i can assure you that we will contribute to the work that parliament is doing in preparing for the elections; tomorrow i will talk to your bureau’s working group on communication to see how we can help and support and back parliament’s work plans for communicating the ep elections. so that will be very important work for us. if we want to keep credibility and legitimacy, we have to mobilise voters to make sure that they cast their vote in june next year. with a combination of good policies and good communication i think we can actually face the difficult year ahead with at least a little confidence, and if we work together, the confidence will be even greater.
in writing. the latest summit in washington is essentially the beginning of a process in which the heads of state must engage to minimise the impact of the global financial crisis. in an era of globalisation, where national economies are closely interlinked, international cooperation to contain the crisis should be a priority. i am not just talking about a common eu position on many issues, but about taking concrete actions and real interventions together to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis. experts say that the polish economy is one of the few able to cope with a possible economic collapse, although no one can predict the scale of the crisis globally. we must now be ready to take appropriate counter-crisis measures, where national governments have a key role to play. they should, if necessary, provide capital support to financial institutions that are in danger of going bankrupt. so i want to emphasize again how important a role the state has to play in preventing a global crisis by intervening in the local financial market.
on paper. the financial crisis is global. i think it's a crisis of the economic system, and finance, which is the backbone of the economy, is experiencing a real typhoon. you could say that rene thomas's catastrophe theory is working. but there are moral issues to be considered. this is something that many economists have pointed out. to quote gotti tedeschi: "is it logical and ethical to create the illusion of development based solely on the growth of individual consumption, is it logical and ethical to absorb the growth of social costs (pensions and health care) through the growth of consumption, thus causing an increase in taxes, is it logical and ethical to transform the society of smokers into a society of indebted consumers, is it logical and ethical to force a globalized person to look for work away from home?" the cost of this ethical deficit will be great, for we are paying for the greed and risk taking of other people's money by irresponsible people who have created tax havens for themselves. the taxpayer - not just the european and american taxpayers - is paying for this greed and dishonesty. we are poorer. the role of banks is diminishing in an economy that produces less and needs fewer workers. it's a domino effect. the market today requires certainty and respect for the rules. we must take action to protect the poorest of the poor and to prevent them from buying our wealth. but the rescue therapy will take at least a few years.
madam president, mr. secretary, i was expelled from cuba in may of 2005. when i arrived at the airport, i was expelled as a member of the european parliament. i recently applied for a visa to make sure i crossed the border; i was denied. can i count on you, the presidency, to allow a member of the european parliament to visit cuba freely?
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has for many years been sounding the alarm about the problem of unnecessary and disproportionately high administrative costs imposed on european businesses. these costs not only make it difficult to do business, but also hinder the ability to meet the challenges of today's highly competitive global economy. it is therefore gratifying that the commission has finally addressed this issue by proposing, by means of an accelerated procedure, amendments to the 1st and 11th company law directives which will improve the conditions for european companies to operate more quickly. in the case of directive 1, the commission's proposal to eliminate in national law any additional disclosure requirements which lead to an increase in the costs of undertakings seems to be most justified. the proposed electronic platform containing full company information will be a cost-effective and easily accessible solution, as will a single fee to cover any administrative or disclosure costs. at the same time, as regards the 11th company law directive, the proposal concerns the requirements relating to the translation and authentication of documents which are filed with the register of a branch of a company incorporated in another member state. the mutual recognition of translations proposed by the commission as part of the reduction of administrative burdens will undoubtedly reduce the costs for businesses while ensuring their reliability. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kauppi, on her excellent report.
member of the commission. - mr president, mrs berès, ladies and gentlemen, when the founding fathers of the european union drew up the treaty of rome, they already envisaged, in one of its articles, a mechanism to help member states whose balance of payments was seriously threatened. that provision, that article of the treaty of rome, has gone through the successive reforms of the treaties and is now in the present treaty, in article 119, which has been the legal basis used by the commission, after many years of being rendered useless or not being used, to rely on it to come to the aid of a state which needed help, which needed urgent help, as was the case with hungary. the article in the treaty is developed in a regulation of 2002, which is the regulation we used for hungary and which is the regulation we are now also proposing to reform, as regards the ceiling on the amounts that can be made available, in order to help states in difficulty of this kind. yesterday we were discussing in this house the ten years of economic and monetary union. this afternoon we discussed the economic situation. we have discussed the difficulties of the situation here yesterday and today, and unfortunately there are some member states of the european union which are not in the euro area and whose macroeconomic and financial imbalances place them in a particularly vulnerable position to market pressure. in the case of hungary, the hungarian authorities, in view of these difficulties, at a certain point turned to the international monetary fund and immediately after having established contact with the international monetary fund they contacted the european commission. the procedure, and i said so to the hungarian authorities, is not appropriate for a member state. the logical thing is to go first to the european authorities and then, if necessary - and in the case of hungary, it certainly was - to go together to the international monetary fund. i should like to tell the honourable members that the international monetary fund and its managing director, mr strauss-kahn, have expressed an absolutely open position to this cooperation of the fund with the european commission, with the european authorities and with the member states of the european union, the members of the euro area, who need to have recourse to the facilities provided for in the fund as well. we have acted in cooperation with hungary. although the start of the procedure was not the right one, in the end the result was the right one, we have acted in cooperation: the european union is providing hungary with 6.5 billion euros in a global aid package of 20 billion and the same way, but in this case with the right procedure, to first contact the european authorities to go together to establish contacts with the international monetary fund, is being used at the moment in the case of another country. unfortunately, the situation is so difficult that we cannot believe that this will be the last case, or that we should be prepared in case there are other cases, other member states that need this kind of aid. and that is why, while we are submitting to the council the proposal to withdraw in support of hungary, using article 119 of the treaty and the 2002 regulation, we are also submitting a proposal to increase the ceiling of the facility established by the 2002 regulation to eur 25 billion. i hope we will not have to use these resources, but we must not rule out the possibility of using them. if we are to use them, we must show the solidarity that the founding fathers established in the treaty of rome in 1957 and we must also take account of the possibility of extending the ceiling of 25 billion if necessary. i therefore ask parliament, when discussing this matter, to show in future, if necessary, the same readiness that i thank parliament for today, to express its opinion in a rapid and flexible manner on aid, on aid which, by its very nature, by its characteristics, must be urgent. there are elements in the resolution that parliament is putting forward, along with the debate on the proposal to increase the ceiling on the balance of payments facility, that i share. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. we must make this defence of the stability of the economies of the member states, of the financial positions of the member states, compatible with the free movement of capital, with the principles on which the internal market is based, but we must be aware that we must react to unnecessary risks, to situations in which certain private interests put at risk the overriding interests of the citizens of the member states, the economic security and the security in general of our states. i take note of the suggestions contained in this draft resolution of parliament; we will examine them in the commission and i will report to the committee on economic and monetary affairs on our considerations and also, as mrs berès says, i will pass it on to mr de larosière so that his group can present its considerations to us within the deadline, which is now march, set for its work.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in speaking on behalf of the uen group on the council regulation establishing a medium-term financial assistance instrument for the member states of the european union, i would like to draw attention to the following points: firstly, the situation on the world financial markets is having an increasingly negative impact on the real economy, resulting in a projected decline in gdp in 2009 in the united states and in many of the most developed countries of the european union. secondly, as these countries are the main outlets for the new eu member states, this threatens their economic growth and will thus have a negative impact on their balance of payments. thirdly, in this context, the raising of the community financial assistance ceiling to eur 25 billion for one non-euro area member state should be strongly supported, as only such a high ceiling guarantees that any community assistance will be effective. fourthly, if a non-euro area member state of the union requires immediate financial support, the council, the european commission and the parliament should act quickly enough so that confidence in the effectiveness of this assistance is not undermined. fifthly, the european commission's swift response to hungary's financial needs, despite the fact that the country first requested assistance from the international monetary fund rather than the european commission, is to be welcomed.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. first, i would like to make a brief reference to two statements made by previous colleagues. first, i want to point out that non-euro countries do not have to maintain a fixed exchange rate against the euro. poland is an example of a country that has a fully liquid exchange rate. and secondly, i want to say that even if a country has a good domestic policy and doesn't make mistakes, it can still be affected by a crisis as a result of the so-called contagion effect. and to a large extent what we're dealing with in hungary, of course, also has its roots in the wrong government policies, but hungary has also been affected by capital flight, which was not exactly due to the situation in hungary, but was caused by the external situation. commissioner, i would like to express my support for the commission's proposal. i think it is a proposal that takes into account the fact that we are all in the single market and that the situation of individual countries is important for other countries. so we should feel a sense of connection and a sense of shared responsibility for our partners. this proposal is also a demonstration of european solidarity, which should be one of the main values underlying our action. the amount of 25 billion euro proposed by the commission seems reasonable, although of course there may be situations where more money is needed and that is why i also support the proposal that the commission should have the right to take decisions on increasing this limit at short notice. i think that the full procedure of parliament's consent or parliamentary consultation is impractical in this respect. it's hard to imagine that we would wait six weeks for parliament to come together to help a country. i therefore support the commission's proposal, which gives the commission the power to raise this limit in a very short time. i would also like to say that i am missing in this proposal any reference to the possible action of the european central bank. he gave loans to the hungarians. it should be a coordinated action and i think some kind of reference should be found. finally, i think that this proposal should not refer to article 100 of the treaty on european union. article 100 relates to entirely different situations and should therefore be treated separately.
the question was addressed to the commission. the commissioner will have the opportunity to answer them. i'd like to welcome minister jouyet. we're all here, so we're going to proceed with the item.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the european union's response to the deteriorating situation in the eastern part of the democratic republic of congo.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. i am a member of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly and at the last session in rwanda, in kigali, i listened to the president of that country, paul kagame, who said that we need to stabilize the situation in central africa. he said he wanted peace there, but i also went to kigali to the holocaust museum, which commemorates the death of one million tutsis who were killed in just three months 100 days. it was 1994. are we now witnessing a repeat of this situation? we can't let that happen. i think it's our duty to do that. i think the european union must do more. i don't know if sending more troops will solve the situation. personally, i doubt that. i think that we should review the sources of finance which, as my colleague has already said, are derived from the exploitation of congolese resources and are not then directed to small traders and anonymous persons, but also enter the european markets. here is the source and the solution to this situation. now, let's move on to the humanitarian situation, which is getting out of hand. this is where we come in, and this is where the european union must do everything it can to protect the 1 600 000 people who need water, food, blankets, tents and care. let's get to the problem.
mr. chairman, please! today's vote brought to an end almost 12 months of work by the european parliament on an opinion on the evaluation of the functioning of the common agricultural policy. it is important that the changes made contribute to the simplification of this policy. but we should preserve its community character and level the playing field. i hope that the union's agriculture ministers will read the opinion and that our proposals will be accepted. i am thinking in particular of the proposals to simplify cross compliance requirements, including the postponement until 2013 of the implementation of the animal welfare requirements in area c in the new member states. unfortunately, many of the solutions have been designed in a way that does not take into account the situation and model of agriculture in the new member states. we are now starting to discuss the future of the cap after 2013 and the review of the financial perspective, so there is still a lot of work to be done.
mr. chairman, please! this is a very important subject. the evaluation of the common agricultural policy shows that it will make sense in the future if it is based on fair principles. the common agricultural policy should ensure, first of all, european food security, self-sufficiency and food production for export, the economic security of farming families, the profitability of agricultural production, the equalization of subsidies for farmers from the new member states with those from the old member states, environmental security, the preservation of biodiversity, the prohibition of the cultivation and breeding of genetically modified organisms throughout the european union, rural development, the upgrading of the poorest regions, the protection of cultural heritage and the preservation of traditional culture, and equal access for rural inhabitants to education, culture and technological achievements. these objectives can only be achieved if we learn from the lessons of the past and take bold action.
in writing. − in today's vote i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council common position on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on community statistics on public health and safety and health at work. i believe that the health strategy should place particular emphasis on prevention and early detection of diseases. it will be effective if we ensure that citizens have adequate health and treatment and reduce disparities in access to health care between the member states of the european union. the creation of a common health strategy will not be possible without the availability of adequate data from the relevant statistical institutes. the adoption of the regulation is therefore a step towards better coordination of community action in the field of health statistics. collecting information on pandemics or infectious diseases will undoubtedly help to increase the effectiveness of the fight against them. it should be noted that at present, statistical information on public health and health and safety at work has been collected only on a voluntary basis. therefore, the regulation aims to formalise the current arrangements and to ensure continuity in the collection of data. the unanimity of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety shows the weight and the correctness of the report adopted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of adopting the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on disclosure and translation requirements, with a view to reducing excessive administrative burdens on certain types of companies. the proposal aims to eliminate in national law any additional disclosure requirements which lead to increased costs for businesses. the information must be entered in the commercial registers of the member states and published in the national official gazette in accordance with the applicable rules. in the present era, where business registers make information available on the internet, publication in the official gazette does not in most cases add value but only exposes companies to high costs. the proposed amendments give member states flexibility to set additional disclosure requirements and guarantee the exemption of companies from additional, often unnecessary, fees.
in writing. − today an important vote was held. it was important for all farmers in the european union. but there are farmers who are not as strong as others because they have not had time to adapt to the agricultural structures of the european union yet. they used all the capacities they had to build up sustainable agricultural enterprises after they got the chance to do so after 1989. these farmers are not the big producers that we know from france and germany; they are still small. but they are extraordinarily important for my country, poland. we need them if we are to have a rural area where people want to live and work in future. and therefore they need our special support. so i voted today to help small producers, i.e. in poland, to show that they can count on our and on my support today and in the future.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the council regulation amending the common agricultural policy. i believe that it does not meet the expectations of many producer groups and does not reduce the gaps and discriminatory divisions between farmers in the so-called old and new countries of the european union. i deeply regret that most members of the european parliament fail to see the problems facing european and polish agriculture, which need to be changed. however, the direction of these changes proposed by the european commission is unacceptable to me.
the rapporteur of the opinion committee. - mr president, commissioner and minister! the directive on the admission of highly qualified third-country workers to the union is a valuable first step towards a common immigration policy for the european union. it is the first major attempt to reduce illegal immigration and promote legal immigration in europe. in preparing the blue card, we were torn between the fear that it would be abused by foreigners and the hope that newcomers to europe would meet the needs of our labour market and contribute to the development of our economy. the blue card is to become europe's calling card, making it an attractive place to work and live for the skilled workers our small and medium-sized enterprises need. it was important to the committee on employment and social affairs, which i represent today, that workers from outside the european union should not be treated worse than our own citizens. equal pay for equal work, family reunification and access to basic social benefits were therefore essential to ensure the rapid and full integration of workers. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and to tell the french presidency that the committee on employment and social affairs has worked quickly to help achieve its objectives before the end of its term.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the data are alarming, as the european union is not a popular destination for highly qualified workers from third countries, unlike countries such as the united states, canada or australia. for example, only 5.5% of highly skilled migrants from the maghreb countries arrive in the union, while the united states or canada receive about 54%. this is due to the wide variation in the reception system of migrants in the union, which makes it much more difficult for them to move from one country to another. only six member states have a special programme for the employment of highly skilled migrants. it is therefore important to introduce a more coherent approach by member states to european migration policy, taking into account integration and political issues. it is necessary to harmonise the rules to control migration flows both to and within europe, precisely to give highly skilled migrants a better chance.
mr. chairman, please! we all remember the so-called labour camps that were discovered in the autumn of 2006 in several member states of the european union. it was here that illegal immigrants and citizens of european union countries worked side by side in terrible conditions. it is this situation that has accelerated our work on the so-called immigration package, part of which we are discussing today. i think we're headed in the right direction. the proposal we are presenting is to civilize working conditions and simplify the rules of employment and residence for legal immigrants. i also wish to express my solidarity with third-country nationals legally resident in the european union. they can't be discriminated against here. i also do not believe that the blue card threatens the economic interests of the citizens of the new member states or competes with them. after all, most european labour markets are already open to us, and all transitional periods, as we know, will be over before the blue card comes into force.
mr. chairman, please! demographic change in the european union and an ageing population are factors that are leading to a demand for highly qualified workers from outside the european union. economic migration is a challenge that the european union must address in an increasingly globalised world. i believe that a comprehensive and coherent approach to european migration policy is essential for member states. the field of engineering and computer technologies is an area requiring special attention in the context of development and employment. community legislation is necessary to curb illegal immigration. i agree with the rapporteur and rapporteur, mr massel, and support the implementation of the european blue card scheme for skilled migrants, which aims to make it easier for professionals from third countries to take up a job.
demographic problems and the ageing of europe's population are not the only reasons why the blue card should be implemented as a union-controlled instrument. the enlargement of the union has seen a huge outflow of specialists from many of the new member states. the outflow of skilled workers is the biggest dilemma facing employers today, leading to a blockage of investment and thus to a limitation of economic development. if our entrepreneurs can't find specialists in the domestic market, they'll lose to the chinese competition. polish employers want a wider opening of the labour market. they are prepared to employ nationals from countries such as ukraine and belarus. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that any facilitation should be consistent across the union. we must remember that some of those who come to us under the blue card will return with their experience in the union. at the same time, we should strengthen the training and continuing training systems for the specialists needed in the labour market in our member states.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to two dangers that arise in the debate and in the proposals for legislation. the first is that the requirements for foreign nationals who take up employment are too high. the requirement that at least two years out of five years of work experience be in managerial positions seems far too high. for a nurse or a computer scientist, this kind of requirement is not necessary to perform useful functions in our enterprises. the second danger is the attempt to establish a uniform minimum wage for those who will work. such regulation would certainly undermine the fundamental principle that should be upheld, namely equal pay for equal work. this may result in someone coming to work in the union being paid more than someone already working here.
mr. chairman, please! i'm very happy to be working with the russians on our space program. however, it should be borne in mind that behind this cooperation there is another partner with whom this cooperation should be developed, namely ukraine. the best soviet rockets were built in ukraine. the potential of this country is enormous. i think we need to see it and use it for our common good. the second point concerns the galileo programme. well, we have to remember that this program can and should be incredibly important to our military operations, to our military missions. but the military use of this system should be so secured that other participants in this program -- and i mean china in particular -- cannot and will not be able to block it.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 1988 the commission had proposed a directive on the minimum level of alcohol permitted for drivers, but in the absence of agreement between the member states and the commission, the commission had to content itself with adopting a recommendation on 17 january 2001 to impose a maximum level of 0.5 mg/ml in all the member states. today, only three countries in the european union, ireland, malta and the united kingdom, have a maximum blood alcohol level above this value. the commission's recommendation also provided for a reduction in the blood alcohol level to 0.2 mg/ml for certain categories of drivers, including novice drivers, who are the subject of the first question raised by the honourable member. it is precisely novice drivers who are the main victims of road safety and it is therefore essential to reduce as far as possible the risk factors affecting them, for example by authorizing a blood alcohol level for this category not exceeding, as i have said, 0.2 mg/ml. this is in fact linked to the so-called zero rate measure, which was envisaged for this category of drivers in the communication adopted by the commission in october 2006 and which sets out a strategy to support member states in reducing alcohol-related harm. in view of this, ladies and gentlemen, the commission regrets that it does not believe that the political conditions exist for the member states to adopt legislation to further harmonise the alcohol content allowed in our union. the commission is not going to stand by and do nothing about what remains one of the main causes of death on european roads. the commission has taken various measures to this end. first, as regards road checks, the commission's recommendation of 6 april 2004 calls for the intensification of random alcohol tests by means of an effective blood alcohol detection device based on breath-taking, to be used in places and times where excessive alcohol consumption by drivers is regularly recorded. i should also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that drunk driving is one of the offences covered by the proposal for a directive on the crossborder application of road safety legislation, which was adopted by the commission in march this year and is currently being discussed in the council and parliament. i had the opportunity to stress this to my colleagues at the last transport council: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i take this opportunity of this parliamentary debate to remind you that the four penalties in the directive under discussion, in addition to drunk driving, including speeding, failure to use seat belts and driving while under the influence of drugs, well, these four offences are responsible for as many as three out of four road accidents. this means that much can and must be done by the european union, and that is why i once again call on parliament to continue along the lines already set by the vote in the committee on transport. in addition, and i will conclude, mr president, with the aim of making concrete proposals in the near future on driving under the influence of psychoactive substances, the commission launched a four-year research project in october two years ago to improve knowledge in this field and to develop solutions. it's the druid project you're all familiar with. finally, the commission's financial support for awareness-raising campaigns, particularly by young people, to make other young people aware of the dangers of drinking and using drugs while driving is also worth mentioning. an example of this is the campaign entitled 'bob' which has been very successful throughout europe and we must also remember the commission's commitment to brussels to witness the european union's road safety campaign with the outgoing formula one world champion, kimi raikkonen, and also the day dedicated to road safety in cities which took place in paris on 10 october last, which is another sign of the european commission's great commitment to road safety - i made it one of my priorities during the confidence debate after my appointment as european commissioner for transport. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, that is all that can be done, and i hope i have answered your oral question in full.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i thank you for your answer and encourage you to take more bold steps. the directive on the total ban on drink driving should be adopted and renewed. we should not be intimidated by the influence of the alcohol industry. we have a right to safety on our roads, and we should start with the young. you have to be brave to do these projects.
madam president! the demographic trends in europe over the past few years have been deeply worrying. the fertility rate that guarantees simple replacement of generations is 2.16. in poland, the ratio is 1,2. advances in medicine and healthier lifestyles have also helped people to live longer. europe is ageing, but europe is also dying. by 2030, the ratio of the active to the inactive population will be as high as 1 to 2. anti-family economic and social policies, the promotion in the media of the model of the family with few children and childless marriages, and policies favouring the break-up of families are important causes of the negative changes in the demographic situation in europe. the most serious consequences will be: labour market shortages threatening economic development, a sharp decline in the efficiency of pension systems and an increase in the cost of running health systems to meet the specific needs of an ageing population.
madam president! we are all aware that european society is ageing, but do we all realise what the consequences will be for our economy and labour market? in the era of globalization, demographic problems have taken on a much broader dimension. the european union therefore needs to act in a comprehensive way and on a wide range of fronts. on the one hand, we need to ensure that the lisbon objectives are met, to strive to raise employment levels, to increase the participation of women in the labour market and to curb the trend towards early retirement. more emphasis is also needed on education, especially in engineering and information technology, which are so important for the knowledge economy. it is also important to promote lifelong learning, preparing employees to be open to new challenges.
member of the commission. − madam president, despite being drafted before the current turmoil erupted on our financial markets and the economic downturn became apparent, this report is remarkably timely and also relevant. i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her sound work. the report underscores the long-term social demographic and economic changes that are driving the modernisation and reform of our social protection schemes. it highlights the importance of our shared values in the field of social protection. it also shows how they can help to make our pension and health-care systems sustainable. more people working more and longer is the key of the long-term adequacy and sustainability of social protection. it is also a win-win strategy. the report links sustainable, adequate social protection with the lisbon strategy and our commitment to guarantee sustainable public finances. the renewed social agenda proposed by the commission gives substance to that link by advocating a broad holistic approach to future social policies and priorities. i welcome the emphasis on promoting women’s full integration into our labour markets and on fighting all forms of discrimination to ensure that everybody can acquire adequate social security and pension rights in particular. the report emphasises the need to combine the move to funded pensions in many member states with sound national and eu regulatory framework for effective supervision and careful monitoring of outcomes for citizens. that is a very timely message. access to quality medical treatment and preventive care is a cornerstone of eu social models. it is both a goal to be attained for itself and a necessary condition for a productive labour force to exist in a phase of rapid population aging. the commission shares your concern about health inequalities and the need to guarantee high-quality health care for all and solidarity financing covering the whole population. these points will be taken up in a commission communication on health inequalities to come out next year. the report is a strong plea for us all, not only to keep working to achieve our basic objectives of access for all, solidarity, adequacy and sustainability, but also to work to strengthen them through modernisation. the commission will provide its full response to the financial crisis and the downturn in the real economy in a communication to be published on 26 november. it will also elaborate on the constructive social and economic role of social protection in the joint report on social protection and inclusion for 2009. may i assure you of the commission’s willingness to look again at the various points in this report in close cooperation with parliament.
in writing. population ageing and decline are unfortunately the inevitable future of europe. demographers say that birth rates will not ensure generational replacement and life expectancy will increase. the low birth rate is linked to the difficulty of reconciling work and family life - there is a lack of adequate crèches, kindergartens and economic support for families. by the end of 2030, the ratio of the active to the inactive population is likely to be 2:1 mitigating the effects of the decline in the number of people in employment through immigration is only one way to solve the problem. it will also increase ethnic, cultural, and religious diversity. the employment rate (through training and retraining) of disabled and elderly people should therefore be increased. the flexibility of retirement should also be improved by introducing voluntary retirement, organisational change and the use of new technologies. member states should also pursue a balanced fiscal policy, fairly dividing the tax burden between workers, consumers and businesses. demographic change will strongly affect the growth of public expenditure on pensions, which can be mitigated by partial private financing. health care costs will also rise. therefore, ensuring that citizens of the member states have access to health protection and adequate services at an adequate level is a task requiring immediate action at many levels of society and government.
madam president! we are incorporating the rules on the wine market into a common regulation for all the markets that were previously adopted. will it be better for the wine producers? hopefully, this will be a real simplification and reduction of the administrative work that the farmer has to do. the report on the review of the cap, the so-called 'health check', adopted this afternoon, also goes in the direction of limiting controls and administrative burdens on farmers. it was controversial to merge the rules on very specific markets into one regulation, but it has happened. it is worth considering whether we really need to include the wine market, which is a very specific market, operating according to a separate formula in terms of production, processing and tradition.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the wealth of nature is shrinking before our eyes. species are decimated by parasites, disease, chemicals, and irresponsible human activity. in many regions, the balance of the biological balance is being upset and there are serious, irreversible losses. today, we are watching with concern the mass extinction of bees, the silencing of the beehives, and the extinction of many pollination-dependent plant species. the yields of 84% of the crop species grown in europe depend on the conditions of beekeeping. so bees are very much the ones who decide the richness of our food. bees are now decimating diseases and pests that beekeepers cannot control on their own. additional measures are needed to combat and study them. beekeepers cannot also defend the market and the profitability of production on their own. it is therefore necessary to protect our internal market from the inflow of inferior honey from third countries, often in violation of sanitary conditions. beekeepers should also receive support in the form of subsidies or cheaper sugar, as well as extensive promotion. so it's high time we started working like bees. as a beekeeper, i would like to say that i would like the european commission to take the example of bees and not wait 15 years for another sensible programme, which mrs lulling is already so keen to see.
madam president! beekeepers and bees are facing huge problems right now and they need help. we're seeing a dramatic decline in bee populations not just in europe, but around the world. unfortunately, the income and interest of young people in this profession are also declining. there are a few issues that should be resolved in the near future. first, there is a need for more research on the parasites, diseases, and viruses that decimate these hardworking insects. secondly, it is necessary to introduce an obligation to test honey imported from third countries. all products must meet the relevant quality requirements. in addition, the label should contain information on the place of origin of the honey concerned. thirdly, an information campaign should be prepared on the beneficial effects of bees on the environment and on human health of honey and other bee products. in view of the scale of the problem, financial support for endangered breeds should be considered. the beekeeping community is demanding the possibility of buying cheaper sugar, which could be used for so-called bee food. a special support scheme for the beekeeping sector is worth considering because of its immense environmental benefits.
madam president! i would like to congratulate and thank mrs lulling for her constant and passionate concern for the interests of european beekeeping. it's very good that we're talking about this because beekeepers in europe and the world are very concerned and concerned about the disappearance of bees. the cause of the blaze is still under investigation. one of the reasons that scientists have pointed out is the possible impact of biotechnology, specifically the cultivation of genetically modified plants, which may have a negative impact on the functioning of bees. i would therefore like to put a question to the european commission, which is deciding whether to allow further genetically modified crops in the european union. what are the results of the studies and what is the general recognition of the problem of the impact of gmos on the condition of bees in europe?
madam president! the debate in the european parliament on beekeeping has been met with great interest from beekeepers. as a beekeeper, i personally met beekeepers from all over poland in puławy. they asked me to ask the european commission one question and to ask for a specific answer to it, namely, what specifically can be expected from beekeepers in the coming years?
member of the commission. − madam president, i truly believe that this was a very fruitful discussion with many ideas not only for my colleague but for the dg agri services, as well as for my services and others. many of the directorates general other than dg agri are working on the issue we are discussing today: dg sanco, dg research and dg environment. it is really a multidisciplinary issue. when we talk about how much funding is actually committed to this, i think that we will have to look at various other areas as well. let me come first to many of your questions concerning what we are doing, what is in the pipeline and what we actually mean when we talk about research in the bee sector. in the sixth framework programme, a specific target research project on food quality and safety priority was named ‘bees in europe and sustainable honey production’ (bee shop). this gathers together nine european honey bee research groups specialising in honey quality, pathology, genetics and behaviour. do not be misled: fp6 projects are the ones that are already running; fp7 projects are just starting. in addition, the specific support action ‘bee research and virology in europe’ (brave) has enabled the organisation of two large multidisciplinary conferences, involving experts working in fundamental and applied research on bees – experts on virology, diagnosis, immunology and epidemiology – as well as international trade, policy formulation and disease risk assessment. a call for proposals was published on 3 september this year, on the theme of food agriculture and fisheries biotechnology, on the identification of emerging honey bee pests and diseases, and the re-emergence of pathogens, aimed at elucidating the intimate mechanisms and reasons for the increased honey bee mortality. so it is exactly linked to this topic and many of your questions. the environmental aspects, including chronic exposure to pesticides, will also be taken into account. the integrated project alarm, on assessing large-scale environmental risks for biodiversity, is also funded under the sixth framework programme and includes a module on pollinator loss. alarm will develop and test methods and protocols for the assessment of large-scale environmental risks in order to minimise negative direct and indirect human impacts. research will focus on assessment and focus of changes in biodiversity structure, function, dynamism of ecosystems – in particular risk arising from climate change, environmental chemicals, biological invasions and pollinator loss in the context of current and future european land-use betterance will also be assessed. these are all current initiatives. one thing which i would like to underline – since this was also stressed by your colleague – is that europe is not short of expertise. i think we have to be aware of this and also be fair. at european union level we deal with 5% – i repeat, 5% – of european union public money which is devoted to research. so it is of the utmost important that we join forces and do as much as possible practically. the creation of the european research area, which i fully support, is actually exactly this idea – that we all know what we are doing and that we join the scientific expertise which we already have across europe. this is certainly a missing element in europe today. i will ensure that the commissioner responsible for research hears your calls for further research – that is me, but today i am in a different role. one thing which i would also like to mention – because it was perhaps not fully understand in my introduction – is the efsa full assessment on bee mortality and bee surveillance in europe. this was published on 11 august 2008, so it is a new thing. it is exactly the analysis of the programme which you are searching for and i think it is important that we all look at what we have before us. i must also answer the colleague who asked about gmo crops. the only gmo crop currently cultivated in the european union is bt-maize mon 810. bt-maize, and bt-toxin in general, have been extensively analysed with regard to the possible impact on bee health. forced feeding trials, where healthy bees are exposed to high doses of bt-toxin, have not shown any negative effect. overall, the overwhelming majority of studies show that this bt-maize pollen diet has no impact on bees. i can add to this that the recently observed massive losses of bees, termed ‘colony collapse disorder’ (ccv), in north america and also in europe do not appear to be related to the use of gmo crops as they are also reported from other areas where no gmo crops are grown. for example, bee losses observed in southern germany have been clearly attributed to poisoning by the pesticide poncho pro. it also has a latin name, which is so difficult that i would rather not read it out. in conclusion, commission actions will certainly continue and be strengthened. they will help beekeepers to face the current difficulties and encourage them to continue their activity. i also hope that will encourage new entrants to the profession since this activity plays an extremely important role, not only for our eu biodiversity, but also economically. as regards my colleague commissioner fischer boel’s direct responsibilities, she will continue to make sure that the national beekeeping programmes are used in the most efficient way. however, in the first instance, it is up to the member states to spend their budgets in an appropriate way. today we have eur 26.3 million in european money each year. this is doubled by adding the money from the member states – but we are not spending it. we are spending 80% of that money. member states are not spending what is currently at their disposal. finally, the best solution to guarantee a future for the sector is to encourage consumption of eu honey. since 2004, honey has been added to the list of eligible products for promotion on the internal market and several programmes have been accepted. my answer was longer because i just wanted to make clear to you that we are taking these actions seriously and that you should count on us – definitely also in my area – to continue to do so. thank you for your attention and for staying so long.
on paper. bees are important to different cultures and in different parts of the world. their universality is not accidental. beekeeping has been an important part of the economy since prehistoric times, before the advent of written history. honey has been harvested in spain for 6,000 years. today, the efforts of bees and beekeepers can be wasted by environmental and, indirectly, human impacts. we still have people in europe who live off their work and their bees. these people sell honey that they make themselves. we should be happy about that. there are also attempts to return to traditional forestry. in poland, these attempts are supported by bartniks who came from bashkiria, because there was no one in the country who remembered the ancient techniques. beekeeping is of cultural, social and economic importance. that is why we must protect europe's beekeeping. unfortunately, there is a way to protect this specific activity: from economic risks, such as unfair competition from third countries, from health and biological risks, such as diseases, parasites, environmental pollution and the unwise use of plant protection products. the european commission and the member states should support the beekeeping sector, which is facing these serious threats. it can be very difficult for beekeepers to save the rich biodiversity that bees contribute to.
mr. chairman, please! chairman caldeira spoke of risk as a major factor in the error in the report. i would like to concentrate for a moment on the european development fund. it covers africa, the caribbean and the pacific. the risk is different there than in the member states, it is greater than in the member states. it is important that the court has found that the transactions underlying the revenue and liabilities for the financial year are legal and regular. this general statement gives us a basis for thinking positively about the whole report. however, there is a significant level of error in the transactions underlying the payments. the court has reservations about the commission's dynamic interpretation of the eligibility criteria. the court must be agreed that that interpretation is flawed. the point is that it does not enable member states to meet the standards of sound public financial management. the commission should review its position as soon as possible. the commission has already been asked to do so by parliament. cooperation with the un is another problem raised in the report, namely the un's reluctance or neglect to provide relevant documents related to the payments. the court identified three main areas of significant error. these include: eligibility of expenditure, settlement of pre-financing and payment of incorrect amounts. those errors should have been and could have been detected and corrected by the authorising officers much earlier. the translation therefore does not convince the commission that the cost of controls is very high, as indicated by the ratio of these costs to effectiveness. it's hard to agree with that. it is the commission that should increase its efficiency and increase its staff. we, as parliament, asked the commission to do this a year ago. in conclusion, the information provided by the court of auditors is balanced in this respect. i point out this general correctness, but also the areas of significant error. the court also made its own recommendations, which are to a large extent to be welcomed.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to express my appreciation to the court for the report which confirms the consistency of the court's action. i would also like to say that this report is always analysed in a certain context. the context is very important right now, because first of all, we're working on a new shape of politics after 2013. secondly, there are debates about how to monitor and how to evaluate the effectiveness of policies. thirdly, we are all working on the european union's response to the financial crisis and on adapting tools, methods and instruments to new challenges. so when we look at the effects of the report - it focuses on cohesion policy - it is striking that where the commission itself is responsible for some actions, the report says there is a clear improvement. the report also stresses that the eu's efforts to improve the quality of life and the quality of life of its citizens are not limited to the most basic needs of the citizens. i would point out that when we are working on new policies, we must clearly distinguish - as mr ferber said - between errors, abuses and inefficiencies, and how to relate these to the effectiveness of policies. in my view, it is not possible to identify clearly the error or the level of error with the ineffectiveness of a given policy. too simple a deduction can cause us to abandon policies that are absolutely necessary in the new situation.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to begin by thanking ms gräßle for her energetic drive in this matter and the committee on budgetary control for forcefully carrying through the debate. the commission appreciates the considerable work of the rapporteur, who was instrumental in taking up this proposal, pending since 2006. a first proposal had already been made in 2004. times have changed since 2004 and 2006. the largest part of olaf’s work now is not with the institutions but with external parties, conducting anti-fraud investigations throughout europe and indeed throughout the world, wherever eu funds are spent. it has great success in this work, as is widely recognised. what remains is a schizophrenic situation, if you allow that analytical term: on the one hand olaf is a ‘normal’ commission directorate general, for which the commission has full responsibility; on the other hand, it is an investigative function, fully independent in its operations, but for which the commission is also held responsible. where are the limitations, and where are the limits of independence and accountability in such a set-up? it is our view that with the necessary independence from outside interference of a credible anti-fraud service comes the need for a clear and strong governance set-up. clear rules for investigations and strong accountability arrangements are the mirror of operational independence. there are basically only two options: olaf as part of the commission, but with clear allocation and separation of responsibility, or make olaf entirely independent from any eu institution and ensure separate strong oversight and accountability. the guiding principles behind the commission’s 2006 proposal were to strengthen the existing olaf legal framework: a clearer governance set-up for olaf; reinforced accountability and oversight; reinforced protection of persons under investigation and a reinforced framework for investigations and their follow-up. on that basis, the commission can fully support the amendments proposed in the draft report you are voting on today that are in line with the broad objectives of reform, and can thank you for those developed further. on the other hand, the commission made it very clear throughout the drafting process that some amendments cannot be taken into account in the current situation, simply because olaf’s present status as a commission directorate-general does not legally permit such changes. this includes, for example: olaf concluding independent cooperation agreements; olaf’s independent appearance before the european court of justice; or the european parliament and the council deciding on olaf directorate-general appointments. the commission also made clear that it cannot accept a limited number of proposals which, in their current wording, would depart from the governance improvements envisaged or would remove safeguards contained in the current regulation. this covers, for example, the scope of the governance framework, the procedural rights of persons concerned or a more effective follow-up of minor cases. however, the commission took careful note that, in parallel to the discussion of the current reform proposal, both the european parliament and the council repeatedly, and in a particularly insistent manner, stressed their preference for further simplification and consolidation of the entire complex of anti-fraud legislation. the upcoming czech presidency asked the commission to present a concept paper on that in time for a working-level discussion scheduled during the latter part of its mandate. the commission is therefore striving to present the requested broad reflection paper in early 2009, based on past experience with the existing anti-fraud set-up and the input from the current reform discussion, as well as any other useful elements, as sketched out above. the european parliament will be fully involved in that. let me conclude by stressing again that the commission is thankful for the support from the european parliament. the commission is not shying away from openly saying where, in our view, the limits are, but the commission has been, and will remain, ready to discuss in a spirit of full transparency and cooperation all issues necessary to designing a strong and credible framework for the future of olaf and a successful fight against fraud.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: our debate comes on the eve of the 10th anniversary of olaf. the european anti-fraud office was created from the ruins of the disgraced, corrupt and nepotist commission headed by jacques santerra. life has shown that olaf is essential for the smooth functioning of the union's administration, but its very existence and operation is also a signal to the public opinion of the member states of the union that the bodies of the european union are under constant surveillance, control and scrutiny. the work of olaf in itself enhances the prestige of the european institutions. the work that is now being carried out, which is already well advanced, is intended to strengthen olaf's role in practice by: firstly, improving its working conditions; secondly, improving the quality of its operations; and thirdly, as my predecessors have said, strengthening its independence (thank you to the rapporteur on this occasion). this has been going on for four years. the european commission was the initiator, following the unfortunate experience of being forced to resign nine years ago. the document setting out olaf's new framework was consulted by the council of the union, the court of auditors, the data protection inspectorate, but also, and importantly, by a public hearing, which sought to engage public opinion. it was the conclusions of this public hearing and the court's special report that brought about the major changes to the original proposals four years ago. for example, it has been necessary to clarify the issues of olaf's cooperation with the member states of the union and with the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union. the key issue is to increase olaf's independence in a meaningful way. its staff must be completely independent in the performance of their duties. in the case of olaf investigations into the distribution of union funds, both to member states and to external assistance, the participation of the third countries and international organisations concerned in the course of olaf's activities should be guaranteed. in order to speed up olaf's work, it should be ensured that the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies grant olaf immediate and automatic access to databases concerning the management of european union funds and to any databases and relevant information. it's like a counter-culture that's been around for a while, where these very institutions have been hermetically sealed off from scrutiny. member states cannot treat olaf as an enemy or an unnecessary institution. each country of the union should designate the authorities of its administration which will cooperate with olaf on an ongoing basis. as you know, not all of our 27 member states have set up specialised services responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud at national level in the area of eu funds. close cooperation between olaf and europol and between olaf and eurojust is necessary. olaf must also be very transparent, including in its investigative procedure, procedural guarantees, the control of the legality of investigative activities and appeal procedures for suspects or those who may become suspects at a rapid pace. in the case of procedures concerning member states, controls may be carried out by representatives of those member states. they may be attended by representatives of the judiciary and duly involved in the olaf structure. that's what the amendments say. i am also against excessive sanctions against officials of the european institutions who allow themselves to make unauthorised disclosures about individual offices and potential corrupt practices. the case of our colleague, mr van buitenen, now an mep and formerly an official of the european commission, shows that in the past, repression has been directed not against those who committed abuses but against those who tried to identify, track and expose them. let this experience also serve as a warning when it comes to specific provisions on penalties and sanctions for officials who disclose information without authorisation. finally, citizens of the member states often overly identify corruption and abuse with the european institutions. to counteract this, there is a need for greater transparency in the work of the union's institutions, but also for much better information on the investigations carried out, on the methods by which the union actually combats corruption. hiding this information under the pretext that talking about it will lower the prestige of the union is a serious mistake. on the contrary, we must make these matters public so that the citizens and taxpayers of the european union know that theft is not shamefully swept under the carpet in our country.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am very happy to be presenting my green credentials in addition to my anti-fraud credentials, so changing topics is also a pleasure. i would like to thank the european parliament for this discussion on the very important topic of environmental inspections. recognising the need for eu-wide action, parliament and the council adopted the recommendation on environmental inspections in 2001. the objective was to lay down common criteria for environmental inspections in order to ensure a better and more consistent implementation of environmental legislation through the community. at the time there was a long discussion on whether these criteria should be binding or non-binding. as a compromise, a non-binding recommendation was adopted. member states pledged to implement it fully and the commission was asked to review this decision on the basis of the experience with the implementation of the recommendation by the member states. the commission launched the review process with its communication of november 2007. in this communication the commission concluded that, although the recommendation has led to improvements in environmental inspections in some member states, it has unfortunately not been fully implemented in all member states. the commission thus put forward its preliminary views on how the situation could be improved. the measures that we deem necessary are: firstly, a modification of the recommendation to make it stronger and clearer, including a better reporting mechanism; secondly, where necessary, to complement the recommendation with legally binding inspection requirements in individual directives; and thirdly, to continue supporting the exchange of information and best practice between inspectorates in the context of impel. the commission is now gathering the input of the other institutions and of stakeholders on these initial proposals and will then present its final proposals. now, coming to the questions raised, i would like to make the following remarks. firstly, i would like to clarify that the views presented in the commission’s communication of november 2007 do not exclude the possibility of the commission presenting a proposal for a directive on environmental inspections in the future. the commission’s view, as expressed in its communication, is that there is a need for eu-wide legally binding rules to ensure effective environmental inspections. in that respect we have the same position as parliament. the question is, however, whether such rules should be horizontal and cover all environmental inspections or whether they should be sectoral and apply to specific installations or activities. both of these approaches have their advantages and disadvantages. a horizontal approach would be simpler and quicker to put in place. on the other hand, the sectoral approach would enable us to better address the specific aspects of the different installations or activities. for instance, the requirements for inspections of waste shipments are completely different from those for the inspection of industrial installations. by being more targeted we could set more effective requirements. to some extent, the sectoral approach is the one that we have already been practising for several years. for example, in the seveso ii directive, we have provisions on inspections of installations in order to prevent accidents. these provisions have proven to be very successful. we have now included inspection requirements in our proposal to revise the ippc directive. another sector where we see the need for further action is the implementation of the eu waste shipment regulation. the growing problem of illegal waste shipments is a risk for human health and the environment. there is clear evidence of illegal shipments recorded during joint eu waste shipment inspections coordinated by impel. recent trade data and studies on the export of certain waste streams, in particular electrical and electronic waste and end-of-life vehicles, indicate that significant volumes leave the eu. in many cases these shipments seem to violate the eu waste shipment regulation’s export bans. serious incidents of eu exports for dumping of waste in developing countries, such as the côte d’ivoire incident in 2006, as well as a recent greenpeace report about waste illegally shipped to west africa, underline the severity of the problem. the commission is currently examining the need for additional initiatives, including improved legislative requirements, in order to further and strengthen the inspections and controls of waste shipments. as we stated in our communication, we also see a need to establish common definitions for terms that are relevant for inspections. for this purpose we think that a horizontal recommendation would be an appropriate instrument. as regards the idea of transforming impel into an eu environmental inspection force, impel was created as an informal network of member states’ inspection authorities. its objective is to facilitate exchange of information and best practice between the people who are actually applying environmental legislation in the member states. i think we should preserve this role of impel of bringing together the expertise of inspectors and allowing for an informal exchange of ideas at european level. from the commission’s side we will continue our support to impel and reinforce our successful cooperation. this year impel was transformed from an informal network into an international association. this will not only give impel more visibility but also open new possibilities of activities for impel. to go further and create an eu environmental inspection force with powers of entry and powers to refer member states to the court of justice is an interesting and ambitious idea. however, it would raise important legal and institutional questions. we should also look at the instruments for the improvement of the enforcement of eu environmental legislation at our disposal at present and consider whether these could be further developed or put to better use. for example, the horizontal infringement cases that the commission launched against member states for systematic failure to enforce certain obligations, such as for the presence of thousands of illegal landfills in some member states, have led to the establishment of improved enforcement strategies in the member states. another example of an initiative that has led to better enforcement is the joint inspections of waste shipments throughout the community organised within the framework of impel with the support of the commission. we would consider ways to reinforce this cooperation and encourage all member states to participate in it.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. on behalf of my political group and as a member of the committee on the environment, i want to give my full support to the questions and share the concerns of the members who have expressed themselves in them. the commission's november 2007 communication is indeed highly controversial and raises questions for all those who are pro-environmental and who want environmental law to be not only enacted in the european parliament but enforced and enforced in the spirit we have developed here. to do that, we need an effective system of enforcement and compliance, and we still have that system in the pipeline. we have national systems that operate differently and divergently, but at the eu level we have a recommendation. the recommendation is not binding. we all know that. the treaty of rome, in article 249, deals with these matters and shows the difference between a directive and a recommendation. i therefore urge the commission to take this matter seriously and to adopt the whole system of controls on compliance with the law, inspections and reports resulting from these procedures as a binding standard, in the form of a directive on the control of compliance with environmental law in the european union. we cannot leave it as it is and we cannot expect that an improvement on one of the recommendations of 2001, i.e. imposing new obligations on the states, will change anything. no, commissioner, it won't change anything. simply put, if we want to have effective environmental law, we need to have an effective enforcement system and a control system. and again, you ask whether we should introduce sectoral or global control provisions. and i'm asking you if you want to protect the whole environment or just sectors. so that's the answer.
madam president! i share the european commission's view that there are wide disparities in the way environmental controls are carried out in the member states, which makes it impossible to ensure the consistent implementation and enforcement of community law. in my parliamentary work, i had the opportunity to see the results of several projects carried out within the impel network, including the project on the control of transboundary movements of waste through seaports. i have found that the cooperation of the inspection services within the impel network is not only an exchange of experience but also, and perhaps above all, a joint inspection and exchange of information on environmental crimes and offences. some dishonest traders knowingly move their illegal activities to countries where they know that the control system is weaker and they can operate with impunity. if the control systems in all member states were uniform, such practices would not take place. this is another argument for an efficient and uniform system of environmental verification in the european union. controls are a very important instrument in the process of implementing and enforcing union law, but member states give controls different political priorities. i therefore fully support the european commission's proposal to amend the existing recommendations in order to improve their effectiveness. i agree with the proposal to include legally binding requirements for the control of individual installations and activities in sectoral legislation. this will allow greater political priority to be given to controls and better enforcement of environmental law throughout the community.
in writing. - the european union must tackle the phenomenon of economic migration. unfortunately, compared to the united states, canada or australia, the european union is not seen by skilled workers as an attractive place to migrate. the main reason for this is the lack of a uniform system for the reception of migrants and the problems associated with moving between community countries. a comprehensive and coherent approach to european migration policy is needed to change this. it is important to remember that by attracting highly qualified people, the european union gains - it increases its competitiveness and has the chance to experience economic growth. it is estimated that over the next two decades the union will face a shortage of 20 million skilled workers, mainly engineers. these projections cannot be underestimated. i believe that the employment of immigrants cannot in any case be a long-term solution to the economic problems of the european union. it should take further action in the field of economic and employment policy, but it is now in need of labour migrants also because of the ageing of the population and the progressive demographic changes. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the european blue card for skilled migrants.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i've been in dozens of human rights debates in this room, but maybe today i'm especially moved, because really, when we talk about big numbers, about thousands of people being killed, it slowly gets out of hand. but when we look at the murder of one particular person, a child in fact, a 13-year-old girl aisha ibrahim duhulow, the cruelty of this act really makes us think about what we can do. well, of course, what's happening in somalia is not just this horrific, cruel murder in the majesty of that regional, islamic, religious law. it is also worth mentioning, and my predecessors did not mention, the suicide bombings which have killed 30 people recently. it's also a public flogging in the nation's capital to demonstrate the power of radical islamists. it's also a lot of cases of blatant human rights violations. it is also - and this is something that is less talked about, but which needs to be emphasized - the recent kidnapping of two italian catholic sisters from kenya, who are being held in somalia. in conclusion, we must say no today, and very firmly!
author. − mr president, every thursday afternoon during our plenary sessions in strasbourg we learn of yet new tragedies, vile crimes, atrocities and grave injustices. the competition for the three places allocated to urgency debates is the best indication of man’s continued inhumanity to man. against this dismal backdrop it is hard to imagine that any case could still manage to shock us. we may say we have heard it all. yet every once in a while we deal with a case so utterly repugnant that we are proved wrong. the stoning to death of a 13-year-old girl child in somalia is just such a case: first the victim of a mass rape, subsequently found guilty of adultery while the perpetrators of the rape go free, and finally sentenced to the most horrible of deaths. as colleagues have already mentioned, 50 men stoned her to death, with a crowd of a thousand bystanders watching the horror unfold. to their credit, some of the gathered crowd tried to save the petrified child. however, militia opened fire on those who had the decency to try to protect this victim of an inhuman and bigoted practice. one young boy paid with his life, the victim of militia gunshots. in the face of this horrific crime, what can we possibly do to right the wrong? we must give every support to the transitional federal government of somalia, as only by reasserting some control and rule of law in areas of the country controlled by the radical opposition groups can there be any prospect of avoiding a repetition of this and other atrocities. the somali government should restore the honour of the victim, aisha ibrahim duhulow, posthumously. this chamber expresses its sincere condolences to aisha’s family. it was i that proposed aisha’s case be placed on today’s agenda. thank you for supporting that request. may we never have to debate a similar instance in this chamber again.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're talking about an event in somalia today that is beyond the imagination of the average european. the first thought that comes to mind when you hear something like this is the refusal to acknowledge it. you just don't want to believe that something like this is even possible. but we should realize that this is possible, because the internal situation in somalia means that various, even the most unacceptable and unimaginable phenomena can occur there. moreover, the situation in somalia affects the already very difficult and complex horn of africa region. the improvement of human rights in this region and in this country will only be possible if the political situation changes. so we should support the implementation of the peace agreement with djibouti, because without peace, stability, improved security and responsible government, we will hear more about tragedies like aisha's death.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the human rights situation in somalia today is much broader than the examples mentioned in the resolution, which of course dramatically illustrate the barbarism against the most vulnerable, including girls, women and abducted nuns. in somalia, where 95% of the population is muslim and one of the poorest countries in the world, the majority of the population lives below the poverty line, the illiteracy rate is 70%, and the average life expectancy is 47 years. although somalia gained independence more than 40 years ago, conflict continues to be caused by rivalry between clans over grazing land and water sources. before independence, conflicts were suppressed by the colonialists. left to their own devices, the somalis began a civil war that intensified with the economic collapse. in such circumstances, the fight against terrorism and piracy should be primarily about eradicating poverty and destitution through humanitarian assistance to the poorest and enabling them to develop. the hard-won stability in somalia has been destroyed by outside interference under the guise of fighting terrorism. the divided, poor, uneducated and easily manipulated tribes that inhabit somali land are becoming a good tool to continue the anarchy and division. all nations have the right to choose their own way of thinking and living, and the international aid offered should not be used to spread their own ideology or expand their influence. this is not the first time that opponents have used religion to discredit and fight for power, not only in somalia but also in vietnam and india, where the persecution of catholics has become an election campaign issue. however, in the case of the persecution of christians, the left-liberal circles in parliament do not allow a debate to stop the persecution and violation of human rights.
mr. chairman, please! ngos are warning that somalia is the most ignored humanitarian tragedy unfolding before the eyes of the world. people are dying en masse from hunger, thirst, disease, and one in four children in somalia die before they're five years old. the capital mogadishu was deserted. the artillery is open to civilians. the civilian population is being terrorized by suicide bombers. pirates are rampaging off the coast of somalia, and on the mainland, the somali taliban forces are gaining ground, moving steadily towards the capital and imposing strict sharia law. let us not be fooled, it is being used freely for its own ends. when you add to that the disasters caused by drought or floods, the sheer scale of the tragedy emerges. natural disasters are understandable, but why are there so many guns in poor somalia? i think this is the result of the cynical behaviour of some countries in this poor part of africa who want to do their often dirty business, while we are happy and accept that the olympic games are being held in china.
mr. chairman, please! for years, somalia has been the scene of brutal fighting, lawlessness and ship hijacking. two poles were also kidnapped recently. however, what happened on october 27 is beyond human imagination. a 13-year-old girl, aisha ibrahim duhulow, was stoned to death. the child was raped by three men. the perpetrators of the rape were never arrested or convicted. in the book of genesis, she was stoned to death by fifty men in the presence of about a thousand witnesses. aisha was punished, according to islamic law, for the rape she was assigned. this drastic act, it's not an individual matter, but a brutal act of islamic law in the name of god punishing the victim of the crime for the crime. i call on the somali authorities to stop this barbarity, to punish the perpetrators of this act with an example and to rehabilitate aisha.
mr. chairman, please! we're debating today the murder of a girl stoned to death in somalia. at the same time, we are aware that two catholic nuns have been kidnapped and are being held in somalia. and behind all of this is the piracy that's taking place off the coast of somalia. we hear that all this is because the country is practically a government that doesn't work. where are the nobles of this world? where are the mighty united states, china, russia, the european union, who claim to be civilized countries? as long as states are unable to intervene to defend the weakest, attacked by those who are not so powerful, they cannot be considered civilized states. where are we in this situation? mr. chairman, please! i appeal to the powerful of this world: do your part! do your duty!
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this debate is, of course, in a sense a debate about the death penalty as such, but i would not like it to be, because in fact, it is really a matter of the specific situation. yes, we know reports that say that the reduction in the number of executions in recent years has not reduced crime in this country. and it's a temptation for death penalty supporters to continue to use it. but the fact is that last year, only 7 out of 53 african union countries carried out executions, 13 suspended executions and 22 executions were not carried out. i think nigeria should go down that road, also under pressure from the european union. we can point to the fact that people are executed when they are very young or very young. there are many such people, at least 40 in nigeria. it's a particularly drastic situation when such young people are waiting for the death penalty to be carried out. it's a bigger issue, of course. in this country, it's very easy to sentence a man to death. especially since one-quarter of nigeria is governed by sharia law, islamic law, muslim law, where you actually amputate, like, an arm or a leg, and you can whip people. this is an unacceptable situation. you have to speak up.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the death penalty for poverty is a reality in nigeria. i call on the nigerian authorities to grant a moratorium on the death penalty and to commute sentences. the hundreds of people sentenced to death there are the ones who couldn't afford a fair trial. convicted on the basis of testimony coerced by torture, without the means of qualified lawyers, without the chance to find documents lost five or 15 years ago, they are waiting in inhuman conditions for the execution of the death penalty. the target windows often overlook the courtyard where the executions take place. about 40 of those sentenced to death are minors. the crimes they're accused of were committed when they were between the ages of 13 and 17. appeals are heard for an average of 5 years, but sometimes for up to 20 years. 41% of the convicts did not file appeals. their case files are missing, or they can't file their own papers, and they can't afford a lawyer. nigerian law does not allow torture. he doesn't consider the evidence he's extracted to be valid. but the police torture. the trials are chronic. the testimony of tortured witnesses is often the only evidence in a case. a poor person's fair trial is virtually impossible.
mr. chairman, please! the death penalty has always given rise to reflection and many questions. first, does a man have the right to decide about another man's life? second, can he decide when a confession is made under torture? should juvenile delinquents be killed or raised? the answer to that question is no. no one has given man such a right. man made them for himself. and if so, he can also eliminate them, withdraw from it, and never commit such acts again. i am addressing this not only to the nigerian authorities, but also to all those people who believe that they are masters of the life and death of another human being.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have a feeling this is a different matter than the ones we've discussed before. the tragedy of a 13-year-old girl being murdered in front of a mob in somalia, the issue of the death penalty and the hundreds of people waiting for her in nigeria are different from the one we are discussing right now. we have to say that we are observers of a certain drama of a palestinian family and that drama must be bent over. on the other hand, i wanted to emphasize that unlike nigeria and somalia, this is not a black and white movie. the very complex history of the last 50 years in these areas shows that there were often both jews and palestinians who were victims. the balance of the damage done by both sides is certainly unequal, and that's not what we're talking about. i am speaking here so that in the future we can try to see things in a somewhat broader context. perhaps then we would be entitled to a fairer trial than is sometimes the case here.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on sunday, november 9th of this year, the israeli military evicted the al-kurd family from their home in sheikh jarrah in east jerusalem, where they had lived for over 50 years. the eviction was the result of a decision by the israeli supreme court in july of this year, which ended a long and highly controversial process before israeli courts and authorities. it should be noted that this family was deprived of their home despite strong opposition from the international community, and the supreme court's decision actually paves the way for the seizure of another 26 homes in the same area. the fate of the al-kurd family and the numerous cases of destruction of palestinian families' homes in various areas of east jerusalem by the israeli authorities are of great concern. these actions are illegal under international law and the international community, and in particular the quartet, should make every effort to protect the palestinians living in this area and other areas of east jerusalem. calls on the israeli authorities to immediately cease the expansion of settlements and the construction of the wall beyond the 1967 borders; these actions are in breach of international law and seriously threaten the achievement of a lasting peace agreement between the palestinians and the israelis.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the statement that the rules were abused today. but the rules are in place, and the 40-person protest rule is the rule, even though we know we can never do it on a thursday afternoon. i wanted to ask the president what he thought about the requirement that 40 people protest against an oral amendment should be changed when there are so few people in the chamber that it cannot possibly work.
president of the council. - madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, group chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to return to what mr daul said and say that, like him, i want to welcome the work done by the commission, particularly as regards the strengthening of the financial architecture: in fact, there are now four important directives that have been put on the table by the commission, which have been approved by the council of ministers for economic and financial affairs, and this in a shorter period of time since september. it is a matter of the european parliament, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support this. this trust will be found in unity and coordination, as many have pointed out. i would like to reassure mr daul, i know him well and i know that he is much closer to the values of the social market economy and that he is not a savage capitalist. i want to reassure everyone, but you only have to have been around him to know that. so i would like to thank him for that and also say that we have really launched the institutional road map and i have seen the concerns he has expressed and the concerns of his group in this regard. i would also like to tell mr rasmussen that the objective of employment is obviously at the heart of the french presidency's concerns, that what he said, and what has also been stressed by others, is that we are aware that with more coordination we will double or even increase the added value we can bring, and that on the method, namely the establishment of concrete projects, practical objectives and a timetable, we agree with what has been indicated by mr rasmussen. i would also like to reassure mr graham watson who is extremely pragmatic and very practical in his mind and president watson rightly stressed that swift action is still necessary. i do not think i need to repeat this to the president-in-office of the council, but i will tell him to act even faster. i don't really think he's forgotten the need for it. i would like to reassure president watson that the urgency remains, we are fully aware of it, and you have said it too, that we should not sacrifice, particularly in the fight against climate change, and i say this also to mrs doyle who is here, what are the long-term requirements, as mrs harms has also stressed, to short-term interests, and that we should not sacrifice the selfishness that may exist in each and every one of us to what solidarity must be, particularly with regard to our friends in central and eastern europe, particularly with regard to poland, the baltic states and other states, and that this will also be at the heart of the european council of 11 and 12 december. as i said to mrs harms, we must not give in to the objectives. it is not at all the intention of the presidency to give in on the objectives. i said that the commission's package was consistent, that there were a number of objectives which had been set in their time, not by the french presidency, and that these objectives would have to be respected. it is a moral imperative in the present crisis, we cannot enter into international negotiations thinking that it is the developing countries who will have to make the effort. we must also have a duty of solidarity in this respect towards the developing countries. as regards the agreement reached in the trilogue with the european parliament, and i thank your assembly for that, i believe that with regard to cars, it is a balanced agreement and a very precise long-term objective that has been set and, secondly, there is a progressive and quite incentive penalty system that has also been developed for manufacturers and, thirdly, there is the promotion of eco-innovation. on the financial markets, i refer mrs harms to what i said in support of what president daul had just said. i am glad that mr crowley has referred to the need for coordination. i have heard what he said about the initiatives taken by the irish government. we are working closely together, we are following this very closely and you can count on the presidency to show understanding and tolerance, as you have said. i want to tell mrs mcdonald that we know what the electoral and social context in ireland is, that we also know how to hear ireland, to tell her that there is no cynical manoeuvre in all this and in the dialogue we have with the irish authorities and that everyone is trying to be constructive so that, as president barroso has stressed, we can keep the course, a course which the crisis shows clearly, is still absolutely necessary as regards the institutional context and the lisbon treaty. i want to tell mrs dahl that we will act with ireland and that we must of course show solidarity but that everyone must show responsibility and actually reassure mr allister that we will be able to act effectively on these various fronts. in conclusion, and in the light of what has been said by the various speakers and president barroso, as i listen to these debates, i am struck by the urgent need to maintain our unity and show solidarity: solidarity and coordination in economic and financial matters; solidarity in the face of the climate challenge; solidarity with regard to energy security vis-à-vis the countries which are most in difficulty in this respect; solidarity also on other issues which will be discussed in the field of defence; solidarity also with the developing countries and with the south - that is the meaning of the union for the mediterranean; solidarity with ireland but also responsibility for finding a way out and for ensuring that the lisbon treaty enters into force as soon as possible; the european union is also committed to solidarity with the east and the countries of the eastern neighbourhood, thanks to the initiative taken by the eastern partnership commission, which i am sure will be approved at the next european council. i think this is important in order to meet the challenges we face today.
president of the commission. − madam president, just to focus on the point that was most important regarding my statement – the european economic recovery plan – i would like to say thank you for the very broad support for the plan presented by the commission, namely the statements made by mr daul, mr rasmussen, mr watson, mr crowley – thank you very much for your support. i am sure that with the very active role of the french presidency – and here i want to underline the commitment of jean-pierre jouyet – i think we can achieve real progress. mr rasmussen spoke about ambition and concluded by saying that you share our ambition. i thank him for his remarks. first of all, i agree that the major point should be employment. this is fully compatible with the objectives of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. i agree that it is by measuring employment that we can some time from now assess how effective our response has been. it is a critical, difficult time, a very challenging task. as for coordination, you may count on the commission: we want as much coordination as possible and we have some instruments for that. as we have said in our communication, we will ask for a new convergence programme for the member states in the framework of the stability and growth pact and we also have our exercise in the european strategy, that is the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. so with the lisbon country-specific recommendations – and we are going back to this immediately after the european council on 18 december – and with the new stability and convergence programmes, we will be sure that member states will also coordinate the way they implement it. but now i am going to be, as always, very frank and open with you. you say that you support it. please also support us, the different political families, as well as your political family, when speaking with some of the finance ministers of our governments. this is very important. it is important to get agreement with our governments in a cross-national, cross-party dimension if we want to succeed. this is the question because traditionally, as you know, there is great resistance by member states to the very idea of coordination. when we reviewed the lisbon strategy after the kok report, some member states completely rejected the very idea of coordination. some time ago, when this crisis was coming, some very important politicians rejected the very idea of a european plan, still less coordination. it is fair to say that there is already a consensus about some level of coordination for a recovery plan. but there is not yet, to be honest with you, full agreement on the need, for instance, to mobilise unspent money from the european community budget. that was discussed yesterday in the economic and financial affairs council, without agreement yet being reached. there was a very important agreement, but it was on our proposal for an increase in the capital of the european investment bank. there were also other very important agreements. to conclude, i would say that we are in favour of reinforced cooperation, but you know that traditionally there is some resistance. my political point is the following: if it is not now in the face of this crisis that we are able to agree on an increased level of coordination, when will it be? that is why i said in my introductory remarks that this is a test for europe. apart from the important, concrete economic terms of the response, it is also a test for europe to see whether europe does indeed wish to translate this level of concern into real coordination for the future. this will be the position of the european commission which i will bring to the european council. one final point regarding smart green growth. yes, that is what we have put in our proposal. i thank you for your comments on it. we have made very concrete proposals on energy efficiency, on the rapid take-up of green products, on developing clean technologies for cars and construction, precisely because we want to highlight one point: what we are proposing to member states is not spending just for the sake of spending. spending for the sake of spending is not a solution. the important thing is that it is smart spending: spending that responds to the immediate, short-term needs to stimulate demand – for reasons that i think do not need to be demonstrated – but also spending that is a real investment for the future, for our green agenda, for our fight against climate change, for energy efficiency, for inter-connections, for innovation. that is what we are proposing: spending that in the short term is not in contradiction with the medium and long term. that is the proposal that we will try to get approved in the european council. i really think that we are now much closer to that and i am hopeful that we will have historic decisions at the next european council meeting.
madam president! poland has done a lot to find a compromise on the climate package. we proposed changing the base year and taking into account the co2 that is absorbed by the forests. today, we propose a system based on benchmarking the best technologies and excluding some sensitive industries from the auction system. the presidency is in charge now. if we have found a solution for the german automobile industry, why can't we find a solution for the central european countries? a seeming compromise, in the form of merely slowing down poland's entry into the auction system, is not acceptable in our country. we do not accept that hypothetical climate change targets should be achieved at the expense of energy price increases, at the expense of the relocation of energy, cement, metal or glass production outside the union, at the expense of slowing down economic growth and mass redundancies. no one in poland - neither the government nor the opposition - can give such consent.
madam president, the modern world economy is based on a gigantic pyramid of debts: the debts of states, banks, corporations and companies. the debts are interrelated with one another. the structural defects of the economic system we have been experiencing and the market economy system that is distorted are basically combined with a money credit system. the defective functioning of the economy results from linking the system of creating money with credit. maurice allais compared it to a cancer which relentlessly eats away the capitalist economy. this system provides for the creation of the purchasing power with no real equivalent. serious reforms of the banking and financial systems need therefore to be implemented. the tax system needs to be reformed and the way that stock exchanges work needs to be changed as well. as regards the plan to patch up gaps in the financial crunch by means of money injections – they are apparently going on in my country too – i think one may put it where the moon does not shine.
madam president! the package of anti-crisis measures adopted by the commission and individual member states will bring the stability pact to its knees. i'm glad to announce that it's being revised, but the point is that this new pact should not soon become another fiction and another reason for some confusion. but in a situation where the stability pact is changing, should we not also look at the criteria for joining the euro area? some countries are building their hopes for currency stability on this step, fearing a repeat of what has happened recently, namely a speculative attack on their currencies. and finally, another question: namely, in a situation where this pact of aid to various branches of the company sanctions such activities, how does this severity of the european union in the approach to the problem of polish shipyards? and finally, the last thing: is it really that, when it comes to co2, there is no way to find a solution that poland will not have to import cheap electricity from ukraine and russia?
madam president, at the request of the council and responding to the expectations of parliament, the commission has prepared and revealed today a document on the eastern partnership which will be presented to the summit, as stated by minister jouyet, president-in-office. i wish to congratulate and praise the commission for this document. the idea of deepening relations with our eastern neighbours has been pioneered and championed by parliament for quite some time. we need a strong eu presence in the eastern neighbourhood, in synergy with our mediterranean neighbourhood. for the sake of stability on our doorstep, we should offer tangible prospects to our closest neighbours. therefore we should support the idea of establishing an enhanced partnership covering essentially five areas: association agreements, a multilateral framework for cooperation, a comprehensive and deep free-trade area, visa liberalisation leading to visa-free travel and, last but not least, energy security. i especially welcome the proposal to increase the eu financial assistance earmarked for the enp east. two years ago we in parliament came up with the idea of strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the european neighbourhood policy east; our proposal intends to set up a joint parliamentary assembly comprising members of the european parliament and deputies of the parliaments of the six countries. such a forum would provide an excellent platform for us in engaging our partners, but also for our partners to engage with each other. we, the union, need friends around us, but also for them to be friends among themselves. therefore i am especially glad at the idea of convening a euronest – an assembly – which, if taken up by the commission, will provide an instrument for democratic and parliamentary scrutiny of eastern partnership projects. i believe that the eastern partnership project constitutes not only a new enhanced format but also will strengthen the union both internally and externally. expanding and upgrading relations, political and economic, with our eastern neighbours will contribute to our economic dynamics and political and international influence.
madam president! one of the topics to be discussed at the next european council is the climate package. the phenomenon of carbon dioxide emissions and everything associated with the so-called global warming is becoming more and more ideological. we all care about clean air and the environment. however, scientific evidence shows that the human impact on climate change is negligible. if it's true that human activities account for only 4% of global co2 emissions, and the european union accounts for 15%, that would mean that we want to spend hundreds of billions of euros to reduce co2 emissions by less than 0.5% globally, while countries like india and china are increasing co2 emissions. it is hard to imagine that eu decision-makers are blind to these aspects. it's probably not a coincidence that some countries, like france, will be selling off co2 emission limits to others. the result of this action is predictable: resellers will take over, inter alia, polish power plants in a short time. in this context, a new definition of solidarity in europe needs to be given a new dimension.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i thank the french presidency for its successes and wish it success at the summit. at the time of its launch, france did not yet know that the global financial crisis would erupt and that it would become its most important challenge. i am very impressed with the french and european union response to the crisis. as for the next topic of the summit, climate change, i am glad that the french presidency understands, and i hope it will take into account, the difficulties of some countries in moving quickly away from coal-fired power. the fact that the world climate conference is being held in poznań shows poland's willingness to join the process of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. but we need time to change the energy economy and we count on the solidarity of the whole european union.
mr. chairman, please! since the kyoto protocol was signed, poland has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by 33%. at the same time, other countries in the european union, even though they are not primarily coal-based, have increased their emissions. therefore, the attempt to set the date from which emissions would be measured at a later date than the date of the kyoto protocol is evidence of an unfair approach to the problem. on the other hand, preventing the effects of the financial crisis by depriving 80,000 polish shipbuilders of their jobs is a very original idea. i still hope that the commission will withdraw this irrational decision in the present circumstances.
in writing. by announcing the crisis plan, the european commission responded to the real need for community action to stabilise and revitalise the economy. however, this came a few days after the so-called conciliation on the shape of the eu budget for 2009. it did not provide for additional funds to combat the crisis, and it is difficult to imagine a budget-neutral plan of around €200 billion. the long-running dispute over the funding sources for €1 billion to help countries facing famine proves that it will not be easy to get 27 countries to agree on additional funds - more than the €116 billion agreed on 21 november between the european parliament and the council for 2009. for this reason, the barroso plan is primarily a sum of national efforts, with promises of greater tolerance for budget deficits and public aid rules. however, i hope that the possible softening of the stabilisation and growth pact will not be the only consequence of the european commission's plan. this will happen if the promise of more advance payments and the streamlining of the structural funds, which should act as local and sectoral crisis packages in 2009-10, is fulfilled. this would reverse the fatal trend of the scissors being unfurled between the commitments and the actual resources of regional policy.
i am chairing this sitting, not mr cohn-bendit. we just moved to the catch-the-eye procedure. that is why you took the floor, so there are no privileges at all.
president of the council. - mr president, i would like to say that the debate was extremely important for the council. what i have learned, and many of you have pointed out, is that we are dealing with the roma, a disadvantaged group, who are very vulnerable to poverty, discrimination and racist attacks. that has been said, and unfortunately it is true, and many of you have pointed it out. as mr severin, mr cohn-bendit and mrs mohácsi have rightly said, it is clear that we must not be lulled into a false optimism and that the strategy to be implemented is extremely difficult. as you have pointed out, when working on a daily basis, it is necessary to distinguish between those who are sedentary and those who are not. it is not the same, the practices and living conditions are not the same. working every day, even when you really want to help, is a reality that is extremely difficult. we must not be too soft-spoken, we must be tenacious and continuous, and the fact, i say in the presence of mr severin, that there is a romanian origin in the council's work is also a sign and the fact that the council has taken up this subject at the instigation of your compatriots is extremely important. i think we should know that we're going to have a long-term action. we need to be clear, you were. i think the only answer is, as has been said, to put structures in place, with associations. that is what we are trying to do, but it is extremely difficult. secondly, as you have said, the european approach is indispensable, if only because there are indeed crossborder problems, not just national problems. but it must be clear - and i say this for the commission and in relation to what has been said - that we must also be clear among ourselves that the member states have a specific responsibility in this matter. we can only take legislative initiatives at european level in accordance with the powers which the union has today under the treaties. and i say to mrs angelilli and mrs járóka that we must do a lot at national level. so, to sum up, i think we have seen, this year - although you will admit that it is too long - a recognition of the phenomenon. i do not know whether we should follow what has been said and on what basis we can do so in relation to what has been said on the minority problem. the council must also continue to do so and, above all, the member states must take action and the effective measures, both at national and local level, must be stepped up because there are situations which are humanly unacceptable, but it must be recognized that the problem is really very complex on a daily basis. thank you very much for your comments.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the commission considers the situation of the roma to be an ethical and political imperative and is of course prepared to do everything in its power to contribute to a coherent approach and to strengthen the synergy of policies at both european and member state level, so that member states focus more on developing policies aimed at the inclusion of roma and not policies which often still lead to their exclusion. the commission is looking to member states to do so in a culturally sensitive way that takes account of the specific needs of roma, but also strives to give them access to the mainstream, education, the labour market and housing. however, the commission cannot pretend to be able to represent the member states in this area, which would not only be ineffective but also unfair. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we need to step up our efforts and, although we are still far from the end of the road, it is clear that the ice is starting to shift, because the first european roma forum is a change. the fact that the roma issue will be dealt with by the european union, and that the european union is dealing with it, in fact, permanently at a very high and top level, is also a change. if we can get the roma platform moving in a meaningful way, we will create a systematic basis for monitoring developments, providing incentives and coordinating policies much better. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to return to the beginning of my speech. the commission considers the situation of the roma to be an ethical and political imperative and will do everything in its power and competence.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by mrs véronique de keyser on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on the framework agreement between the european community and the state of israel on the principles for the participation of the state of israel in community programmes (05471/2008 - c6-0180/2008 - 2007/0241 ((avc)) (a6-0436/2008)), and on the statements by the council and the commission on the participation of the state of israel in community programmes.
mr. chairman, please! long-term conflict provides an opportunity to reflect and analyze the causes and causes of aggressive behavior and to seek solutions. i understand the desperate rocket launches by the palestinians, like rats cornered in a cage, but i also understand the fear of the jews for their children who may never come home from school again, because it is assumed that almost every palestinian is a terrorist. it's not a coin that's white on one side and black on the other. there are hard-line extremists on the palestinian side, as well as doves and hawks among the jews, as minister livni has said. internal divisions are not without significance in this conflict, and the greater the role of the internal divisions, the more power one side has. the jews have more power in my opinion, because they have a state - which of course they have a right to - and i support it with all the attributes of that state. it also involves greater responsibility and a commitment to take steps that are risky but that hold out hope for a peaceful future. so the israeli condition of zero rocket attacks by the palestinians to start a two-state project is like assuming that we'll have children provided they're all intelligent and eventually do a phd or a profitable business. in non-standard conditions, it takes courage to make non-standard decisions, and that is what i expect from israel, and in these decisions we, the european union, should simply help them. so, road map for two states. as for strengthening the eu-israel relationship, i think this is a good strategy, because we have more influence and in the long term we can play a constructive role in minimising this tragic conflict. i'm all for strengthening our relationship.
smes must comply with the law like any other business entity, although they generally have no chance of hiring a legal adviser or well-qualified financial services. small and medium-sized enterprises are also the largest job creators. this is why it is so important to support the sector through simplification of regulations, training and other forms of action. in times of financial crisis, facilitating access to credit is particularly important. perhaps the solidarity fund, which guarantees these loans, could help. i support the adoption of the small business charter for europe and congratulate the french presidency.
in writing. improving the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in europe and supporting the small business charter is of great importance for the development of the economy and entrepreneurship in the european union. this is all the more important as smes employ more than half of eu citizens and account for 99% of businesses across the community. unfortunately, when it comes to assessing the implementation of the small business charter, i have many reservations. for example, in poland, ambitious plans to reduce administrative burdens, simplify regulations and eliminate redundant laws have been announced. in fact, the situation in the bureaus has not changed. entrepreneurs continue to face incompetence of officials, unnecessary procedures and bureaucracy that severely limits entrepreneurship. to date, no online public service portals have been created to register companies, file tax and customs declarations or use statistical data sets. without improving procedures and reforming the offices, we will not be able to fulfil the provisions of the small business charter and, consequently, to adequately support the development of smes.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are crucial to the european economy, affecting its competitiveness and employment. by providing over 100 million jobs, smes contribute to economic growth. they are also a major source of regional development, innovation and gender equality. smes in the union continue to have lower productivity and slower growth than smes in the united states, where companies increase employment by an average of 60% in the first seven years of operation, compared to only around 10-20% in europe. the small business charter presented by the european commission in june this year sets out for the first time a comprehensive policy framework for smes, providing a level playing field and improving their legal and administrative environment in the eu. in this context, the urgent question is whether the council intends to formally endorse the charter for small enterprises and whether there will be a binding commitment by member states to comply with its principles. it is important to know what measures the council intends to take to ensure that smes have sustainable access to finance in the context of the financial market crisis.
mr. chairman, please! the principle of non-discrimination is not applied in the european parliament. the multilingualism of our parliament is not respected either. there are instances of language discrimination in committee and delegation meetings. it is particularly regrettable that access to interpretation is restricted without prior notice during hearings or votes on oral amendments. until the rules of procedure prohibit the opening of meetings without all translations being provided, these events will be repeated. the financial services also do not provide information in the languages of the members to whom it is addressed. the financial consequences of the misunderstanding are borne by the mp. intentional language discrimination also occurs in euronews. i therefore propose that euronews be financed only from the contributions of the countries in whose languages it is broadcast (...) (the president withdrew the vote)
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to appeal to the european parliament to support the initiative of patriotic circles in poland to recognize 25 may - the day of the shooting of captain pilecki - as the european day of heroes of the struggle against totalitarianism. british historian professor michael foot listed pilecki as one of the six most courageous men of the resistance movement of world war ii. witold pilecki, an officer of the polish army, who fought in the september campaign during the nazi occupation, organized, as a voluntary prisoner, a resistance movement in the german camp auschwitz. after escaping from the nazi concentration camp, he fought in the warsaw uprising and in the polish 2nd corps in italy, and upon his return to communist poland, he was arrested by the communist security office, imprisoned, where he was tortured, convicted, and shot on may 25, 1948. corporal pilecki dedicated his life to fighting the criminal dictatorships of the 20th century.
on december 27th of this year, we will be celebrating the 90th anniversary of the outbreak of the greater poland uprising. thanks to the victory of this uprising, the old polish district of wielkopolska was incorporated into the newly created poland. but the success was not for nothing. it was paid for with the blood of over 2,000 dead and 20,000 wounded. to their memory!
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to an unprecedented event that took place in july of this year in the vicinity of brody, ukraine. a monument was unveiled there to the soldiers of the nazi criminal waffen ss, the galicia division. i consider it an unprecedented scandal that in the 21st century, in an era of reconciliation between nations, a group of people with blatantly nationalist and fascist sympathies glorify a criminal formation responsible for the deaths of millions of europeans, including my countrymen who died between 1943 and 1945 as part of the planned genocide in western ukraine. i strongly believe that most ukrainians share my concern about this issue. i also believe that the ukrainian authorities cannot stand by and watch this outrageous attempt to revise history. i also appeal to the european parliament and the eu institutions (...) (the president withdrew the member's vote)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union is working to create an instrument to provide rapid assistance to poor and underdeveloped countries to ensure that their populations can survive in the event of food price increases. and by the way, we're talking about the fact that food shortages in these countries are permanent, and not just when there's a crop failure or speculative food prices are rising. so it's clear that quick response and food aid are not going to solve the problem. the education, the new production methods, the better seed and fertilizer that the fao and the world bank have been promoting in these countries for years, has not been producing the results that they were hoping for. therefore, treating the 1 billion euro as an instrument to respond quickly to the rapid rise in food prices in developing countries is inadequate to the expected results, especially with our eu way of doing things. the rapporteur, mr gay mitchell, sees and understands this perfectly well, and the rapporteurs of the committees for opinion and the committee on budgetary control do not seem to understand it.
we are all aware that the food crisis has put many people, especially those in the developing countries, the poorest of the poor, in a very difficult situation. instead of meeting the un millennium development goals, millions more people are falling into poverty. the union should not shy away from helping. i think most of us in this room would agree. supporting these countries is our moral duty, an expression of solidarity with poorer nations. we should show them the right way out of the crisis, help them to have the right amount of food, above all by supporting agricultural production in their countries. i would also like to stress that it is not only outside the union that there are people who are waiting for help. within the community too, millions of our citizens are faced with the problem of high food prices and food shortages. so i urge you, in helping others, for example in africa, not to forget those who are waiting for help here, close by. the european commission's proposal to increase the funding for the union's food distribution programme to the most deprived people in the community should therefore be supported. unfortunately, some member states are opposed to the existence of this programme.
in writing . the last two years have seen an increase in agricultural and food prices. the nations that suffer the most economically and the nations that are at war are the ones that feel the most pain. about 2.1 billion people in the world have to live on less than two dollars a day, spending about 50 percent of their income on food. they are the ones most at risk of losing their health and lives as a result of record prices for the basic food staples of rice, maize and wheat, directly affecting the number of hungry people in the world, which increased by another 50 million in 2007 alone. the crisis is further exacerbated by the negative impact of global warming and by the scarcity of natural resources such as water and energy. the aid granted, and thus the fight against this very serious problem, should invest financial resources to increase access to agricultural production and services and to improve agricultural production capacity to meet basic food needs in the least developed countries. the european union should also increase its agricultural spending, as the 4% allocated to development policy is far too low. equally important is the restoration of minimum regulation of international markets to ensure supply and at least relative price stability in the interests of all consumers and producers in the world.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the two rapporteurs, josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil and bart staes, for the constructive reports they have presented on the sensitive subject of the fight against vat fraud in the european union, particularly with regard to the first concrete commission proposal in this field. today we are at a turning point in the implementation of our strategy to combat vat fraud. the three reports which parliament is due to adopt tomorrow contain a number of recommendations on how to improve the fight against fraud and reflect your view on the first of a long series of measures. on 1 december the commission adopted a communication setting out the measures it will be presenting in the coming months and a first directive containing some of these measures. the proposals also address the concerns and recommendations expressed in mr staes' report. the measures which the commission intends to adopt can be divided into three categories: the first group includes measures to prevent vat fraud. one of these is to establish minimum standards for registration and deletion in national databases in order to improve the reliability and comparability of information contained in these databases. the procedure for obtaining electronic confirmation of operators' vat numbers and corresponding names and addresses is also to be improved to provide greater legal certainty for suppliers. the commission also proposes to simplify the rules on invoicing and to streamline the rules on the eligibility of the tax in order to ensure better enforcement, which will facilitate checks. the second category concerns measures to improve the efficiency of tax administrations in detecting vat fraud. the measure on reducing delays, which is the subject of two reports by mr josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil, falls into this category. to improve fraud detection, it is also necessary to ensure better monitoring of import vat exemptions, as proposed by the commission last monday, and to extend the range of information that member states will have to make available to the tax administrations of other member states through automated access to their databases. finally, this category also includes the creation of a european network, as you have pointed out, called eurofisc, intended to strengthen operational cooperation between the member states in the fight against vat fraud, like the eurocanet network created by the belgian tax administration and supported by the commission and the european anti-fraud office. the third category includes measures to strengthen the capacity of tax administrations to collect and recover taxes. in particular, it contains a measure specifying the cases in which the supplier and the customer of cross-border transactions are jointly and severally liable for the payment of the tax. the legislative framework governing crossborder recovery is likely to be strengthened. finally, one measure aims to establish a shared responsibility between member states for the protection of all tax revenues. the commission also notes that parliament has a constant concern for the protection of the financial interests of the european community, since vat fraud also has an impact on the own resources of the european budget. i welcome the support for the proposal for a regulation on mutual administrative assistance in the fight against fraud, and in particular against vat fraud. the commission also welcomes the request by parliament to the council to continue negotiations on this proposal which will provide a detailed framework for the commission and olaf to provide operational and intelligence support to member states in the fight against vat fraud. the positive opinion expressed by parliament in the draft report on the reduction of deadlines and the rapid progress of work on the matter in the council augur well for the more substantial proposals which the commission will adopt in the near future.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. - madam president! - what are you doing? the fight against fraud, which has so far been largely a member state responsibility, is a problem that cannot be solved at national level alone. the fight against tax evasion should be conducted in close cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states and in cooperation with the commission. the proposals for a directive and a regulation which are the subject of this draft are only partly the result of the indications given as priorities by the ecofin council in june 2007. the proposed amendments are mainly aimed at speeding up the collection and exchange of information relating to intra-community transactions by standardising procedures and reducing to one month the period covered by declarations of intra-community transactions and the deadline for the transmission of information on these transactions between member states. the harmonisation of the rules on the chargeability of services will make it possible to carry out an effective control of the information submitted. the obligation on member states to accept vat returns sent electronically will also be a significant simplification. the proposed legislative measures are only the first steps in putting the aforementioned ecofin demands into practice. a detailed assessment of the impact of the new formal obligations on service providers is still lacking and a special report on this issue, especially as regards the administrative costs borne by taxpayers and administrations and the effectiveness of the fight against tax evasion, would be appropriate. in the light of the justified criticism by the court of auditors of the lack of effective administrative cooperation in this area, the european commission should consider increasing its role, in particular in the area of developing analyses and good practice.
madam president! i wanted to look at both the report and the problem from the point of view of fraud, budgetary losses and distortions of competitiveness. the rules of fair competition are simply being broken by tax fraud. i would like to pay particular tribute to the report and to the rapporteur, mr staes, who has produced a very good report. this is one of the few reports where we do not just talk about the amounts, but we indicate by name the member states where these irregularities occur. i would also like to express my appreciation to the court of auditors for having highlighted these two main groups of reasons: firstly, the reasons on the part of the member states, which we could read as a kind of inaction on the part of the council, the inertia of the member states, which could, through actions that would seem simple - timely exchange of information, reliable exchange of information, the will to find the causes of the situation and eliminate them - contribute a great deal to solving the problem. and also the second part, which is important and has not yet been sufficiently expressed here in the commissioner's speech, namely: what can the commission, together with its subordinate agencies such as the directorate-general for taxation and the customs union, the european anti-fraud office, olaf, really do instead of the often bureaucratic translation of 'how much effort we are putting in, but no effect yet'?
in writing. in taking part in the debate on combating tax crimes, i would like to draw attention to the following points. the amount of lost revenue resulting from vat fraud in the individual member states is extremely high and is increasing year by year. for example, in 2005 these losses amounted to some eur 17 billion in germany and in the uk in the 2005/06 tax year to over eur 18 billion. despite the fact that the european union has taken many initiatives to reduce vat fraud, such as eurocanet (exchange of information on companies suspected of vat fraud, unfortunately without the participation of germany, the united kingdom and italy), and the activities of institutions such as europol, eurojust and olaf, the losses from this are clearly increasing year on year. in this context, efforts to create new intergovernmental structures should be abandoned and the role of the european commission as the central coordinator of administrative cooperation between member states in the fight against vat fraud should be strengthened. the new eurofisc mechanism, which is to be a new decentralised network in which member states are to participate on a voluntary basis, is therefore at least debatable.
in writing . the report on combating tax evasion in intra-community transactions is a very important piece of legislation. tax fraud undermines the principle of fair and transparent taxation and simply undermines the basis on which the communities operate. the lower revenues to the union budget mean that we are not able to fully implement policies. the fight against tax fraud is largely a competence of the member states, but they should not act alone. there is a clear need to coordinate cooperation at community level and to strengthen cooperation between member states' administrations and the european commission. given that a major vat reform is a long-term but also very time-consuming action, the report under review decided that conventional measures should be taken. these concern changes in legislation on the liability of taxpayers for failure to submit or incorrect submission of required documents on time, shortening the deadline for obtaining data and rapidly correcting inaccurate data, and speeding up the exchange of information relating to intra-community transactions.
mr. chairman, please! the attempt by the european union to adopt such a development strategy and to impose on the world that a drastic reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from human activities will have a significant impact on cyclical climate change is the greatest utopia of our time. i'll give you a couple of figures that will show the absurdity of this assumption. well, the international energy agency says that a 50% reduction in carbon emissions will cost the world about 45 trillion dollars by 2050, and that money will achieve a temperature reduction of, quote, 0.02 degrees, which is below statistical error, which can have no effect on the cyclical course of climate change. at the same time, it will lead to a sharp decline in the development of human civilization.
mr. chairman, please! we've said almost everything we need to say about climate change and energy. we know that climate change is happening, but we also know that much more warming has already been recorded in the past. we also know that carbon dioxide emissions in nature are largely unrelated to human activities. humans account for only about 4% of carbon dioxide emissions. the main source of co2 is the ocean, which has 50 times more carbon dioxide than the atmosphere. the carbon dioxide emissions of the individual countries are not uniform. a lot of it comes from developing countries like china and india. without reducing emissions in these countries, europe alone cannot solve the problem. nor will restrictions on countries that emit a lot of carbon solve the problem. economies like poland will continue to rely on coal and biofuels for a long time to come. these resources will be the main driving force of their economy. the expected 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 on the proposed rules breaks down these economies. the aim of reducing co2 emissions by up to 80% by 2050 would lead to a collapse of the energy economy not only in poland but also in many other countries and would certainly lead to a total economic disaster. there is therefore a need to deepen the analysis and take protective measures. the bilateral talks between russia and germany, excluding other member states, are certainly not conducive to solving this problem. we need to talk about this together and come to a common solution. i hope that the meeting in poznań and later in copenhagen in 2009 will lead to an agreement and a solution to the problem for the benefit of all.
mr. chairman, please! forcing the european union countries, which produce only 15% of the world's carbon emissions, to adopt the drastic solutions contained in the energy and climate package is a destructive act not only for poland, but for europe and the world. while the countries of the old union reduced their carbon dioxide emissions by about 3%, poland's emissions were reduced by about 30% as a result of industrial destruction and modernisation activities. yet the european union wants further reductions, which is supposed to be a realization of solidarity and burden sharing, and which will surely cause our industry to collapse and enormously increase costs. we are also against the recently imposed ccs directive, which will prevent the use of geothermal energy and the achievement of the 20% renewable energy share in poland. but it could be the cause of an ecological disaster instead of environmental protection. the release of carbon dioxide from the earth's crust can cause the death of living things and tectonic movements and earthquakes.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about energy and the environment today. the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on climate change is real, although other factors are currently underestimated. i would like to emphasize that action on this matter must be taken globally. because what will be the effect of our radical reductions in emissions if other countries do not? it is simply that european products will become uncompetitive and our markets will be taken over by others who will not introduce such restrictions. it is also necessary to take into account the situation of countries such as poland, whose energy is substantially based on coal. it is noteworthy that these countries have made tremendous progress in reducing their carbon emissions in recent years. the energy and climate package must therefore be prudent, yet supportive and innovative, pro-economic and pro-environmental, secure and forward-looking. this is especially important now that we are experiencing a severe economic downturn.
mr. chairman, please! under the guise of high environmental goals, the richest countries and corporations are pushing a climate package that is hitting the less wealthy countries of the european union. in the face of the global crisis, the mining and energy sectors (including poland) are being attacked at the cost of slowing economic growth and mass redundancies. i am also in favour of reducing co2 emissions in europe and worldwide, but not at any cost. you can't shut down coal plants or mines overnight. it is not too late to work out a wise compromise that will be acceptable to all countries. however, this is only possible if the specificities of national economies are taken into account. otherwise, we're dealing with dictatorship and injustice, and that's not something we should be consenting to.
mr. chairman, please! the problem of climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity. the european union has set out an ambitious plan to reduce carbon emissions by 20% by 2020, improve energy efficiency and increase the share of renewable energy. these intentions show that the union wants to be a world leader in the fight against climate change, but the european union is not an island and cannot act alone. if we don't convince our partners around the world to make equally ambitious adjustments, then despite our best efforts, we may not be able to tackle this problem. the proposed changes should be designed in the most effective way to minimise the costs to the economy, which will be huge anyway, and thus reduce the burden on citizens. in assessing the commission's proposal in this context, i would point out two dangers. first, the need for electricity generating plants to buy emission allowances through auctions will cause a significant increase in energy prices, especially in countries with a high share of coal in energy production. this will have a negative impact on the material situation of households and on the competitiveness of enterprises in these countries. this problem can be partially solved by introducing a benchmarking method. this method gives a premium to the most efficient solutions in its fuel category, thereby achieving the intended reduction target at a significantly lower cost. secondly, the currently proposed allocation system strongly favours industries exposed to carbon leakage at the expense of energy and heating. in effect, it gives the wealthier countries a privileged position, which does not seem to be a fair solution. the allocation system must be designed so that the less prosperous countries do not lose out to the others. the fairest solution seems to be one that divides the auction revenues by gross domestic product. i call on the commission and the council to find a sensible compromise so that the pursuit of these objectives does not lead to the undermining of the competitiveness of our economies and the deterioration of the living conditions of our societies.
mr. chairman, please! the main driver of climate change is the emission of heat from the sun, which provides about 96% of the planet's heat. excessive co2 and methane emissions have a negative impact on the environment and should therefore be reduced. the way out of the impasse is to take radical technical and organisational measures to accelerate the development of renewable energy production, to increase the production of clean electricity, to accelerate all measures to increase energy efficiency and savings. this certainly requires restructuring of expenditure and the mobility of funds for these purposes, but all these actions cannot result in a radical increase in electricity prices. this is something that neither european society nor european industry can accept. therefore, the package in the current entry requires radical refinement.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to congratulate the french presidency on taking the energy and climate package seriously. first of all, i would like to thank the presidency for having heard some of the comments which have been made many times in the european parliament but which have not been taken seriously enough. fellow workers! the european union has been through its worst. it's just that this is a difficult time for me, too. but the most important thing is to listen to each other and be open to contrary arguments. we never lacked that. i wanted to reassure my colleague claude turmes. as far as my country is concerned, there is a full readiness to adopt the package as soon as possible, and the amendments submitted are well known to us in parliament and in no way threaten the main objective of the package in no way which is to reduce emissions. so we need the climate package urgently, and as soon as possible. no one knows that better than poland. we are responsible for negotiating the climate convention and we know that without such a package we will not make any progress in the global negotiations. it is a package that achieves all the objectives set, i repeat, all the objectives for 2020, but which is easier for our european economy to accept. only such a package can also be a model for others, and that is the package we want. and only a strong and resilient economy can be able to invest in climate protection. if we weaken the economy, how will we get the resources to fight global warming? that's why this discussion is so important, and that's why it's important to listen to each other's arguments.
in writing. tax fraud undermines the principle of fair and transparent taxation and simply undermines the basis on which the communities operate. the lower revenues to the union budget mean that we are not able to fully implement policies. the fight against tax fraud is largely a competence of the member states, but they should not act alone. there is a clear need to coordinate cooperation at community level and to strengthen cooperation between member states' administrations and the european commission. given that a major vat reform is a long-term but also very time-consuming action, the report considered that conventional measures should be taken. these concern changes in legislation on the liability of taxpayers for failure to submit or incorrect submission of required documents on time, shortening the deadline for obtaining data and rapidly correcting inaccurate data, and speeding up the exchange of information relating to intra-community transactions.
in writing. − the world's economies are becoming more interconnected, international trade is growing very fast, and foreign direct investment is increasing. i therefore fully support the report by david martin recommending the acceptance of the eu-republic of korea agreement on anti-competitive practices. this agreement is well in line with previous eu action in this area and complements agreements already signed by the eu in the early 1990s with the united states (1991), canada (1999) and japan (2003). the agreement with korea is intended to contribute to the effective implementation of competition rules by promoting cooperation between competition authorities and reducing the likelihood of conflicts. the commission will also be required to provide information on the implementation of the competition rules by the competition authorities, which may affect the significant interests of the other party. it is good that there is an obligation to provide mutual assistance, coordination of implementation activities, exchange of information and a guarantee of confidentiality. korea is the eu's fourth largest non-european trading partner and the eu is the largest foreign investor in korea. given the growing importance of the partnership between the two countries, the addition of korea to the remaining three partners with whom the ec has cooperation agreements on anti-competitive activities seems fully justified.
in writing. - mrs grabowska's report sets out the facilitation of the maintenance system at eu level and that is why i supported it. in poland, many women are raising children alone, while fathers of their children often stay and work in other eu countries, often avoiding paying child support. it's practically impossible to get money in this situation. deeper cooperation between eu member states in this area will help creditors to recover their debts more quickly.
in writing. − the subject of the report on jurisdiction, jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations is the analysis and evaluation of the revised version of the regulation on the same subject. the main objective of the regulation is to simplify the rules on the establishment of maintenance claims (essential for effective recovery) and to organise a smooth cooperation between eu member states in this area. i fully support the report presented. it is a compromise between the european commission's proposals and the expectations of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the rapid adoption of the legislation before the end of 2008 will mean that citizens can benefit from it quickly, which is a priority in this case.
in writing. - i voted to accept the gay mitchell report. the european union should be able to respond quickly to food crises. the global economic crisis has shown how fragile the economic situation in rich countries can be. we should remember that poor and developing countries are exposed to much greater problems. one is that the number of people at risk of hunger is growing very rapidly. in the dramatic situations of famine, we should not waste precious time on the financial procedures. i am convinced that the new instrument will allow us to do what is one of our fundamental responsibilities - to save lives effectively.
in writing. - the improvement of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in europe and the support for the small business charter are of great importance for the smooth development of the economy and entrepreneurship in the european union, which is why i decided to support the resolution in question. the administrative facilitation of business creation, the simplification of regulations and the elimination of unnecessary laws have accelerated the process of setting up small and medium-sized enterprises, which provide employment for millions of people.
in writing. - i support the creation of a small business charter to improve the situation of small businesses in the eu. smes are known to play a vital role in the european economy, providing some 100 million jobs and representing a major source of income for member states and regions. many of these companies are also active in innovation. in this context, it should be recognised that the numerous obstacles that smes still encounter are unjustified. it should also be borne in mind that such firms are very sensitive to the intensity of competition and to any financial and administrative problems. simple and clear legal provisions are also essential for their proper functioning. the european parliament, with its legislative instruments, can respond to these needs and help to remove the remaining barriers. it is very important, especially in times of economic downturn, to ensure access to sources of finance. i welcome the proposal by the european investment bank for a new package of €30 billion for loans to smes. however, the possibility of increasing this aid should be considered, as the collapse of a large number of small enterprises would be dramatic for many people. i am confident that in this situation the council will endorse the charter for small enterprises and commit the member states to implementing the principles contained therein.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of a resolution on measures to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. the small business charter will contribute to the development of both the polish and the european economy as a whole. today, more than 100 million jobs in europe are in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. they're the engine of economies. i believe that, especially today, in times of economic crisis, the resolution underlines the need to support the implementation of the provisions of the charter. the rescue of the financial situation in the union will not be achieved by simply helping large financial institutions. in particular, concrete measures to support smes are needed to enable them to deal with market failures and to facilitate their business activities. of course, the small business act does not solve their problems. however, it lays down principles guaranteeing a level playing field for smes and introduces the first framework for a policy towards enterprises.
in writing. - i supported zita gurmai's report on the situation of women in the balkans because it raises important issues which unfortunately are not unique to the region and are not an isolated case. the most urgent issue to be addressed is the wave of crimes against women. domestic violence, sexual abuse, and especially trafficking in women and children are now commonplace.
in writing. - women in the balkans have suffered a lot in recent years. they survived the war and lost loved ones. many were maimed physically and mentally. after the war, new threats emerged that we had to fight: human trafficking, prostitution, pornography. the difficult situation in the balkan countries has meant that women, although they represent more than half of the population in those societies, continue to bear the enormous costs of the crisis. their wages, except in slovenia, are much lower than men's. women have also suffered from budget cuts, mainly in reduced subsidies for health and family care. the european community should support these countries. to give their women a chance to live a life of dignity, in accordance with the traditions, culture and religion of those countries.
mr. chairman, please! on december 10, we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the adoption by the united nations of the universal declaration of human rights. article 2 of the charter states that every human being has all rights and freedoms regardless of any differences in race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion, etc. india, which owes so much to mahatma gandhi, the great champion of individual rights, also signed the declaration. yet, we continue to hear horrifying reports of the persecution of christians in india, including brutal murders, assaults, rapes, and the burning of houses and temples, especially in the state of orissa. mr. chairman, please! just as we were not indifferent to the crime of the terrorists in bombay, so let us not be indifferent to the pogroms of christians. let's stop this hate speech, which is a clear violation of basic human rights: the right to freedom of religion, the right to life.
mr. chairman, please! public opinion in poland and canada was shaken last year by the tragic death of polish citizen robert dziekoński at vancouver airport. the accidental video shows that the death was the result of a brutal action by canadian police officers who unnecessarily used an electric shock to a man who was extremely exhausted and in need of help. we were surprised to receive the latest news that the canadian court has decided that the police will not be held accountable for their actions. on my own behalf, and on behalf of my colleague, mr janusz wojciechowski, and in the opinion of many people in poland and canada, i ask the president to ask the canadian authorities to clarify the matter of the death of a polish citizen who is also a citizen of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in the old courts, there was a clown and a clown. their duty and privilege was to entertain the ruler, even if they offended the assembled. but the fool was whipped when the ruler started serious talks. i ask mr pöttering: does the president intend to reinstate this old practice in the european parliament, albeit with a slight modification? can politicians who were once painted red and now play the role of clowns in green insult the heads of state in the name of parliament, in the presence of the president, as happened in the czech republic with president klaus? instead of being an example and a model of understanding democracy, respect for the law and the leaders of the eu countries, will we, the members of parliament, be represented by those who once set democracy on fire and now dismiss it as nothing? and no one will take their voices or pay attention to them. this can't be happening. i call on president klaus to apologize for the events that took place in prague during the visit of the parliament's delegation.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of a european history house was put forward a few months ago at a meeting of the committee on culture and education. no document was presented at that time. there was no time to discuss it. however, meps expressed doubts about the concept. today, as i hold in my hands the conceptual foundations of the house of european history, i am overwhelmed by the quality of this work. historical errors, such as the dating of the beginnings of christianity to the fourth century c.e., the disproportionate importance of events recorded and omitted, especially during world war ii and during the last twenty years, give the impression of a deliberate falsification of european history. such a dubious undertaking should not be endorsed or financed by the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to a rather extraordinary situation that took place in my country, poland. in the context of the european parliament, and especially the european parliament elections, polish law states unequivocally that any changes to the electoral law must be notified six months before the elections. meanwhile, the polish government was late in introducing changes to the electoral law for the european parliament, which, among other things, reduced the number of meps from poland. this may mean that the new electoral ordinance, which provides for a reduction in the number of polish meps, may be challenged by the constitutional court. this could mean calling into question the legality of the european parliament elections in my country, poland. this is an unlikely situation, unprecedented in the history of the european parliament, and unfortunately the polish government is to blame.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of dividing work time into active and passive is a dangerous and unfair idea. time spent at the workplace and used in whole or in part to carry out the employer's instructions cannot be treated as rest time in the part in which the employer does not recommend the performance of specific tasks. during this time, the employee cannot be with his family, he cannot arrange his own vacation according to his own preferences. he should be paid the same amount for that time. the second issue is the possibility of extending the shifts without adequate remuneration, allegedly with the consent of the employee. this is especially true of doctors. name a patient, preferably a member of the council, who would willingly consent to a surgery performed by a doctor in the 23rd hour of his shift. this is not only a violation of the doctor's labor rights, but also a violation of the patient's rights. hospitals in poland refused to hire doctors who refused to sign an opt-out clause. i remind you that the eight-hour workday was fought before world war ii.
mr. chairman, please! the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emea) and that the commission should be given the task of developing a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emea) to ensure that the european agency for medicinal products for human use (emea) is fully operational. our committee has had ample time to reflect on its opinion and i hope that the result of our vote in the committee will be reflected in the plenary vote the day after tomorrow. and we voted with respect for the social achievements of europe, which the old member states share with the new ones, by setting an example and supporting us. the compromise reached at council level in june is unacceptable. among my constituents, especially among doctors in poland, there is a concern about the work of the parliament, rightly demanding that all working time, not just active duty time, be compensated. while the council's compromise talks about possible flexibility to be achieved at the level of the social partners and collective agreements, workers in poland do not feel able to negotiate with employers and need strong support from the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i have no doubt that the welfare of workers, and in particular the safety of their work, is of paramount importance to all members who are taking part in this debate. we are therefore aware that the current working time directive requires some amendments. the question is, in what direction and what kind? it is not an easy task and has been the subject of debate for several years, both in parliament and then in the council. finally, the council reached a reasonable compromise. it is difficult today - and i say this to colleagues who are calling for a hardline position on opt-outs - to expect governments of countries, most of which have adopted the opt-out principle, to back down from that principle, especially in the face of the economic crisis. so, ladies and gentlemen, in my country, we have a wise saying: "the best is the enemy of the good". we have a good compromise and let us accept that compromise for the sake of the workers of europe.
mr. chairman, please! the directive introducing european works councils was, at the time of its adoption, a major step forward in the creation of social dialogue in the economy. it also facilitated productivity gains while maintaining social peace. today, after several years of experience, the social partners see the need to change and clarify it. the role of works council members in the process of informing and consulting the workforce needs to be clarified. especially in times of crisis, good faith communication between management and labour and negotiations based on reliable information are of great value. the importance of social dialogue, the finding of solutions through debate and negotiation, and the recognition of the good and interests of the other side indicate the need to respect the results of this dialogue and to accept the agreement between employers' organisations and trade unions at european level. i congratulate the rapporteur and look forward to reviewing the effects of this directive in the years ahead.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we all care about the safety of our children when we have toys on the market. i fully agree that parents who buy a toy must be sure that the product does not pose a health risk to their child. however, i believe that the imposition of additional certification requirements by a third party completely independent of the manufacturer will not substantially increase the safety guarantees of the toys produced, but will certainly significantly increase the costs of their production, which will have a negative impact on the toy industry in many member states. for example, in poland many companies produce very high-quality plastic and wooden toys. the vast majority of these companies are small and medium-sized enterprises with up to 10 employees. more stringent rules would significantly increase the price of toys with such certificates, eliminate many small and medium-sized enterprises and subsequently thousands of jobs. the requirement to have an independent product evaluation did not guarantee that our children would play with much safer products, because consumers would eventually choose cheaper products. i therefore believe that the compromise negotiated with the council is a good one and deserves our support in the form presented to us by the rapporteur.
in writing. our debate today has a special resonance in the face of the upcoming christmas season, when in the heat of shopping we do not always think about the safety of toys bought for the youngest. unfortunately, toys that are not entirely safe for our children are still available on the european market. the amendments proposed in the directive are intended to change this situation, namely to increase the safety of toys placed on the market and, above all, to eliminate unnecessary risks that toys may pose to children playing with them. i welcome in particular the negotiated provisions on chemicals and the transition period. the directive significantly raises the standards compared to the current situation, especially as regards the content of chemicals in toys, both cmrs, odour substances and allergens. i believe that the agreement reached by the rapporteur on this matter is optimal. this is because it ensures that the toys that children will be using are completely safe. moreover, the directive does not create excessive barriers and costs, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, which constitute the vast majority of the toy industry and which have repeatedly stressed during the debate with us the difficulties that their enterprises may have due, inter alia, to the short period of time allowed to adapt to the new requirements. this period was extended to allow them to make the necessary changes.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on simplifying the transfer of defence-related products within the community is the document that is needed. i would like to thank mrs heide rühle for her great contribution to its development. the directive facilitates the operation of the common market and increases its competitiveness, without limiting the rules resulting from the specific characteristics of each country. it safeguards the international commitments of states and the european union regarding trade in defence-related products. the adopted rules may impede the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises due to formal requirements, which should be taken into account when reviewing their implementation. in view of the high level of technical progress and the adoption of new commitments, for example in the field of anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions, it is necessary to update the eu arms list as far as possible. the amendments proposed are justified. they shall be such that the entry is not repeated. we support this directive.
mr. chairman, please! i do not agree with the position taken by mr van orden. well, why? we are talking about regulation of a particular sector of the economy, we are talking about harmonization, we are talking about simplification of procedures, we are talking about consistent rules for companies, and also rules of conduct on external markets. it is therefore an important area also from the point of view of the economy of individual member states, and giving a great deal of latitude to the member states is precisely the opportunity to exploit these potential opportunities. this is also important because of our position on international markets. i would also like to point out that we, as the european parliament and the european union, are not insensitive to the general situation in the world and in particular regions of the world, including the issues of peace and armaments.
the commission's vice-president. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to make two brief remarks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european arms control agency, the establishment of a european arms control agency, and the establishment of a european arms control agency. they could only be regulated if we had not just a common but a common foreign, security and defence policy in the european union - which we do not have. that is why we must limit ourselves to what we can do, and that is my second point. as long as we in the member states of the european union consider that armed forces are necessary, as long as we believe that we can only maintain our security by maintaining armed forces, or let us say armed forces, the taxpayer in europe has a right to the most efficient use of his money. the european arms market is simply not efficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you ask yourself why the european defence budget, taken together, is almost 40% of the american defence budget, but the efficiency of the european armed forces, their capability, is not even 10% of the american one, then you see where the problem lies. the problem is that we have this completely unnecessarily complex and expensive system of licensing the internal european arms market. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. just by doing it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must draw attention to the need to increase the efficiency of the european arms market, that is to say, to increase the efficiency of our defence and our security - that is what this is really about - and to reduce our dependence on arms from outside europe. the directive has a parallel directive, namely the directive on the procurement of defence products, which is still before parliament for its opinion. the commission has deliberately presented these two things as a package. it is only after the adoption of the second part that both measures will be fully effective. i therefore ask you to approve not only this draft but also the draft on the procurement of european armaments which is still to be discussed.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 december 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i would like to express my support for the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the simplification of the conditions for the transfer of defence-related products within the community (com (2007) 0765). it should be noted that eu member states have consistently excluded the transfer of defence-related products from the european integration process, based on different national regulations. this has resulted in the closure of defence markets, which has had a negative impact on all eu members. the deepening of integration and reform in the arms production sector also increases the effectiveness of the european security and defence policy. the provisions of the directive on simplifying the conditions for transfers of defence-related products will have a positive impact on increasing the transparency of procedures by introducing uniform and simpler rules for transfers of defence-related products within the community. this means greater security and predictability of supply, increased competitiveness of the european defence industry and increased trust between eu member states. a credible policy requires the means to implement it, and from a financial and operational point of view, consolidating the rules on transfers of defence products by simplifying the conditions and procedures for granting authorisations is desirable. the draft directive i support, which harmonises national rules in this area, is a good step towards opening up member states' markets, strengthening the eu's trade relations with third countries and enabling smes to cooperate on the internal market.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr matthias groote on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with regard to emissions from heavy duty vehicles (euro 6) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information (com (2007) 0851 - c6-0007/2008 - 2007/0295 (cod)) (a6-0329/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the groote report on the european parliament and council regulation on type-approval of motor vehicles with a view to reducing pollution from heavy goods vehicles is of great importance for the protection of the environment and the health of citizens. it commits to bring emissions to a level close to euro 6 for vehicles and engines already in service. this requires the availability of technical information, the adjustment of the engine equipment by service stations. these stations should be equipped with the appropriate equipment to assess the vehicle's functioning during its operation. the implementation of the regulation requires an independent control system which will require vehicles to be adapted to the adopted requirements. creating a system requires time and resources, which will be difficult to obtain in the current crisis. i think the amendments to the commission proposal are appropriate. i thank the rapporteur for the great amount of work involved in its preparation. we support the report.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the regulation on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with regard to the emission of pollutants from vehicles aims to establish uniform principles for the construction of motor vehicles ensuring a high level of environmental protection. the proposed eu standards will simply eliminate small and medium-sized engine manufacturers from the european market. in addition, new engines are to be powered by alternative fuels and manufacturers must bring all new vehicles sold, registered or placed on the market and all new emission control devices into line with the standards. large corporations and large carriers will be able to afford such research and organizational ventures. from 1 october 2014, for new vehicles which do not comply with this regulation, national authorities shall consider certificates of conformity to be invalid. in poland, companies such as andoria, which manufacture engines and haulers, will most likely be eliminated. union law acting in the same way in the interests of all member states becomes a sham. the elimination of the poorer and weaker players will of course be in favour of the huge, especially german corporations. it is already clear that most of the documents in the whole climate and energy package can ensure coherence and economic development in the spirit of sustainable development by large and rich countries and corporations. however, according to polish scientists, the package will cost at least pln 500 billion, which will lead to an economic collapse and a huge increase in food costs and prices due to the need to replace the transport fleet, impoverishing the population.
mr. chairman, please! in this parliament we are passing another regulation which essentially closes the cycle of regulations on transport and means of transport in terms of their impact on the environment and air quality. it's a big job, and we're kind of completing it with this document. we can say very clearly: europe takes the protection of the environment and nature seriously, and europe will pay a price for this. it is certainly a major economic effort, but perhaps not exactly as my esteemed speaker said. this is certainly a major economic effort for vehicle owners, especially now that the entire transportation sector is in a dramatic financial condition. they may reduce their purchases, but this may mean that producers will have to reduce their demand. so in order for our directive to achieve its objective, to make sense, which is to enable the new generation of cars to be bought and sold, financial incentives will be needed. and i consider that a very important part of this document.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 december 2008.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional development by mr stavros arnaoutakis on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund as regards certain revenue-generating projects (13874/2008 - c6-0387/2008 - 2008/0186 ((avc)) (a6-0477/2008).
member of the commission. on 15 november, the commission adopted a proposal to revise article 55 of the general regulation on the structural funds, which concerns the conditions for taking account of revenue-generating projects in the context of the cohesion policy programme. the change was purely to simplify administrative procedures. the first practical operations carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 55 revealed serious difficulties in terms of effective implementation. these difficulties, reported by the member states, have revealed a lack of proportionality in the application of the procedures for setting the maximum eligible amount, known as the 'funding gap', and in the monitoring of the project. the aim of the amendment of the regulation in question is to exclude from the application of article 55 all operations co-financed by the european social fund, as well as small-scale projects requiring a total cost of less than eur 1 million co-financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund. the choice of the eur 1 million limit is based on preliminary studies carried out in order to preserve the general nature of article 55. we hope that this simplification, which is a kind of de minimis clause, will enable us to speed up the application of funds to member states and their regions, in particular for the most innovative operations in areas such as research, the promotion of renewable energy sources, etc. it was nevertheless important to avoid legal uncertainty that would have prolonged the admission procedure disproportionately. such uncertainty could have led project managers to suspend the implementation of operational programmes, which had to be avoided at all costs. in view of this, the commission decided to propose only one amendment of a technical nature. this choice was a success, as thanks to the work of the council and the parliamentary committees on regional development and employment, we were able to complete the review process in just 3 months. on behalf of the commission, may i sincerely thank your rapporteur, mr arnaoutakis. i hope that, thanks to our fruitful cooperation, the european parliament will give its consent to allow the review to be completed by the end of the year and to allow the managing authorities to continue their work, which is the strength of this simplification. the article 55 review also demonstrated the quality of the work carried out in cooperation between the regional policy dg and the employment dg, which is a benefit to cohesion policy. this cooperation never wavered. this is demonstrated by the fact that, as part of the european economic recovery plan, commissioner hübner and i have joined forces to propose three new substantial amendments to the structural funds regulation, which you will also be discussing.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the regulation is very short and concise, but it is very important. this meaning is related to the context in which the change takes place. first, by making this change, the european institutions show that they are able to respond flexibly to the difficulties encountered in implementing a particular policy. the willingness to make the action easier and simpler for the beneficiaries indicates that the european commission, followed by the european parliament and the council, are indeed prepared to adapt the rules to the real conditions. secondly, the importance of this regulation also lies in the fact that we are dealing with an amendment of the regulation during the programming period. this is extremely important because this is not the last change and the way the debate on the regulation change will be conducted will be very important from the point of view of preparing the crisis-related corrective package. thirdly, the european commission has been criticised on many occasions for its control of expenditure, and the court of auditors' criticism was essentially that the procedures were too complex. today's regulation shows that bold and decisive action is needed to improve efficiency and to show that european money can be spent quickly, efficiently and effectively.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. although the european parliament resolution under discussion today is essentially formal, technical, it touches on important issues relating to the use of eu aid. the proposed regulation concerns article 55 of the council regulation laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund. the current fifth paragraph, which refers to eur 200 000 as the maximum cost of the monitoring procedure, is replaced by a provision stating that the rules on revenue-generating projects will only apply to those operations which are financed by the european regional development fund or the cohesion fund, provided that their cost does not exceed eur 1 million. so i ask you: is this amount enough, or is it too high, or is it too low? i am convinced that this will avoid unnecessary bureaucratic red tape for a large group of smaller operations. this should make the management of projects, which often involve local and regional authorities, and which concern environmental protection, innovation, energy, etc., more operational. for example, in poland we have over 100 different types of institutions managing the implementation of eu funds. the efficiency of their work depends on the speed with which they are able to use the aid. i also hope that this initiative will lead to further simplifications, as the commissioner has been kind enough to mention. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to thank you for your creative approach to legislation that allows the most rational use of eu funds.
mr. chairman, please! in the debate on the amendment of the council regulations relating to the structural funds, i would like to draw attention to four points. first, the legal rules governing the use of funds from the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund or the european social fund are often so complex that they discourage the use of these funds or make it difficult to implement projects and to settle them. secondly, it is therefore a good thing that the european commission has proposed to amend article 55 of the regulation, by excluding from the scope of that article, inter alia, projects financed by the european social fund which are likely to generate income. this change should facilitate activities such as social inclusion projects and care services. thirdly, the application of article 5 of the regulation to small projects co-financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund has also been restricted as regards the calculation of the maximum amount of eligible expenditure and the monitoring of these projects. moreover, all these changes are to apply retroactively from 1 august 2006. fourthly, all these proposals are positive examples of how the rules on the structural funds can be simplified effectively in order to make them more efficient, which i believe is in the interest of both the beneficiaries and all the citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! for small projects co-financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund and for operations co-financed by the european social fund, the monitoring mechanisms in place, under which revenues may be taken into account even after three years from the closure of the operational programme, are clearly too much of an administrative burden, disproportionate to the amounts involved and a significant risk factor for the implementation of those programmes. the commission therefore rightly considers that it is important and necessary to adopt amendments to article 55 (5) of regulation no 1083/2006. the aim of these amendments is to simplify effectively the existing rules on the structural funds in the interest and for the benefit of citizens in important areas such as the environment, social inclusion, research, competitiveness and energy. i want to say that today, in the midst of the economic and financial crisis, great efforts are being made in poland to ensure that the structural funds are used as quickly as possible, that the amounts are paid out as quickly as possible. this is one of the opportunities, especially for the new member states, to counter the economic crisis. the structural funds must be used quickly and efficiently.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 december 2008.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr madeira on behalf of the committee on regional development on the impact of tourism in coastal regions on regional development (2008/2132 (ini)) (a6-0442/2008).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs madeira, for her report and congratulate her on the quality and the importance of her work: the maritime regions are indeed of great importance to the eu, since they are the focus of a significant proportion of economic activity. in addition, the report advocates an integrated approach to coastal tourism, covering issues such as the marine and coastal environment, maritime transport, employment in coastal areas, support for smes and support for fisheries. this confirms the need for a strong, integrated maritime policy for the european union, which the european commission has been working on since 2005 and which emphasises the links between regional policy, territorial cohesion and maritime policy. to give concrete shape to this policy, the european commission adopted an integrated maritime policy action plan in october 2007 which is being implemented in stages. some of the actions currently being taken by the commission respond directly to the problems and requirements expressed in the report, in particular: (1) a database of projects supported by the various community funds will be established by autumn 2009 on the basis of the requirements for full transparency of funding in coastal regions. in this context, i would like to point out that the quality and completeness of this database will depend on the willingness of the regions to provide information; (2) strengthening interregional cooperation in coastal tourism. the interreg ivc programme allows the creation of networks of regions in relation to 30 priority themes, two of which are related to maritime affairs, including tourism. for your information, the second call for proposals under the ivc programme is open until mid-january 2009. i invite the coastal regions to submit networking projects aimed at ensuring the transfer and application of best practice within the coastal regions. i am pleased to note that the report also clearly recognises the positive impact of eu cohesion policy on the development of coastal regions. indeed, the 2007-2013 programming period offers many opportunities for these regions and provides a framework for european technical and financial support for their development plans. cohesion policy, as currently defined, allows coastal regions to invest in the development of their coastal areas and islands by prioritising investments in ports, maritime research, energy from coastal sources, maritime heritage and, of course, in coastal tourism. in particular, outside the peak season, tourism can help to compensate for local weakening in fishing, agriculture, heavy industry and transport however, i would like to point out that it is up to the coastal regions to choose the best projects to improve the competitiveness of their economies and to promote sustainable tourism at local level. let me remind you that the commission is taking very concrete steps to reduce the seasonality of tourism activities, such as the 'european destinations of the highest quality' (eden) pilot project. one of the objectives of this initiative is to help balance the flows of tourists and to orient them towards non-traditional destinations in order to support all european countries and regions. in conclusion, let me thank the rapporteur again for the good work she has done in the report and remind her that tourism has a positive impact on coastal regions when it is properly controlled from the point of view of sustainability. in this context, i am pleased to inform you that, following the interest expressed in the report by ms madeira, the commission could organise a discussion with stakeholders in coastal tourism in the context of the european maritime day conference to be held on 19 and 20 may 2009. i take this opportunity to invite members of the european parliament to participate in the decentralised activities linked to maritime day 2009, which the commission fully supports.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 december 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by christa prets, drawn up on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on media literacy in the digital world (2008/2129 (ini)) (a6-0461/2008).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission very much welcomes the european parliament's report on media competence in the digital world. let me first of all congratulate the rapporteur, mrs prets, and the committee on culture and education on their work. the european commission considers media education to be an important element of active citizen participation in today's innovation and information society. a higher level of media education can make a significant contribution to achieving the lisbon objectives. the council also agrees with this. it expressed this at the audiovisual council on 21 may 2008 when it adopted conclusions on digital competence. the parliament's report rightly emphasises the importance of media education in mobilising and democratically participating citizens, but also in promoting intercultural dialogue and in the field of consumer protection. the commission agrees with parliament that media education applies to all media, including television, film, radio, recorded music, print media, the internet and all new digital communication technologies. media literacy is a fundamental skill that younger generations, but also their parents, teachers, media professionals and older people need to acquire. in 2009, the commission will continue to promote the exchange of good practice, building on, among other things, existing activities such as media 2007, the media international preparatory action and the broadcasting activities directive, the avms directive. in particular, and in connection with the reporting obligations introduced by the avms directive, a study was launched to develop criteria for evaluating the different levels of media education. the member states will be kept informed of the status of this study tomorrow at the meeting of the avms contact committee. the final report will be published in july 2009. finally, i welcome the recognition by the commission and parliament of the need to adopt a recommendation on media education in 2009.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 december 2008.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report drawn up by mr busuttil on behalf of the committee on petitions on fraudulent companies offering entries in business directories (petitions 0045/2006, 1476/2006, 0079/2003, 0819/2003, 1010/2005, 0052/2007, 0306/2007, 0444/2007, 0562/2007 and others) (2008/2126 (ini)) (a6-0446/2008).
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission welcomes the efforts made by the european parliament to draw up this report and will actively examine its conclusions. i would like to point out, as the report itself clearly states, that as far as the problem in question concerns business-to-business relations, much of the community legislation on consumer protection, including directive 2005/29 on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices and regulation (ec) 2006/2004 on consumer protection cooperation, does not apply. however, some form of protection is offered by directive 2006/114/ec in respect of misleading and comparative advertising. under these directives, it is the responsibility of the public enforcement authorities and/or the competent courts of the member state from which the companies operate to decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether a commercial communication is misleading and to take appropriate enforcement measures. i would also like to point out that several competent authorities and courts in spain and belgium, for example, have already taken enforcement action against practices and have achieved a number of positive results. the unfair commercial practices directive does not cover business-to-business commercial practices because there is no case for maximum harmonisation of national laws on unfair competition. a comprehensive harmonisation directive on unfair business-to-consumer practices was already a very ambitious proposal which would have failed if its scope had been extended to unfair business-to-consumer competition practices. the consultation leading up to the proposal and the work in the council have shown that there is little support for extending the scope of the directive to unfair business-to-business commercial practices. while some member states were in favour of extending the scope of the directive and unfair competition acts, others expressed support for consumer protection but opposed the establishment at eu level of a harmonised complementary system of unfair competition rules. although the commission cannot take action against companies involved in such practices, it has endeavoured to raise awareness of the problem among companies by presenting it to various european trade organisations. the issue has been raised in particular within the business support network and, at the same time, the small business act requires member states to protect small and medium-sized enterprises from unfair practices. if it deems it appropriate, the commission will continue to examine other ways of raising awareness among businesses. in addition, the commission wrote to the competent authorities of the member states concerned spain, austria and germany to draw their attention to the fact that the situation persists and to request further information. the responses received clearly show that the national authorities are aware of the problem and have legislation in place to deal with it; where appropriate, they have already made use of the measures provided for.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 16 december 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, yes, of course i will follow up on that. i will make sure that you get a reply as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! when the matter of the unfair practices of advertising companies such as city guide was referred to the committee on petitions, of which i am chairman, we were very pleased when our proposal to draw up a report on the matter was accepted. it was prepared by mr busuttil, to whom i congratulate on his success. the whole committee on petitions and the secretariat of the committee on petitions worked on this. the european parliament adopted a resolution on this issue today. i am grateful to all those who have contributed to this: first to mr busuttil, and then to all those members of parliament, and almost all the members of this house who supported this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! this is not the only area where demands for payment for services not rendered are encountered. that is why i strongly support this report, and why i voted for it. i would also like to say that i was unable to vote on the first reports which were put to the vote today because the blockade in front of parliament prevented not only me but many other members from getting here. i object to this.
mr. chairman, please! the general explanation is that i too was unable to take part in the first vote today because of the blockade on the way to parliament. it seems absolutely unacceptable that a french police officer should not allow a vehicle marked as a parliamentary vehicle to enter parliament. it only happens in strasbourg. if this situation is to be repeated, i will join the group of those who are against the seat of the parliament in strasbourg, because in brussels such situations do not occur.
in writing. - mr albertini rightly points out that the existing agreement between the community and the republic of india should be amended. i share his view that the broader agreement should cover issues such as legislative cooperation on ground and air safety, route management and air traffic control, the environment, technology and research, and issues related to business and industrial cooperation. i also think that the reference to the indian agreement with the united states is a good example. i agree with the suggestion that the committee on transport and tourism should give a favourable opinion on the conclusion of a horizontal agreement between the community and the republic of india as a first step.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the establishment of a european judicial network in civil and commercial matters. the draft submitted to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs responds to the need to simplify and speed up judicial cooperation between member states. the main objective is to facilitate citizens' access to justice. the rapporteur's programme focuses on promoting cooperation between members of the legal profession, whose task for the future is to identify best practice. furthermore, the commission's report on the functioning of the judicial network in civil and commercial matters found that it is not making full use of its potential due to the lack of national contact points. the proposed creation of such intermediary points and the gradual implementation of the european e-justice system would increase the accessibility of general information on the law and the functioning of the judiciary to eu citizens.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i supported the report by mrs heide ruhle on the simplification of the conditions for the transfer of defence-related products in the community because of the many facilitations it brings to the functioning of the arms market. in addition, the creation of a community defence legal framework eliminates the risk of any european union country being accused of illegal arms trafficking. as you know, several eu countries have been recently accused of illegally selling arms to georgia. common legislation in this area for the 27 eu countries has the potential to prevent similar situations in the future.
in writing. - the report adopted today introduces harmonised technical rules for trucks to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market. in particular, provisions have been introduced to ensure a high level of environmental protection by introducing limit values for harmful emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. the proposal also provides for measures to allow access to repair information which is the same as for the standards adopted in euro 5 and euro 6. this is essential to ensure that independent market participants have standardised access to repair information. the information provided to independent repairers must be the same as that available to authorised dealers and repairers. these provisions will allow for easy repair by independent market operators, making it easier to access regular maintenance and making prices more competitive on the market. access to technical information will undoubtedly make all vehicles, wherever they are inspected, safe for traffic and environmentally friendly.
in writing. − the report adopted today will help to improve the conditions of employment of accredited parliamentary assistants working in one of the three places of work of the european parliament. this is a change that has been long awaited by both the assistants themselves and the members of the european parliament. the report distinguishes between national assistants and accredited assistants, due to the specific nature of the work of the latter group of assistants. the clear-cut status of parliamentary assistants gives accredited parliamentary assistants many of the privileges previously reserved for staff of other european institutions, but above all they are granted privileges that eliminate unnecessary uncertainty about, among other things, the place of taxation, healthcare and social security. the statute will also remove any doubts about the remuneration of assistants by specifying the grade groups of assistants and clearly defining the basic rates of remuneration. the statute also benefits members themselves. the work of members and their relations with their staff are based on a high degree of mutual trust. the statute does not restrict the freedom of members of the european parliament to choose the assistants with whom they wish to work, without thereby jeopardising the independence of the mandate of members of the european parliament.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by giuseppe gargani on the conditions of employment of other servants of the european communities. the report distinguishes between national and accredited parliamentary assistants. it should be made clear that accredited parliamentary assistants who perform tasks for the member or members have specific duties towards them resulting from a relationship of mutual trust. this distinguishes accredited assistants from eu staff whose employment relationships are based on criteria of transparency, objective assessment and loyalty to the institution. the special situation of assistants does not imply that they have any privileged or direct access to the posts of officials or other categories of staff of the european communities. parliament's adoption of this report means that, for the next parliamentary term in 2009, all accredited parliamentary assistants employed by members of the european parliament will benefit from the social and tax rights of community officials.
mr. president, i have to go. already in october this year, news broke that the czech presidency could be ignored. there has also been talk of your proposal to take over the presidency of the euro group as an indirect attempt to control the czechs. so i would like to hear from you how the outgoing presidency intends to behave towards this new czech presidency. mr president, in this house two months ago, in answer to my question about president kaczynski, you said that you would persuade him and that the agreement was being kept. but no one suspected that kaczyński would be guided by the opinion of the irish people, not his brother. but will you do the same for president klaus? or is there no more conversation? and in closing, mr. president, i want you to enjoy listening to elvis.
mr. president, i have to go. i'm one of the few members of this house who won't congratulate you on your six-month presidency. because i think the two flagship projects you've been pushing for the last six months are just plain harmful. and it's not only bad for my country, but bad for europe. the adoption of a climate package now, even in a slightly more acceptable but still bad shape, is simply absurd. the revival of the lisbon treaty, which was rejected in a national referendum in ireland, is a mockery of democracy. and don't be under the illusion that you'll buy more support for lisbon in poland with one extra seat in the european parliament. mr. president, i have to go. even if you managed to persuade the other heads of state or government in brussels last week to support your controversial ideas with your diplomatic talent, i hope that the citizens of sovereign states will say no to these ideas in next year's elections to the european parliament!
president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen of the house, mr kirkhope, thank you for your support. this gives me the opportunity to speak to a british conservative and to say how much we in europe need this great party, the british conservative party, to remain deeply committed to european construction. i have no business in politics in britain. you have a young leader, mr cameron, you are a party with a long history. we need you inside europe, and no one, mr kirkhope, in europe, can succeed alone. i do not know what the future will be for mr gordon brown, what the future will be for mr cameron, but whoever is leading britain, he will need others to move forward, to defend his interests, to triumph in europe. we cannot do this alone, and i would like to say one thing to you, i have always been convinced that britain has a special role to play in europe. i've been criticized for that at times because britain is the world's first language, because it's a vibrant economy, but think about it. look at what it cost britain to be too exclusively open to the united states, look at what it cost britain to be too exclusively committed to financial services; look, europe needs britain but i remain convinced that britain needs europe. when i went to britain, i said that the cordial understanding between france and britain was not enough. gordon brown said it was a great deal; i really think that we have come out of the financial crisis stronger because britain has clearly chosen europe. let me say that we have not always been so well used in the past, and without making any internal politics, i want to say that this is the truth. mr poignant, the french presidency is neither perfect nor a failure, and you, being loyal to mr mitterrand, are the perfect "ni-ni". so you don't think good or bad. the only thing you think deep down is that if i succeeded, it's because i had two good socialists... never two without three, mr. poignant: jouyet, kouchner... i discern a little envy in all of this! more seriously, i would like, if you will allow me, to register as false against all those who thought that there were structural disagreements between germany and france. i have the opportunity to explain myself, and i also say this to mrs marielle de sarnez. the franco-german axis, the friendship between france and germany, is not a choice, it is an absolute duty. our two countries were at the heart of the greatest tragedy of the 20th century. it is not a choice, not because i do not agree with it, but it is a duty to the world and to europe. we must walk hand in hand. i am absolutely convinced of this, and it is a responsibility, mr poignant, which goes far beyond mrs merkel, myself, yesterday mr schröder or mr chirac, it is a historical reality. we cannot separate, precisely because our history for a century has been what it has been. but at the same time it is not an insult to anyone to say that the franco-german axis cannot be the same in a europe of 27 as in a europe of six. in a europe of six, nine, perhaps even twelve, all that was needed was for germany and france to agree, and everyone else would follow. i say this: this is not the europe of today, and that is why i have called for the re-establishment of this franco-german axis, on a bilateral basis. we need it, but we cannot carry the franco-german axis as if we were always twelve. i remember when germany and france agreed - it was not in my time - on a candidate for the presidency of the commission, the other one came out, because it gave an impression of arrogance. well, the friendship between france and germany, which is indispensable, is not exclusive of other agreements, other friendships. that is the first point, and i say that because i sometimes get the impression that some people look at europe through the lens of 30 years ago, when we have to look at it in relation to what it will be in 30 years' time. secondly, mrs merkel is a strong defender of germany's interests. and if she didn't, who would? you can't blame him for that. she does it with talent, she does it with strength, she does it with determination. i'm also defending the interests of my country. wasn't that what i was elected to do? so, sometimes we don't agree right away, so what? what could be more normal? democracy, the sense of compromise, are they impossible because this is germany and this is france? yes, i had to take steps towards the chancellor; yeah, she took a step towards me, so what? it's for the greater good of germany. is it simply that because it is germany and because it is france, we do not debate anything, we do not discuss anything? our german friends were not enthusiastic about the union for the mediterranean. there were misunderstandings. i've been discussing these misunderstandings. what's the problem? in any case, i do not intend to give reasons for every time mrs merkel and i agree, support and help each other. but i do not forget one thing: germany is a federal state, whereas france is much more centralised despite the decentralisation. the pace, the time of decision is not the same. it has nothing to do with ms merkel's qualities or my faults, it has to do with the structure of two states that are not the same. and then, germany is in coalition. i am not sure that mrs merkel spontaneously chose the socialists for her government. i assume i've chosen the socialists in my government. this is a second difference, but it also explains the timing of decisions. but you can be sure that germany is not under attack. germany is the largest economy in europe. we need germany, germany needs europe. but let us also say that france and germany do not have more rights than the others, we have more responsibilities, and we must also bear this together. don't worry, i'm fully aware of that. mrs de sarnez, you are right, there is much to be done. i do not wish to go back on your assessment of the presidency. there's still a lot to do. you spoke of the need for a european regulator, and you are absolutely right. let's just say it like it is. the commission has not yet succeeded in doing so because a number of smaller countries feel that the lack of a national regulator is a problem of national sovereignty. we must take this into account, but from my point of view, i think that at least we should have a college of european regulators. secondly, is there a need for a european public prosecutor? it is an exciting debate which involves other elements, at least better cooperation. on the big projects, it is my turn to tell you not to be too hard on us because five billion euros have been released by the president of the commission. it was a famous battle, mrs de sarnez, because not all the countries agreed on this, precisely to finance large projects, and the truth is that the commission was much more ambitious than some states. the commission simply has to give its approval for the five billion to be used for major projects. we got it, but there's still that five billion. finally, on aid to developing countries, let me say that i do not share your view. with mr barroso we used the billion euros that some states, once again, did not want, and at the hokkaido summit i had to convince my european partners to give mr barroso permission to use what had not been spent in the service of the millennium development goals, and that is the billion euros that we have put in. at the doha summit, i was astonished, mrs de sarnez, to be the only western head of state present at the table. of all the heads of state and government of the g20, there were two of us: the president of south africa and the president of the european council, as well as mr barroso; the others weren't there. imagine what you might have told me if i hadn't made the trip! we were there because the crisis must not be used as an excuse to make the poorest countries pay the highest price for a crisis in which they are not to blame. i think that might be a point of disagreement where we're coming together. mr hudghton, diversity and unity, rest assured, from the point of view of diversity we have no progress to make! i would like to say that i am not in favour of the idea of a european parliament, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the idea of a european parliament. it's a little more complicated to know where we're going. there's a great french ethnologist, lévi-strauss, who said a definitive sentence, which was extraordinary when he said it himself: "identity is not a pathology". identity is not a pathology in europe, but really, the extra energy must be put on unity. mr crowley, thank you for your support at the last european council. i had the pleasure of welcoming you to the elysée as the representative of your group, and i must say that i greatly appreciate the courage and integrity you have always shown. madam de brún, yes, we must reassure and convince the irish. you're telling me we haven't gone far enough. i am sorry to say that we cannot go any further, because otherwise we will immediately cause trouble in other countries. if, to solve the irish problem, we reopen the debate on ratification in other countries, particularly britain, we are in an impossible situation, and the most difficult of the compromise was the discussion early, very early on friday morning at the european council between the irish prime minister and the british prime minister to find an agreement. mr brown - as i understand it - did not want the ratification debate to be reopened in britain, when everyone knows that it has been extremely painful. so i don't think we can go any further. but frankly, we are still a long way from promising a protocol to the first accession treaty in two years' time. mr wojciechowski, we will help the czech presidency. there must be no doubt in your mind. what did president kaczynski say to me? i'm sorry to tell you this, but the last time he said something to me, he didn't mean it. he said at the european council table that he would not stand in the way of ratification of the lisbon treaty if the irish voted yes. i simply reminded him of one thing - and i do so without interfering in the debate with prime minister tusk - that it was in my office, at three o'clock in the morning in july 2007, under the german presidency, with prime minister zapatero, with tony blair, with prime minister juncker, that we got the polish president to sign what was to become the lisbon treaty, while he was talking to his twin brother, the prime minister at the time, in warsaw. i respect the polish president, but let me be surprised that someone could sign a treaty in brussels and refuse to sign the same treaty in warsaw. i'm not going anywhere. i'm just saying that when you sign a state's signature, well, it's a word! you'll understand that. i don't want to say more, but that's what i've been told. the lisbon treaty was not negotiated by prime minister tusk, it was negotiated by polish president kaczynski and his twin brother, then prime minister. that's all i'm saying. finally, it has not been fully ratified because it lacks a signature, but it has been ratified by parliament. that's all i'm saying. to say that is not to make internal policy, it is to be honest, and i must, with the responsibilities that are mine, be honest, say exactly what happened, with whom we negotiated and when. because if you don't, there's no trust left. it is not a question of left or right, it is not a question of east or west, it is simply a question of respecting the word given. without respect for the word given, there is no rule of law, there is no europe. that's easy to say. (applause) i would like to thank mr chruszcz, you know that i have frankly done everything i could to help poland find a way to compromise. at the european council in july 2007, under the german presidency, we almost missed a tragedy, when a number of member states said that we would continue without poland. and it was at the last moment that a compromise could be found on the lisbon treaty! that's the truth of it. no one wanted to give up poland. poland, with its 38 million inhabitants, is one of the six largest countries in europe in terms of population. we need you. in the compromise, i went to gdańsk to negotiate with poland and eight other states. we understand the problems of poland. we will accompany poland, but poland must also understand that as a great country in europe, it has rights, but it also has duties. because the counterpart of rights is duties, and it is a disservice to say that because you have been in the european union for less time than others, you have fewer duties. poland is a big country in europe. we should not be blamed for treating it as a great country, that is to say, for asking a little more of it, precisely because poland is a great country. that is exactly what i wanted to do and i hope the poles will understand that. mr nassauer, thank you for your support as a very experienced parliamentarian, as a german parliamentarian. i was not shocked that industry in general and german industry in particular were being defended. because i see too much - and i say this to president schulz and president daul - i see too much of the damage that the financial disaster is doing to countries that have not defended their industries with sufficient force. i think it transcends the divisions that exist between us, because we do not want europe to become an industrial wasteland. because an industrial wasteland means millions more unemployed, because if we let go of our industrial jobs, we'll let go after the service jobs. it is a mistake to say that we are defending services and not defending industry. what we meant was that defending industry means forcing it to modernise, because europeans will no longer accept industries that pollute. that's the balance we've been trying to find. it was painful, it was difficult because germany is a large industrial country and, of course, a large industrial country is more concerned than a country that no longer has industry. your country is next to poland. if the conditions were created for a derogation for poland for 2013-2020, the question of new power plants in germany would have to be raised, so that there would be no distortion of competition between two countries so close. i thought it was honest, too. mr rasmussen, we must not take the results for granted. you're absolutely right. but let us not forget the social stabilizers, because our american friends have the fantastic genius of communication, of announcing extraordinary figures. for now, these are announcements. i remember the paulson i plan. we were all stunned. suddenly, the secretary of state for the treasury announced 700 billion! and everyone is asking themselves: will europe be able to do as well? and what did we see? three days later, it was not voted by congress and the americans were back to square one. what did we see after that? that despite everything, this sum, it was not what was planned. the social system in the united states has nothing in common with the social system in europe, in each of our countries. we must add to the money we are putting into the recovery the social stabilizers, that is to say all the benefits, what we are doing to cover them from the evolution of inflation, and what we are putting in the pot. but, please, let us not be the ones who do not believe in the plan we are working on! maybe the crisis will be so bad that something else will have to be done. but then again, i do! what we got was not nothing. you tell me that the united kingdom and spain have done the most. but spain had a budget surplus and is facing an unprecedented housing crisis. mr. zapatero was very responsive. but let us not envy the economic situation in spain either! in the united kingdom, i am often told that banks have done more than you. yes, but the difference is that, as the english banks were fully committed to the american market, there was a risk of bankruptcy which was not met with the same power - which was a debate between the commission and us, by the way - in the other member states. it is wise to wait a little while for the implementation of these various plans to develop. i remain optimistic about europe's ability to work together. finally, last point, you call me to continue, mr rasmussen. yes, to continue as i am! then i must reassure you. there is no risk. (applause) i would like to thank
mr. chairman, please! the french presidency has been hit by a major financial crisis that has shaken the world, including the european union. fortunately, president sarkozy did not claim, as some european politicians do, that the crisis will not affect us. he acted very quickly, and i want to thank him very much for that. but those six months were also a time of another crisis - the time of russia's invasion of our eastern neighbor, georgia. and in this case, for all my sympathy for president sarkozy, i have to say that he was not up to the task. his first mistake was forcing president saakashvili to sign a bad deal with russia. bad, because it does not guarantee georgia the most basic thing, namely its territorial integrity. president sarkozy did not listen to his colleagues, whom he described today as having had decades of experience behind the iron curtain. he didn't listen to them, because if he did, he would know from their experience that the russians would see such concessions as a sign of weakness. and that's exactly what happened. after all, even this bad agreement is completely disregarded by the russians. a few days ago, the polish president was shot on georgian territory, and the russians took the georgian village of perewi. despite this, president sarkozy continued his policy of appeasement towards russia, including by resuming negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement. president sarkozy will cease to be president of the european union in two weeks' time, but he will not disappear from european politics. he's going to continue to play a big part in it, so i wish him every success. i hope he learns from his mistakes in the future.
mr president, it was a great presidency, not because, as president sarkozy said, there are big countries and small countries, but because mr sarkozy, the president, was personally up to the challenge. the french presidency has not had an easy life, far from it: the georgian crisis, the financial crisis, among other problems, including the treaty of lisbon. all of this has required a response, an action, and that's the hardest thing about leadership. that leadership was assured. the presidency has proved that it is capable of doing so, to its own credit and for the good of the union. i shall mention three points, apart from those of georgia and the economic crisis: neighbourhood, climate, security and defence. the neighbourhood policy has been given a powerful boost both in its mediterranean dimension, with the union for the mediterranean, and in its eastern dimension, with the eastern partnership, which deserves as much attention as the southern dimension. it was time to move beyond the talk about neighbourhood and to action. the citizens of these countries needed a strong signal of support for their efforts to reform and their aspirations for a better life. the consolidation of peace, stability and good governance in the regions close to our borders is essential, and i would even say existential, for our project of integration. on climate and energy, i would just like to thank the french presidency for its empathy and understanding of the sensitivities of the new member countries. the third issue dealt with by the presidency and the council was the strengthening of security and defence policy, in particular by substantially improving civilian and military capabilities. - thank you. in conclusion, the key to success is to have the means to do so. that is the challenge of the presidency and the summit. but whether it is the energy-climate package, economic recovery or security policy, we must all apply ourselves in a coordinated way to these efforts, that is, the institutions and the citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the recent european summit is a landmark event and, for the new member states, it is being compared to the accession negotiations and treaties, given the importance of the energy and climate package. i was pleased to hear about the unity of the union, its ability to reach a difficult compromise on the energy and climate package. but i want to warn you that compromise is only the beginning. only in 2020 will we know whether we have succeeded in achieving the climate and energy goals, the so-called 3 x 20% target, and whether the economies of the new member states, and in particular poland, have successfully modernised their energy sector without incurring excessive and drastic economic and social costs. the provisions on ratification of the lisbon treaty are optimistic, but the proposals for joint action to combat the financial crisis, and in particular the deepening economic crisis in the european union, which is being felt by the citizens, are disappointing. i therefore call on the commission and the next presidency to present a real programme of joint action to prevent the increase in unemployment and the decline in economic growth in the union.
in writing. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for a successful french presidency. this is both for the successful actions taken in the global forum (the georgian crisis) and for the involvement in so many issues important to ordinary citizens. i am personally pleased that it was the french presidency that concluded the work on the eu's crossborder maintenance regulation. i have worked on it for a long time and i am glad that once the council has approved it, we will finally be able to provide adequate financial security for these children, whose parents, perhaps, have simply "forgotten" about them when they are abroad. on the other hand, as a member of the afco committee, i am concerned about the concessions and institutional promises made to ireland, which restore the principle of 'one country, one commissioner'. the expected enlargement of the eu to 30 or more member states will make the european commission's work even more bureaucratic with the same number of commissioners, disperse the powers of the commissioners-designate and make the commission itself more costly, less efficient and more difficult to manage. i would also expect that the debate leading up to the next referendum in ireland will be conducted in a spirit of european solidarity, taking into account the well-explained substantive issues of the lisbon treaty (including institutional changes) that are important both for the irish people and for the functioning of the european union as a whole.
in writing. the participants in today's debate on the french presidency can be divided into three groups: those who praise the presidency uncritically, those who criticize it and those who remain silent. no matter which group we are in today, we all have a responsibility for the future of the nations of europe. we are also responsible for the french presidency, which, despite its great activity and its massive propaganda, has really achieved nothing good. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is a political entity, and it is a political entity, and it is a political entity. the lack of democracy in the eu is a clear reflection of the climate package that emerging economies, including poland, are pushing in the name of bailing out the crisis-ridden old member states. president sarkozy's cynicism is to keep silent about the fact that man emits only a few percent of co2, and europe a dozen. so without solving this problem with the participation of other continents and countries, including india and china, the effect has not been and will not be. it will only be a new tax, a penalty for joining the union for new member countries, including poland. and finally, democracy is a conscious choice. imposing harmful solutions on free countries is associated with totalitarianism, and therefore the road to nowhere.
the european union during the french presidency in the economic area was dominated by the activities related to the climate and energy package and the financial crisis. europe has become very diverse and specific through its great expansion. this is not just about the level of economic development of the member states. it is therefore very difficult to find uniform instruments to deal with the very different problems facing the economies of the member states. anti-crisis measures require a diversified package of instruments for the period of the crisis, such as the possibility of reducing the vat rate or of waiving some of the requirements of the stabilisation and growth pact. the climate and energy package should be tailored to the level and specificities of individual economies and their sectors. in my view, this diversification of activities within the package is not adequate to the prevailing reality. the concessions and benefits that individual countries have received will not be able to equalise their development opportunities because we have such different starting points. i therefore support the systematic review of this package, with an analysis of its state and progress, and the necessary adjustments to be made on that basis.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in view of the achievements of the french presidency, i would like to draw attention to a few points which affect its overall assessment. while president sarkozy's intervention in georgia in august halted the war, it was more about russia's economic interests and its relationship with france than a genuine desire to resolve the issues that led to the war. another issue that points to the direction of eu development and governance is the approach to the ratification of the lisbon treaty. the case of ireland, where a referendum is to be held until the largest countries in the community have a positive decision, shows that the interests of germany, france and a few other countries are more important than the accepted principles and the democratic debate. the fact that the irish people are being bought off by derogations from the treaty also shows that in the eu, every country can be treated differently and bought off. this decision confirms the increasingly widespread practice of the community institutions to manipulate the law. i would remind you that during this presidency the decision was taken to have the eu destroy polish shipyards in a situation where the community is developing a re-nationalisation of industry and banks, including in your country. there was also no agreement on the part of your presidency to level the agricultural subsidies to an equal level. you have kept them at a very disadvantage in relation to the new member states. mr president, you have looked after the interests of france, not the interests of all the eu members.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you, rapporteur, for your report. i would remind you that before the council meeting, a compromise was reached on three of the six reports in the climate and energy package, and it was a clumsy compromise. it was then possible to say that since we had agreed on a common position in 50% of the directives, the european eco-industrial glass was half full. a skeptic would have noticed, however, that the glass was still half empty. after the eu summit, the glass is already full. this compromise is not an easy compromise. it is a huge economic challenge for the member states, especially the new ones. the standards in the compromise version are screwed up, they set the bar very high for the economies of the countries in our region. we have to remember that all of these numbers and metrics that we so easily put on paper are going to determine the real, tangible money that's generated by our taxes and the equally real jobs that we may lose.
mr. chairman, please! in thanking the rapporteur and in supporting the compromise in the draft renewable energy directive, i would like to make a few comments. renewable energy is energy that uses wind, solar, geothermal, ocean waves, river run-off, biomass and biogas. unfortunately, sometimes renewable energy installations can, but do not have to, cause environmental damage or a reduction in food production. so we must be reasonable and systematic in all our activities. the cost of renewable energy should also be reduced through innovative solutions. she doesn't really have to be expensive. and we should be counting the costs, including the environmental damage from conventional sources. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the involvement of local governments, especially in urban areas. we also need to systematically educate the public on this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community. let's not waste the treasures of our mother earth.
by 2020, 20% of the energy consumed should come from renewable sources. this is an ambitious undertaking in the light of the current situation in europe. today, renewable energy accounts for 8.5% of total consumption. each country should seek the resources that it can best exploit within its territory. it is noteworthy that local authorities are increasingly and willingly using renewable energy. i think it's the local initiatives that are the future of this sector. such initiatives can count on broad support, including financial support, from both national and european sources. it is therefore necessary to encourage such activities, to demonstrate their benefits and to support those already undertaken. the benefits are many: additional jobs, income, taxes, and above all, renewable energy.
madam president! a whole carbon reduction system based on unverified hypotheses will not improve the environment or human conditions. the aim of the document was to maximise carbon reduction by forcing the use of a dangerous, environmentally unjustified ccs technology. we do not want to destroy the environment by making senseless garbage out of geological formations and destroying economies that will lose their competitiveness with third countries by plunging them into recession. poland's package could cost at least 500 billion zlotys. the proposed auction system for allowances is extremely costly. moreover, by spreading to other sectors of the economies of the member states, the ets is a convenient tool for converting those economies towards taking over the fiscal policy competences of the member states' authorities by gradually phasing out the existing taxes and replacing them with arbitrarily determined environmental taxes.
madam president! the european commission's proposal was that large industrial plants and power stations that emit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere would have to buy permits at special auctions. if the system were really implemented in this form, we would have a wave of bankruptcies. we've managed to avoid this catastrophic scenario and have introduced solutions that will lead to increases in energy, but not that big. it's important to look at the whole energy issue. the european parliament has therefore already proposed the creation of a high-level energy policy officer responsible for coordinating all policy strategies covering the external aspects of energy security, such as energy, environment, trade, transport and competition. today, the question is the role of the european commission, which has prepared its proposal in a totally biased way, without taking into account the situation of the countries whose energy is based on coal, that is, one third of the countries of the european union. i therefore think it is appropriate to ask the president: is a common europe a europe of dictates or of agreements? i think commissioner dimas has failed the exam. at the crucial moment of the negotiations, the commissioner had nothing to say, merely repeating generally valid statements which were in no way the basis for a compromise. he thus undermined the credibility of the community's approach to european problems. it was the french presidency that saved the common approach to climate change. it was the french presidency that made it possible to conclude the energy agreement, and i thank minister borloo and minister kosciuszko-morizet for that. this should be done by the recently established european institute of technology in budapest.
madam president! for me, this directive is an example of good, effective dialogue in the european union. that was probably the most difficult directive we've had in this term. the amendments that were proposed were not clear to everyone. we finally listened to each other. first in parliament, and then i will admit that the french presidency has shown extraordinary integrity in its approach to the matter. i also thank commissioners dimas and piebalgs for their participation in the debate. but the most important thing now is that we have to implement this directive. we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, at least 20%! we have thus created a common european union climate policy. we haven't been that clear about it yet, but this directive is about our common policy. it will require systematic action, monitoring, as if to check each other, as in any common policy. we also need to fund a strategic energy technology program. this is the answer to the co2 assessment. this will be the beginning of our common energy policy. that is what the european union needs.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the debate on action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i would like to draw attention to the following points: 1.the new member states, taking 2005 as the reference year for the co2 reduction scale, agreed not to take into account in the negotiations the carbon reductions they had made as a result of the industrial restructuring that had been ongoing since 1990. in the case of poland, the co2 reduction scale between 1990 and 2005 was around 30% and entailed huge social costs, especially over 20% unemployment. 2. committing to further reductions of 20% by 2020 and simultaneously buying emission allowances in 2013 - 30% and gradually up to 100% by 2020 will unfortunately mean significant increases in electricity and heat prices for the population, as well as significant increases in energy prices for industry. the latter may lead to the elimination of many energy-intensive manufacturing sectors such as metallurgy, cement, lime and fertilisers in these countries, with all the negative social consequences of this. 3. if the european union, the united states and south-east asia do not join the co2 emissions equally into the scheme, the enormous economic and financial effort of the european union will be negligible. the european union is responsible for 14% of global co2 emissions, and the us and south-east asia for over 80% of these emissions.
mr. chairman, please! the imposition of uniform emission limits of 500 grams co2/kwh for all fossil fuel power plants after 2015 is a mistake and is technically unattainable for coal-fired power plants. it's a kind of moratorium on new coal plants, and maybe that's what it was about, maybe that's why the benchmarking method was rejected. investors are impatient because it takes many years and costs a lot to build from scratch. the countries most dependent on coal should therefore start acquiring ccs experience as a matter of urgency. this requires urgent financial support and i am asking the commission to do so, because the emission trading measures will be too late. two or three experimental ccs installations need to be set up in poland right now. this is the integrated conversion of coal, coal-to-electricity combined with cogeneration or hydrocarbon production and possible geological storage of co2. only then will we achieve the right 3x20 goal.
mr. chairman, please! the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. the ccs technology currently available appears to be an appropriate means of neutralising the greenhouse effect in a relatively short time. at the same time, however, we must not ignore the potential risks posed by ccs. it has been demonstrated that improperly stored gas can explode. in addition, if the reservoirs are opened, there is a risk of acidification of groundwater, which threatens the safety of the population. it is therefore necessary to take measures to eliminate or at least minimise these risks during the design and implementation of the investment. it seems that a geological carbon storage system is the best possible solution for our times. but to make it work, we need to convince the biggest polluters, the us, china, india, that they're not just closing coal plants, they're building them in droves.
mr. chairman, please! we happened to be debating mr groote's report yesterday. it was a very good report, and it was also about the automotive sector, just commercial cars. today we have mr. sacconi. we can say very clearly that we, as the european union, we, as parliament, are doing everything we can to ensure that people, our citizens, live better and better in terms of protecting the environment. we have to take into account that these projects were feasible for industry. they won't be easy, but they seem achievable. the second point is that the new products we are planning must find buyers, and what the rapporteur, mr sacconi, has proposed to us shows that these good qualities, namely the protection of the environment, the ability to produce these types of cars and then to find acceptance in the market, can be fulfilled, and i thank you for that.
(microphone initially off) ..are responsible for about a third of the greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. there is no doubt that an innovative solution aimed at the implementation of environmentally friendly technologies should be supported. we have made some progress in this area recently, but the continuing increase in the number of cars means that the positive effects are still not visible. the commission's initiative to accelerate change therefore seems to be a step in the right direction. however, in view of the achievement of the ultimate objective of reducing harmful emissions, we must also take account of the arguments of car manufacturers, since the european automotive industry is one of the symbols of europe's economic power and employs thousands of workers. the imposition of overly stringent requirements may lead to a decline in its competitiveness, as a result of the increase in the prices of cars produced, and thus to mass redundancies. these concerns are particularly justified when considering the negative effects of the economic crisis in the automotive sector.
in writing. the current debate on the 'green package' confirms the ambitious goals europe is setting in the fight against climate change. the automotive industry is part of the european strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, reduce the energy consumption of the economy and increase the share of energy from renewable sources by 2020 compared to 1990. this is particularly relevant for co2 reduction activities. according to eu figures, cars currently account for 12% of total emissions of this gas in the community. the high level of emissions is mainly due to the increasing number of cars and the increased use of road transport, which is not offset by improvements in engine design or reductions in vehicle weight. the reduction of the co2 emission limit for passenger cars to 120 grams per kilometre by 2012 and the establishment of a long-term strategy to reduce this limit to 95 grams per kilometre by 2020 takes into account the european parliament's proposal that the development of new types of passenger cars takes between 5 and 7 years, which consequently affects the development and production cycles of the automotive industry. the assumptions adopted should be considered environmentally ambitious. on the other hand, the increased r & d costs imposed by the new standards promote scientific research into fuel-saving technologies. this increases the level of innovation in the automotive sector, which in turn will support the competitiveness of the european economy.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i'd like to thank minister borloo for his excellent preparation and completion of the negotiations on the climate package. unfortunately, the third energy package was already weaker during the french presidency, but i take this opportunity to thank commissioner piebalgs for his work in the first half of this year, because we have managed to implement the third energy package to a large extent in parliament, thanks to continuous discussions with the commission and the many amendments we have introduced. i think that in the climate package we have a problem with what are called windfall profits. the main reason for this kind of profit is the lack of a real market, the lack of proper connections. it's hard to imagine windfall profits in the case of, say, selling cars or selling apples or oranges. because there is a full market and there such profits would be impossible. so, now that we've taken such a big step towards protecting the environment in the climate package, we need to think about market action. it's our duty. increased competition, energy security, the single market - these are all things that our customers are looking forward to most. i have a specific question for the french presidency: during the debate on the energy and climate package, has there been any change in the positions of the individual countries in relation to the third energy package? because today it is clear that the completion of the third energy package is absolutely necessary for the implementation of the climate package.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs inés ayala sender, on her report. this is another very good report by one of the best members of our committee. there are four causes of accidents and four areas of regulation at european level that have been identified, namely: speed limit infringement, belt fastening, alcohol and driving issues and red light driving. these are indeed the key causes of accidents. your position on the european council was very dramatic, commissioner. it is regrettable that our ministers are taking such a view of the fundamental issue of road safety. this is a matter of our union space, which is an open space. impunity, or the feeling of impunity, is the real source of bad behavior. and the second very important factor is the disparity in the treatment of eu citizens depending on the country they are in. you need an effective system. there must be an awareness that the penalty is enforceable irrespective of the geographical area of the european union. if this regulation contributes to that, we will be successful. i have the particular pleasure of speaking knowing the reality of my country, poland, where we have 5,600 road deaths a year.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? the second reading of the budget of the european institutions will be, in effect, a repeat of the first reading, and i have been left with the justification for why. in the council's case, we respect the gentleman's agreement and appreciate the council's restraint in budgeting for 2009 while noting the additional needs in the area of the so-called reflection group. in the case of the other institutions, the increased need for funding for two of them is noteworthy, namely the court of auditors, due to the advance payment for the new seat (this method of financing the new seat will ultimately be profitable for european taxpayers) and, in the case of the european court of justice, the so-called new urgency procedure, which requires the financing of additional staff needs. as far as the european parliament is concerned, we have tried this year what is known as the pilot procedure. this is an encouraging pilot project because of the very good cooperation with parliament's administration, which is also a personal merit of mr rømer. and it was a test of sorts, as this will be a special year for the european parliament because of the elections, the need to finance the election campaign and the completely new rules on the status of members of the european parliament, together with greater transparency of the pension fund and new rules on the recruitment and funding of parliamentary assistants. the alignment of these issues with respect to members and assistants is good news in an election year. this will of course mean additional costs in the european parliament's budget. we have nevertheless tried to achieve the objective we have been pursuing for some years, namely that the european parliament's budget should not exceed 20% of the administrative expenditure of the european union, despite the specific needs. in fact, we are expecting a quick vote on thursday, thanks to the good cooperation of the coordinators and the very good cooperation of the european parliament's secretariat - to name two: marianna pari, richard wester. these are the people who deserve to be mentioned on such an occasion.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. it's a good thing there's not much left to amend the budget. it's hard to tell who's right and who's wrong, and we won't know until the end of 2009. fortunately, at the beginning of the year, once the budget has been adopted, we will be able to make changes, as we do every year. yesterday, the president of the french presidency, president sarkozy, said that there is not as much debate on big issues as on small ones. this may mean, as commissioner grybauskaitė said, that in the future a completely different budget should be created, one that not only changes the budget lines but also integrates them more. the current fragmented budget, with many items, is hard to read. it takes a lot of time to make, it leads to a lot of discussion. and in reality, it's been up for days, if not hours. as was the case with the 2008 budget, when the first meeting of the committee on budgets already saw the introduction of adjustments. it would be better to have larger headings and to indicate in the description what the funds can be used for. this would make the budget much more flexible and give the european commission and parliament's committees more power to monitor the use of funds throughout the budgetary period and to respond to emerging needs on an ongoing basis. what sense this year-long discussion of the details of the budget for the next year makes is shown by the recent increases in the european council in 2008 or the increase in the budget for the next years by 200-250 billion.
madam president! i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. in the context of the growing financial crisis in the european union and the economic consequences of this, the budget is extremely low. commitments of just over 1%, payments of 0.9% of gni and, above all, a surplus of eur 3.2 billion, show that the largest member states are not willing to finance the most important tasks of the european union. secondly, the european union is extremely willing to take on new commitments that were not foreseen in the financial perspective. recently, an additional billion euros to prevent famine in third world countries, or half a billion euros to rebuild georgia. these, if justified, will have to be financed at the expense of other important tasks which the union has committed itself to financing much earlier. thirdly, individual member states, especially the less prosperous ones, such as my own country, poland, have placed great hopes in the institution of prefinancing of projects supported by the structural funds in order to combat the economic crisis. i would hope that this extremely modest budget will allow large investment projects to be financed in this way.
mr. chairman, please! today's budget debate is more important than any other. the union's budget, its size and its distribution have a lot to do with it, especially now in the midst of the great economic crisis and the coming food crisis. in addition to the economy, food security and energy, we must also ensure the development of backward regions, such as the eastern wall. improvements in the management of assets, including the management of restructuring funds, are also needed. the budget clearly shows a lack of resources for culture, education, science and the fight against poverty. this is because of the budgetary constraints and it proves that 1% of gdp is too little to do the job properly. the budget presented is extensive, detailed and therefore not very clear. it is high time that we reflect on this and adopt other constructions of it in the future.
mr. chairman, please! when we pass a budget, our expectations always clash with reality. the budgetary framework is not very flexible and it is difficult to move funds. this is a sign of the stability of the funding of specific actions, but it does not allow for a quick response to changing realities. the current budget does not reflect the will of many of us in the european parliament in terms of the current situation, such as the need to counter the growing economic crisis or to finance new technologies that improve the environment and combat climate change. the budget does not meet the expectations of young people, students, students in terms of financial support for youth exchanges, taking lessons, studying in other countries. in conclusion, i would like to say that the next budgets or financial perspectives are more about continuing the previous budgets and objectives than responding to the current and future challenges. the systematic reviews of the financial perspective are therefore necessary, because seven-year planning is too long.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? the only uncertainty in the part of the budget for which i am responsible is the future of the lisbon treaty, which changes the powers of parliament and may have budgetary implications. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the european union is based on the principle of the need to ensure that the financial perspective is fully implemented. it is also unfortunate that millions were negotiated during the so-called conciliation with the council, when billions of the announced but unspecified anti-crisis package were hanging in the air. so, we're likely to pass a budget tomorrow that will be more open to change than ever before.
the debate is closed. the speakers were so disciplined that we have finished in good time, and this is a good message for budget discipline in the future. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 18 december 2008. written statements (rule 142)
mr. chairman, please! the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme document is ancillary to the necessary technical measures that are intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the trading of allowances presented may attract speculative capital, which may have a negative impact on the funds allocated to the technical measures. for example, in poland, a cheap energy-saving light bulb cost about 5 pln, but after being encouraged to buy it by the propaganda for reducing energy consumption, it costs more than 10 pln. the trading system therefore requires careful monitoring and refinement. i do not support this directive in its present form.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this directive because i believe it is one of the greatest frauds in human history. an absurd decision based on completely falsified data, without any rational scientific basis, which will cost at least a trillion dollars in the european union alone! this money, spent in a stupid, stupid way, could be used for the real fight for a clean, fair environment, for clean air, free of pollution, for combating toxic gases and for clean water, which europe lacks and will lack more and more. a trillion dollars spent in this way would only reduce the temperature by 0.12 degrees, which cannot have the slightest effect on the course of climate processes. this is a completely absurd achievement, and parliament should be ashamed of itself!
mr. chairman, please! the emissions trading system will be crucial to reducing carbon emissions. it continues to be controversial in the new member states of the union, including poland, which considers that the rules for determining the result achieved are incorrect. it is not so much the 20% rate itself as the base year against which it is measured. the package says 2005 but the countries opposing it argue that 1990 would be the right reference point. the economic transformation in these countries has already led to significant reductions in carbon emissions. the measures taken during this period involved considerable effort and also a huge economic cost. the solutions proposed in the package are therefore still considered to be unobjective, disregarding the cuts made so far and the economic potential of individual countries, and are promoted by some countries of the so-called old union.
mr. chairman, please! carbon capture is certainly a very interesting question from a technical point of view. unfortunately, the expected technical success must be paid for by high costs and energy consumption. at present, in the very difficult economic situation of companies linked to the financial crisis, it seems that all the funds should be directed to energy saving activities and the modernisation and construction of clean power plants that, instead of storing co, radically reduce its emissions without additional costs. such technologies are already tested in europe. i'm not in favor of spending money on co storage right now.
mr. chairman, please! the corbey report on the monitoring and reduction of greenhouse gases from fuels is an important issue in the policy of reducing the greenhouse effect. the most harmful of these gases are in urban areas, where about 80% of the population lives. the only solution to this problem would be to move to clean transportation -- electric, hydrogen, hybrid vehicles. in the current difficult situation of the automotive industry, it should be helped to start mass production of this type of vehicle. this would result in a radical reduction in co emissions.
in writing. - i supported mr turmes' report. one of the european union's renewable energy goals is to revitalise cities in central and eastern europe by improving energy efficiency. the modernisation of public transport and local heating systems with alternative energy sources is of great importance not only for the energy sector but also for environmental protection. it is also a sector where institutions and businesses can receive substantial funding from the eu budget. for example, over €720 million has been allocated to the intelligent energy programme, which promotes energy diversification and renewable energy.
in writing. − i voted against the adoption by parliament today of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to improve and extend the community's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. i strongly disagree with the solutions proposed at european level. the european council's commitment to reduce the community's total greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, and even by 30% if other developed countries commit themselves to comparable emission reductions, is in my view an ill-considered step that is hurting industry and consumers in europe, including in my country, poland.
in writing. − active and inactive working time is an important issue for many professional groups, especially for doctors. the division of the shift into active and inactive shifts is contrary to the concept of working time and the basic provisions on working conditions. is there someone who can monitor when the doctor is resting on duty and when he is fulfilling his duties by performing an emergency procedure or planning the next operation? besides, controlling it would entail hiring controllers and other absurd costs. it would simply be against the work ethic.
in writing. − the debate on amendments to the working time directive has attracted the interest of many circles, in particular trade unions and employers' organisations. today's vote in the european parliament does not end this debate. the european parliament adopted amendments rejecting the council's proposal on the organisation of working time. the draft will now be examined in the context of a conciliation procedure, which calls into question its adoption in view of the wide differences of opinion between the member states and the european parliament. the removal of the opt-out clause from the directive is particularly unfavourable. in particular, this may have unforeseeable consequences for the continuity of medical services, including in poland. i would like to make it clear that i am in favour of a 48-hour working time limit, with the possibility of extending it only with the consent of the employee. i would like to stress that the directive currently in force allows for a 78-hour working week, which is a solution that is disadvantageous to both parties. the compromise proposed by the council guaranteed a balanced approach, respecting the different labour market models and respecting workers' rights. i hope that the further negotiations between the european parliament and the council will lead to a negotiated solution satisfactory to all parties, taking into account in particular the demands of the medical community concerned by the amendments to the directive.
madam president! a moment to reflect: human rights, which are the result of written or unwritten social agreements, sometimes referring to natural rights, are the basis of social coexistence. there's no doubt about it. the concept of human rights has been expanded to new dimensions, the definition has a richer and richer semantics, and our task is to defend these rights. it would seem that there is an improvement in this matter, on a global scale, but unfortunately the facts are sad, because totalitarianism still works. we have to fight for every single person, every single brave activist, who is the conscience of many millions, because millions, despite suffering, are often silenced by fear. it turns out that at least some of the regimes are reacting to our decisions by protesting resolutions and declarations condemning their actions. we can't let that intimidate us. this is how we shape human rights awareness. and i want to emphasize that the greater this awareness, the greater the chance for a united front to build a just social world. investing in human rights is a priority for my group and it should be a priority for the whole parliament. let the sakharov prize be our flag of concern for the fundamental value of a normal and happy life for every individual on earth.
madam president! i have spoken on many occasions on human rights, especially women's and children's rights, and on raising awareness among eu citizens of issues relating to the empowerment or condemnation of discrimination. we must also require applicant countries to respect fundamental human rights in accordance with the copenhagen criteria, which will have a positive impact on the situation of many millions of people in europe and the world. member states should set an example. this is linked to another point - i want to say something about my objections to the activities of the german youth offices called jugendamt. in recent days, a case has surfaced in poland of a mother who, together with her son, has to hide from the father of the child, because she is afraid that the child will be taken away from her by a father of german origin. the european commission should examine the activities of these offices against the standards recommended by the union.
madam president! the effective protection and promotion of fundamental rights is a cornerstone of democracy in europe and a vital condition for the consolidation of the european area of freedom, security and justice. the need to guarantee respect for fundamental rights is reflected in the constitutional traditions common to the member states and in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as in other instruments of international law. in my view, the realisation of fundamental rights, as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, should be the aim of all european policy options. i would also point out that an active policy on the protection of fundamental rights cannot be confined to the cases most visible to the public. it is important for the credibility of the european union in the world that it does not apply double standards in its foreign and internal policies.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. at least two points are strongly contested in this report. first, the issues of sexual orientation, and second, the issues of so-called reproductive rights. the demands for the extension of access to abortion and the recognition of so-called homosexual marriages by all the member states of the european union have nothing to do with fundamental rights. there is no international instrument that would affirm the right to marry as such. moreover, there is no legal basis for this in the eu treaty itself. the continuous introduction of these issues into the catalogue of fundamental rights by the european left is meant to accustom us to these demands. but i want to assure you that we will never agree to that. i would like to ask the representatives of the european commission whether the commission is actually going to present a draft directive on combating homophobia and what this draft might entail. does the commission see a legal basis for drafting a directive on the mutual recognition of same-sex couples in all eu countries? are there any plans to do so in the european commission? is the proposed directive on discrimination outside the workplace intended to introduce the recognition of so-called same-sex marriages in the eu countries through a 'narrow door'? i insist on a strict and comprehensive response to these difficult legal issues.
mr. chairman, please! every 20 years or so, the international community leans over to human rights, adopting the universal declaration of human rights in 1948, the human rights covenant nearly 20 years later, and the convention on the rights of the child in 1989. and we in the european union still cannot get a binding document, a charter, which would be binding for us as a charter of fundamental rights, to be drawn up. i therefore welcome mr catani's report on the rights of the child, and i would like to say that these rights should be our first priority, because children are the future of europe, because this is the europe we are raising. that is why poverty, which is a form of discrimination against so many children in europe, should be put to rest, we should put a dam on it in the name of a good, future and just europe.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully understand the concerns of the european parliament. the council now has the results of the european parliament's first reading. there is a logic of work and operation which means that the council, which has done its job by calling for a consolidation of the 2007 legislation, needs the documents produced by the commission to be able to go further. until the commission has communicated this work to the council, i have to tell you that we will have to wait for that moment. i am convinced that once we have the working document on the consolidation of the legislation on olaf, announced by the commission, we will be able to move quickly on the reform dossier. but we need this document and parliament can count on the council to take this matter forward in the usual respect for good institutional cooperation in order to clarify as much as possible the legal framework applicable to olaf.
member of the commission. - madam president, the commission, in the proposal for the small business act, has fully recognised the problems faced by small and mediumsized enterprises. as regards access to finance, which is the subject of mr zwiefka's question, the commission has announced specific actions to improve this situation together with the european investment bank. we are of course in agreement with the need to help small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. the financial crisis has substantially worsened the channels of financing for enterprises, and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, in many member states. to counteract these effects, the community institutions and also the member states, within their respective spheres of competence, have taken concrete measures. the commission has introduced measures to stabilise the financial system which will help banks to resume lending to their customers. we have also supported certain changes in accounting standards and accelerated approval of bank recapitalisation programmes and bank guarantees. in addition, as is well known, on 26 november the commission approved the recovery plan worth eur 200 billion, a plan which was supported and endorsed by the european council last week. within this plan worth 200 billion euro there is in our communication 30 billion euro coming from the european budget or from financing actions of the european investment bank to help revitalize the economy. and within those actions, both through budgetary resources and through financial measures, there are clearly lines of financing and aid which will substantially benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, and this is in addition to the agreement reached at the informal ecofin council in september this year in nice for the european investment bank to step up and, at the same time, anticipate its lines of specific financing for small and mediumsized enterprises. complementing these agreements, the european investment bank has announced that it will provide intermediate financing - technically called mezzanine financing - to small and medium-sized enterprises through the european investment fund, totalling €1 billion. as i said earlier, in the plans of the various member states, in the framework of the recovery plan endorsed last week by the european council, there are already several examples of important countries of the european union by economic size, such as the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, which have provided specific financing measures for small and mediumsized enterprises, which we all know represent a significant volume of turnover, employment and the productive fabric in all our countries. finally, i would like to refer to the agreements which the commission has adopted at a time of particular economic difficulties, using the written provisions of the treaty to provide the necessary flexibility in the framework of state aid, and this will also benefit small and mediumsized enterprises in particular, such as the agreement we adopted yesterday to raise the so-called 'rule of minimum' in state aid. finally, next january the commission and the small and mediumsized enterprises, their representatives and also the banks will hold a meeting of the so-called 'constructive dialogue' to exchange views on the effectiveness of this aid, on the situation and on the possible need to strengthen the decisions already taken in recent months.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. thank you very much for your extensive explanation. since you have spoken of the work done by the commission and also of the commitments of the european investment bank, i wanted to ask whether the banks with which we are talking, the banks which are receiving enormous support, are committing themselves to a policy which ensures that the small and mediumsized enterprises sector functions reasonably well. is that also a commitment on the other side?
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a market economy and, as you sit in the seats you are sitting in, i am sure you share this statement, and the rules of the game in a market economy are what they are. i therefore believe that no one thinks that the credit system, the financial system, the economic system in general would function better if all the decisions of economic agents and, in particular, in this case, of financial agents were decided by the ministries or were decided in brussels in one of the many buildings in which the european institutions carry out their activities. therefore, it has to be the banks who decide to give credit. the fact is that when banks rely on public money and public guarantees or guarantees, they also have to meet a number of conditions. national programmes to support the banking sector vary in terms of the type of conditions depending on the circumstances, the characteristics, the type of instrument being used in each country. for our part, on behalf of the european commission, we have approved the guarantee programmes submitted by each of the member states to check that they comply with the competition and state aid rules. we are in the process of finalising the approval of the latest national recapitalisation plans. the commission has adopted and published horizontal rules to explain the criteria we are using at this exceptional time to analyse whether these plans comply with the rules of the treaty and, in all cases, we set a deadline of six months, because, six months after our initial approval of these plans, we must and want to analyse what has happened. if the taxpayers' money, the citizens' money provided through these aid programmes is being well used and the difficult circumstances of the economy continue to affect the functioning of the financial markets, we may authorize the continuation of these programmes. if the economy has improved - which we all want - or if the money is not being used for the purpose for which it was authorized, we will also act accordingly and take the necessary decisions. we are not prepared to allow taxpayers' money, which is being risked to improve the functioning of financial circuits and credit markets and circuits, to be wasted or to be used without achieving the appropriate results. as regards the second question, the european investment bank, in its aid programmes for small and mediumsized enterprises, acts through intermediaries in each of the member states. in each of the member states, therefore, it is the intermediary or intermediaries who transmit to the productive fabric, to small and mediumsized enterprises, the credits and financial facilities based on the support programmes we have decided on; it is these intermediaries, these financial agents who have to give and provide the appropriate information to which the honourable member referred.
member of the commission. − i think i can say that the commission shares with many the shock of the recent events in mumbai, which were also very clearly and strongly condemned by the council of the european union on 8 december. in this connection, the european union expressed the hope that pakistan will fully cooperate with the indian investigation and that both countries will work together in bringing those responsible to justice. terrorist networks aim at undermining regional peace and stability; they should not be allowed to succeed. the eu has therefore urged that regional cooperation in combating terrorism be stepped up. dialogue and cooperation is the way forward, so that gaps in mutual perceptions and approaches can be addressed. there is no alternative to working with pakistan’s civilian government. president zardari, as you know, has shown himself committed to reconciliation. the pakistan authorities have carried out arrests in connection with allegations of involvement by its citizens and organisations in the mumbai attacks. these are very important steps. what is required now is the firm commitment by the government of pakistan to crack down on terrorist networks so that further attacks can be prevented. the commission is looking into the possibility of launching projects aimed at reinforcing pakistan’s counter-terrorism capabilities. a visit by eu counter-terrorism coordinator gilles de kerchove together with the commission is scheduled for january next. that is all i can say as a response to the two questions.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. these are the questions that i and deputy kuc wrote together three weeks ago. during that time, as the commissioner himself said, certain facts have come to light. in this regard, i would like you to assess, comment on the statement of the pakistani authorities saying that they cannot imagine handing over captured terrorists to the indian authorities. could this kind of declaration affect the relationship between new delhi, islamabad and karachi in the region?
(...) to complete my question. how do we control the use of pakistani territory to train the taliban, who then have a very large share in the fighting in afghanistan, where european and us resources are involved.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the project involves vocational training at many levels depending on intelligence, motivation, interests and market needs. common labour standards require convergence in training models from spain to romania. i would like to emphasise that the emphasis on university level education should not undermine vocational education at the lower level: secondary or high school. you don't need a degree to be a waiter, and sometimes a short course is enough. recently, this training, in poland for example, has been cut. as a teacher, i want to say that i would be in favor of an individualized and plastic learning program with an emphasis on foreign languages, if possible, so that everyone can find themselves in another country. in conclusion, i would say that the investment in education, commissioner, is one of the best in europe. let us not spare money for it, let us not be stingy with our successors.
mr. chairman, please! the proposed system of transfer and accumulation of vocational education and training credits should contribute to the mobility of workers within the union. in order to enable the european union to compete with third countries, to develop economically, to increase employment and to reduce interregional disparities, lifelong learning should be promoted. we need the elderly. the union needs their experience, their qualifications, their knowledge. if we want an economy, a knowledge-based society, we should invest in education. the drop-out rate without qualification should be counteracted. it is also important to help people to acquire education and skills, especially those in difficult financial situations, including those in small towns and villages who still have difficulty accessing educational services.
mr. chairman, please! at present, the european union lacks a full vision of cooperation with the countries bordering the eastern border. in addition to the long-term objectives set by the european union for these countries, specific short-term objectives should be defined and a system should be introduced to assess them in the light of the degree of compliance of these countries with the established rules of border cooperation. in the area of borders with third countries, the work of frontex should include measures to control trafficking in human beings. first, common, permanent and operational surveillance patrols should be established in all high-risk areas throughout the year. as the main instrument of the european union's overall strategy on immigration, frontex should ensure that the union's external borders are sealed and should also do everything possible to avoid becoming an instrument for the creation of new borders - the borders that divide europe, the borders of new walls.
in writing. i am understandably interested in the work of frontex, as it is the only eu institution located in poland. contrary to earlier concerns about the tightness of the eastern border of the european union, the main threats to illegal immigration have emerged in the mediterranean. this is therefore the main area of operation of frontex. i had the opportunity to visit malta and the camps for african refugees there, so i understand the gravity of the problem and the immense human suffering that lies in the desperate sea crossing towards malta and the continental shores of the european union. illegal immigration is a common challenge and requires a common strategy and community tools. these tools have been developed by frontex since october 2005 and the eurosur border surveillance system. understanding the growing financial needs, the european parliament is seeking an increase in the budget of the frontex agency for the third year in a row. the member states' commitment to this matter and the distribution of financial, equipment and operational burdens has been highly uneven. for geographical reasons and therefore different sensitivities to the problem of immigration, the uneven involvement of the european community actors in this community policy seems to be a permanent feature, difficult to overcome.
in writing. in view of the risks posed by illegal immigration, europe needs more integrated management of the union's borders through a harmonised approach to migration, including the organisation of legal immigration. even if it were assumed that each member state should control its own border, given the situation on both the eastern and southern borders, appropriate cooperation should be undertaken in order to share material and human resources to combat this phenomenon. the appropriate introduction of border controls will reduce cross-border crime and thereby contribute to raising the level of internal security. in addition to its activities aimed at reducing the flow of illegal immigrants, frontex should also promote the strengthening of the global partnership with third countries and make some progress in the area of the right to asylum. illegal immigration is also characterised by a high number of deaths that occur when crossing borders illegally. this should be the case for the establishment of year-round patrols in high-risk areas to monitor the risk of loss of life. it is necessary to establish two separate units, one of which should monitor the land border and the other the sea border, paying particular attention to the use of the overland routes by migrants along the eastern border. there is also a strong need for continued training of staff involved in frontex activities to increase their efficiency and professionalism, and for a common system of information exchange to optimise activities.
madam president! we are not here to be convinced of the dangers of counterfeiting. there are many cases where counterfeits have endangered health or even life, and there is no need to go into detail here. it is enough to mention that not only luxury goods, cds, but also medicines, foodstuffs for children and adults, and car parts are counterfeited, often endangering our safety and causing losses not only to small and medium-sized enterprises. the counterfeiters are organized into criminal groups. their activities are highly profitable and must be combated. this is why joint ventures are needed, not just in the area of customs activities, but also strong administrative cooperation between member states, which in my view is currently insufficient. only the european commission's action against the smuggling of counterfeit cigarettes is a positive example of such cooperation. i would like to see this experience transferred to the fight against other counterfeit products. the issue of counterfeiting is the responsibility of several directorates-general of the european commission. it might be a good idea to designate a single directorate-general within the commission responsible for these matters and to define the scope of its competence. a written declaration on similar products, prepared by me and others, is now before the european parliament. many original products are copied by so-called similar products. it is often unclear to what extent similar products can be prosecuted for infringement of laws on unfair competition or intellectual property rights. moreover, consumers often buy similar products mistaking them for branded products. it is difficult to estimate the scale of the problem in the european market. i would therefore like to have the european commission reply to the question whether it intends to accede to our request and prepare studies on the impact and status of similar products on the internal market.
madam president! there is no doubt that counterfeiting and piracy have recently become a major problem in international trade. the european union, the world's second largest importer, is particularly vulnerable to counterfeit goods, from branded products, toys and medicines, mainly from asian countries. it should be noted that this phenomenon has a much wider scope and more serious consequences than we think. products supplied to the european market in breach of intellectual property rights are generally of lower quality and, consequently, also much cheaper than their original counterparts. this in turn leads the consumer to prefer the former for economic reasons. counterfeiting and piracy are theft, and i fully support any initiative to curb this practice. i am particularly concerned about the intensity of the violence we have seen recently. we must therefore take decisive action not only at european level but also within the wto. let's not let this robbery go unpunished.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by ieke van den burg on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directives 78/660/eec and 83/349/eec as regards certain disclosure requirements for medium-sized enterprises and the preparation of consolidated accounts (com2008) 0195 - c6-0173/2008 - 2008/0084 (cod)) (a6-0462/2008), and the commission statement on the accounting obligations of medium-sized enterprises.
mr. chairman, please! the main objective of entrepreneurship policy is to create an environment favourable to the creation and development of enterprises. the improvement of the economic environment includes administrative and legal simplifications and financial, tax, social and environmental impacts that affect the activities of enterprises. the unification of regulations brings enormous benefits to the entire international business environment. first, financial reporting standards of transnational relevance facilitate the assessment and comparison of the financial situation of companies from different countries and thereby facilitate investment decision-making. second, by preparing financial statements in accordance with generally recognised and accepted accounting principles, companies have a wider access to capital. smes are often subject to the same rules as large companies, but their specific accounting needs are rarely examined. it is important that discussions focus not only on simplification but also on the relevance of financial reporting requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises as opposed to large listed companies. the debate on simplification is generally focused on costs. the debate on the significance of the requirements is about the benefits of financial reporting and about the individual users and their needs. there are several reasons for introducing simplified rules for smes. first, the benefits of implementing global standards in small and medium-sized non-public companies are certainly less than in large publicly traded companies. this leads to a mismatch between the benefits and costs of applying standards. the establishment of an appropriate cost-benefit ratio requires the reduction of the latter. secondly, financial reporting does not play a significant role in meeting the information needs of sme owners, as they have direct access to the information. thirdly, users of financial statements of smes are generally less knowledgeable about reporting accounting and should therefore be adapted to the capabilities of the recipients.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has for many years been sounding the alarm about the problem of unnecessary and disproportionately high administrative costs imposed on european businesses. it is therefore gratifying that the commission has finally addressed this issue by proposing, by means of an accelerated procedure, amendments to the fourth and seventh company law directives as regards disclosure requirements for medium-sized enterprises and the obligation to prepare consolidated accounts. i support the commission's approach to simplifying the conditions for european businesses to operate, but on the assumption that these changes will not result in a reduction in transparency and a loss of information for account users. the proposal to remove the requirement to disclose the organisation's costs also seems appropriate. extension to medium-sized enterprises of the exemptions for small enterprises, which are already widely used in most member states, could help to reduce the reporting burden for the former. as regards the proposed amendments to the seventh company law directive, the requirement to draw up separate financial statements is not in fact justified by the fact that consolidated accounts would in this case be virtually identical to optional individual accounts. the european commission should continue its efforts to amend the fourth and seventh company law directives with a view to presenting a european accounting framework before the end of 2009. uniform standards will reduce the administrative burden for smes and increase transparency for all actors involved.
mr. chairman, please! small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union employ about 60% of the workforce. so their economic condition is very important. in particular, in times of financial crisis, it is important not to complicate their legal obligations in order to facilitate their activities. this is an opportunity for these companies and their employees. the reporting simplifications provided for in the amending directive are a step in the right direction. however, i agree with a colleague who pointed out the need to ensure that local journalists have access to information.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i am sorry for the delay. we were late leaving paris. although i did not hear all the debates, i also wanted to thank you for the debate today. the council takes note and will take note of each of your comments and recommendations and of your interest in these matters, particularly as regards your commitment to simplifying the burden on business. this is a very sensitive issue today, but we must, particularly in the context of the crisis, simplify without deregulation to build a much safer environment in europe, to ensure the development of small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i welcome the minister and, like her, i would like to join in the thanks that have been addressed to parliament, to mrs van den burg, to mr lehne and to mr gauzès for having carried out this work which has enabled us today to reach this first provision. i have heard what has been said about small businesses. the aim is to adapt the rules for small businesses when the revision is planned, but i would like to reiterate that member states will have the choice either to use these rules or to create another alternative adapted to local circumstances. i have personally been very sensitive to the argument that small businesses should not be relegated to a situation which, under the pretext of simplification, would put them somewhat outside the realm of economic life. i believe that this debate will enlighten my colleague, mr mccreevy, who is responsible for the internal market, and that it will enable us to continue to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, especially the smallest ones. we thank parliament for its continued support and hope that this good cooperation will continue in the new year.
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 december 2008.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report drawn up by mr manuel medina ortega on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on the european official journal (2008/2124 (ini)) (a6-0451/2008), the report drawn up by ms diana wallis on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on recommendations to the commission on e-justice (2008/2125 (ini)) (a6-0467/2008), and the report drawn up by mr antonio lópeza-istúriza white on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on recommendations to the commission on the legal protection of adults: cross-border implications (2008/2123 (ini)) (a6-0460/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're discussing three very important reports. i would like to thank in particular mrs wallis for her extremely comprehensive, substantive, competent, excellent and all-embracing report. the european parliament, followed by mrs wallis, stresses the importance of the problem affecting at least 2% of the citizens of the member states of the european union. of the nearly 500 million inhabitants of the european union, 10 million are involved in international litigation. for these people, the use of the latest information systems in the area of justice can be crucial, it can improve, simplify and shorten the time of court proceedings. our proposals, whether they are taken up by the european commission, can facilitate access to justice and, importantly for our citizens, reduce the cost of litigation. there seems to be reasonable support for the idea of two e-justice web portals. the first would serve citizens, including businesses, by providing legal aid - legal advice in many languages. the second, the sectoral, professional one, would be an instrument to assist lawyers, judges, prosecutors or advocates and judicial officers in their work. new technologies can also be used to combat transnational crime and for prevention. not to mention the proliferation of videoconferencing as a natural method of obtaining and collecting evidence in ongoing cases.
mr. chairman, please! the european union must address the significant ageing of the populations of the member states associated with a significant increase in life expectancy. so the number of people aged over 60 will be about 40% of the european population by 2050, with over 10% of our population being over 80. these demographic changes have serious economic, social, health and budgetary implications. this requires the establishment of appropriate and specific safeguards guaranteeing equal rights and obligations in all areas. increasingly, protected persons are staying in a country other than their country of residence or receiving hospital treatment in a country other than the country in which their assets are located. legal protection systems therefore need to ensure the continuity of judicial decisions, administrative decisions or decisions taken by the protected person himself. this is particularly the case for the future protection powers which must be used in the member states of the union. it is therefore necessary to provide for an effective mechanism for the transmission of files, in particular in cases of urgency, where, for example, a person subject to a protection measure needs to be hospitalised while temporarily staying outside his or her country of origin. this would allow europeans to travel or reside in a member state other than their country of origin without any obstacles, without losing access to effective and rapid treatment.
mr. chairman, please! in its communication to the parliament and the council of 10 may 2005 on the hague programme, the commission identified as a specific priority the guarantee of a genuine european area in civil justice with regard to the recognition and enforcement of judgments and the implementation by 2011 of the principle of mutual recognition, which is a concrete measure for the protection of citizens across borders in europe. the union is growing, and citizens are encouraged to move more and more. however, the circulation of these documents within the community is hampered by problems relating to the circulation of official documents. the different approaches adopted by the member states to the recognition of authentic instruments originating in other countries have resulted in the current flow of these instruments being problematic, limited both in number and in the types of instruments. it is necessary for the commission to take concrete steps to introduce without delay a single system of mutual recognition and enforcement, appropriate for official acts and common to all member states, which will greatly facilitate the daily lives of citizens and businesses. at the same time, given the differences in the structure and organisation of public ownership and property register systems, entries in public property registers should not be covered by that abolition. the authenticity of an authentic instrument shall be subject to the conditions laid down in article 4 of this regulation. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr manuel medina ortedz, on a very well-written document.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to start by congratulating ms. diana wallis on her excellent report and draw your attention to two facts. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i have observed how often citizens of the european union are not aware of the rights they have, and on the other hand sometimes they think they can intervene in matters where they have no rights. the european parliament has also launched a new website, the e-justice portal, which will help eu citizens to contact the european parliament and its committee on petitions. i also wanted to draw attention to the second thing that ms. diana wallis said in her speech: you have to respect local laws. this was said 250 years ago by the famous french philosopher montesquieu, who said that when you make laws at a higher level, at the territorial level, you should always remember that small districts, small territories, and in this case the states of the european union, have their own traditions that must be respected.
mr. chairman, please! in each member state we have different legal systems, different rules on the admissibility of acts. we should therefore strive to make the cross-border movement of official documents as easy as possible, but we must remember that the certainty and security of legal situations and activities is more important than the ease of movement. the rules on the recognition of official acts need to be harmonised to make life easier for our citizens and to simplify the way businesses operate, as they expect. such rules will certainly save time and money. we must strive to establish uniform rules for the recognition of authentic instruments in the various member states, but the category of authentic instruments should certainly not be extended to those documents which do not meet the essential requirements.
in writing. - the 2009 budget does not fully meet our expectations, and only to a small extent responds to new challenges and current affairs. it is a continuation of the objectives and assumptions adopted and fulfils the necessary requirements in this respect. i voted to accept it. however, i would like to draw attention to the following problems: 1. it is good that we are increasing the amount of money to support agricultural development in developing countries where food is scarce, but let us remember that in the european union nearly 80 million people are at risk of poverty and 43 million are at risk of malnutrition. 2. despite the cap, the income of farming families is much lower than that of non-farming families. 3. we are witnessing a systematic collapse and bankruptcy of farms in europe. agricultural stocks are dwindling, threatening food security, and some want to reduce cap expenditure. 4.in cohesion and structural policy, we talk about territorial, economic and social cohesion, about equalising the level of development and creating equal development opportunities, especially for poor regions. in fact, depopulation is occurring in areas with difficult economic conditions, where the state of infrastructure is very desirable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by mr jutty haug and mr janusz lewandowski on the draft eu budget for 2009. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. parliament will increase the amount of money allocated to social and employment policies, i.e. measures to promote competitiveness and cohesion. these include expenditure on the social fund, which will receive an additional €135 million, the regional development fund and the cohesion fund. in the current difficult financial situation across the european union, initiatives for growth and employment are of paramount importance, and this needs to be reflected in the 2009 budget. it is good that it also shows the intention to allocate additional funds to help small and medium-sized enterprises. developing countries will be able to count on financial assistance to mitigate the effects of food price shocks - and an additional €1 billion will be provided to prevent famine in third world countries. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament will reduce its administrative expenditure to below 20% of expenditure.
in writing. − the european parliament's december session voted on the european action plan on employment mobility prepared by the committee on employment and social affairs. labour mobility is based on the fundamental principle of free movement of persons within the internal market in accordance with the treaty establishing the european community. security is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the citizens of the european union. community legislation should protect migrant workers against the loss of their social protection. significant progress has been made in this area, but efforts should continue to reduce administrative and legal obstacles to mobility caused by the specificities of the rules in each member state. it is employment mobility that is the means of strengthening the economic and social dimension of the lisbon strategy. mobility appears to be a necessary means to achieve the objectives of the renewed european social agenda and to address a number of challenges such as demographic change, globalisation and technological progress. i support the european mobility action plan, including the idea of an information and advice portal providing advice on all aspects of occupational mobility - including job vacancies, healthcare and social security, recognition of qualifications and training.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a directive on the safety of toys. it is a very good directive that increases the safety of toys that end up in the hands of our children. this is particularly important at a time when we are increasingly hearing about accidents that have been caused by toys, for example by swallowing parts that are not properly fitted. it is worth noting that a large proportion (around 80%) of toys on the european market are imported from china. the directive has succeeded in reconciling the interests of groups representing the interests of consumers and of representatives of the toy industry. i can only rejoice that a compromise has been reached on a regulation so crucial to me as a parent. both groups benefit from this directive. consumers can be sure that toys that reach the european market and are offered to their children meet high safety standards, are free of harmful substances and carry clear warnings for those buying toys. the toy industry has repeatedly stressed that the safety of children is not subject to any compromise, hence their favourable position to the proposed changes. however, these changes should not jeopardise the position of european toy companies. the negotiated agreement will give them an additional two years to adapt to the new chemicals legislation.
in writing. − improving vocational training is a key element in achieving the lisbon strategy's objectives of economic growth, competitiveness, employment and social cohesion. the planned european credit transfer and accumulation system for vocational education and training (ecvet) is one of the initiatives in the field of education at european level. learning outcomes vary considerably due to the diversity of national vocational education and training systems. ecvet provides a methodological framework that covers acquired knowledge, skills and competences, organises the issue of transfer and accumulation of points and places them in the context of qualifications. it facilitates cross-border labour mobility and transparency of professional qualifications acquired abroad. ecvet can be a valuable instrument for adapting vocational education and training systems to labour market requirements, provided that it takes into account national and regional specificities and is functional from the point of view of its users - workers and enterprises, including smes and smaller establishments in europe. it supports cross-border mobility as well as access to lifelong learning in vocational education and training. it should enable learners to choose their own career. i believe that the introduction of ecvet will make an important contribution to the creation of a european labour market, provided that the administrative burden associated with it is reduced.
in writing. − the report by ieke van den burg on the amendment of certain disclosure requirements for medium-sized enterprises and the obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements is a good piece of legislation. the report presented by the legal affairs committee aims to simplify the conditions for doing business for medium-sized european companies in the short term. it consists primarily in exempting them from the obligation to disclose information on the costs of the organisation as assets (i.e. costs associated with the establishment of the company) and to prepare consolidated financial statements by parent companies with only non-significant subsidiaries. i am of the opinion that the extension to medium-sized enterprises of the exemptions for small enterprises in the context of the harmonisation of company law does not threaten to reduce transparency, but on the contrary may considerably reduce the financial and administrative burden on small enterprises.
in writing. - our market is flooded with more and more counterfeit products. they are a serious problem not only for our companies, which, by maintaining their legal activities and adhering to safety standards, compete with cheaper counterfeits, but, worse still, in the case of counterfeit food, car parts, cosmetics, toys and especially medicines, they are a real threat to the health and life of consumers. the existing law contains loopholes that allow counterfeit products to enter our marketplace without any problems. for example, there is no definition in polish law that would allow the characteristics of a counterfeit medicine to be specified. it's not the same as using fake perfume. failure to be conscious and to take counterfeit medicine can have tragic consequences.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. two months ago, we were debating here the catastrophe of the great famine in the ukraine in the 1930s. the question was often asked: how could this tragedy have happened? why was the world silent? today, what is happening in zimbabwe raises a similar question: how can a nation be annihilated by its leader? why is the world doing so little about it? resolutions alone won't change the leader. let us consider whether we will continue to watch the destruction of the zimbabwean people as the un troops watched the murders in rwanda. or perhaps the response would be more clear-cut if the country had vast natural resources. today's resolution is a very good document, but it is only a document. if we're going to save people, we need to do something more dynamic. it is also imperative that zimbabwe's neighbours be helped to provide adequate border assistance.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. zimbabwe has long been facing a very serious humanitarian crisis: nearly half the population is suffering from hunger, access to running water is virtually impossible, and sanitation is terrible. in the last decade, life expectancy has dropped from 60 years for both sexes to 37 for men and 34 for women. the cholera epidemic has killed 800 people and infected more than 16,000. according to doctors without borders, about 1.5 million people may soon be infected. the country's economy is in a sorry state. inflation has been the highest in the world for a long time. over 80% of the population lives on less than a dollar a day. the zimbabwean authorities seem to be blind to the gravity of the situation and are remaining passive. president mugabe has not fulfilled his promise to form a national unity government, and political opponents are subjected to constant repression. the dramatic situation in zimbabwe requires a strong response from the union and the council and the commission should confirm their commitment by continuing the humanitarian aid programme for the suffering population. the zimbabwean authorities should be pressured to lift restrictions on aid organisations and to stop arresting human rights defenders. in addition, support must be given to the elders group to obtain permission for its members to enter zimbabwe. the process of democratic change in the country requires the involvement of other african countries, regional institutions and international authorities. the chance to stabilise the situation in the country is to hold fair parliamentary elections and monitor the process of forming a government, and the international community should be prepared to provide financial assistance for the reconstruction of state structures based on the rule of law.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the information contained in the resolution on the situation in zimbabwe is staggering: 5.1 million people, almost half of those affected by hunger, more than 300,000 people at risk of cholera epidemic, 1.7 million infected with hiv, life expectancy of 37 years - too much for any government to handle alone. therefore, any initiative to improve the situation in zimbabwe should be fully welcomed. the authors of the resolution rightly point to the need to resolve and develop humanitarian action and to take other measures, including diplomatic ones, by the council, the commission and the member states of the union, and to provide financial and material support to zimbabwe, not only on an ad hoc basis but also in the long term, on the basis of a specific programme. and rightly so, because with the next resolution, the bread won't come. we need concrete help, and the people of zimbabwe are waiting for it.
madam president! the situation in zimbabwe was covered on april 24 of this year. the issue at that time was the outcome of the election, specifically the retention of power by president mugabe regardless of the outcome of the election. today, we face the dramatic consequences of that situation. more than 12,500 people infected with cholera cannot count on government assistance, and 565 have already died. the epidemic is also spreading to south africa. the above information from the un reports from early december is lower than the information currently provided by humanitarian organizations. the death toll has now passed 1,000, and the number of infected has reached 20,000, according to the authorities. millions of people are starving, there's no water. the african union is not taking effective action to improve the situation in zimbabwe. today, it is imperative that president mugabe be brought before the international criminal court and that urgent action be taken to control the cholera epidemic and provide food and health assistance to the people of zimbabwe.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. nicaragua is a very small, poor, indebted country with a very low per capita income. this country was unlucky and was ruled by groups of different political orientations, occupied by american troops, balancing between cuba, the ussr and the usa. in addition, the country has been ravaged by droughts and hurricanes, one of which in 1999 killed 6,000 people and was perhaps the most famous, the largest hurricane in the world. political changes, power struggles, have hampered its development, as in many countries in south america and africa. this situation is the cause of human rights violations and the creation of a law contrary to international conventions. the european union, in assisting the people of this country, sees the need to introduce democratic principles in governance and to bring the law into line with international conventions. nicaragua, with democratic governments, could become a member of the emerging community of south america, which could in future be an ally of the european union in global politics. it would be essential for the democratization process that the nicaraguan political class take the steps outlined in the resolution, which i support.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the words of elena bonner, who was in the european parliament yesterday with her daughter, tatiana jankielewicz, when she was awarded the sakharov prize, still ring out in this chamber. these were great words -- a message to today's europe, to today's world from someone who survived russian totalitarianism, who is the true voice of russia in today's world. we in the european parliament are concerned about the current situation in this great country. the harassment and repression of lawyers and human rights defenders, the threat of violence against them, and the threat to their lives is one of the elements that accompany the current political system in russia. on december 4th, police raided the memorial, a respected human rights institution, for its archiving of the crimes of totalitarianism. i confess that i cannot understand the reasons why the russian authorities confiscated the equipment belonging to the memorial: computers, as well as the archives of the gulag era. i can't explain in any way why such an archive could be a threat to public order in today's russia. we are also concerned about the progress of the trial of anna politkovskaya's killers. we expect not only that this trial will clarify who actually committed this murder, but also who was behind this murder, who ordered this murder, that the court will clarify all the circumstances of this shocking murder. so this process should be open to journalists, to the media, to anyone who wants to monitor its progress. i also believe that the human rights clause should be part of the fundamental agreements between the european union and russia. the real russia is what elena bonner said yesterday in the european parliament.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? murder and assassination continue to be the method used in russia against human rights defenders and anyone who thinks differently. in moscow, on october 28, otto messmer, the jesuit superior and priest victor betancourt from ecuador, was murdered. on august 31st, magomet yevloyev was killed. he was involved in the assassination of the president of the russian federation, in particular, of the president of the council of ministers of the russian federation, in the course of the events of the last week of november 2014. on 4 december, the memorial premises were raided by russian prosecutors, who seized the database of thousands of victims of the stalinist system. the trials of anna politkovskaya and alexander litvinenko show that the russian authorities are trying to prevent them from being given a fair trial, so that we can find out who ordered these crimes. arresting peaceful protesters and abusing conscripts is common practice in russia. i strongly protest the human rights violations in russia. i call on the authorities of this country to stop the persecution of human rights defenders.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. russia is too important to us not to be concerned about what is happening in that country. in communist russia, there was no problem with freedom of speech - there was a problem with freedom after speech. today, the situation seems even worse. for it is not just freedom that is at stake, but how often it is life itself. the resolution draws attention to the alarming number of killings of human rights defenders or for other reasons inconvenient for national or local authorities. those who are behind these murders are allowed to disappear from the country, as in the case of the murder of anna politkovskaya, or they are allowed to hide behind parliamentary immunity, as in the case of the murder of alexander litvinenko. this alarming situation makes it difficult for us to treat russia as a country where there is a real will to adhere to the basic standards of the rule of law.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. today, once again, the russian government is being harshly criticized for tolerating, and perhaps even sometimes inspiring, actions that are far from the civic principles that are the foundation of any civilized country. the kidnapping, intimidation and even murder of human rights activists has caused outrage in russia. but at the same time, this is the government that the public largely supports, despite the apparent destruction of all opposition. most russians like strong power - ruthless power. the russians want to rebuild the russian empire, regardless of the methods and means to achieve it. europe is trying to ignore this, because economic interests are paramount. and yet, a large part of the russian public wants to reintegrate the former soviet republics, even those that are now part of the european union. and it's an even bigger problem than the human rights violations in this country. it's more dangerous, and that's what's being kept quiet.
madam president, commissioner, the resolution speaks directly of the cases which are to be condemned. this resolution must not be an emergency resolution but a constant appeal to the russian authorities, for we condemn their methods of persecution. this resolution is an appeal to the russian people, to the activists, to the russian heroes who will fight for freedom until the time when no one will have to fear being executed for exercising their right to freedom of expression. i think you should convey our appeal in the context of the relations and talks between the russian government and our european commission.
madam president! we are discussing today the human rights violations in the case of the murder of mrs politkovskaya and other incidents in russia that are state terrorism against its own people. we have to realize that the fact that on the one hand russia is violating human rights, that on the other hand russia is becoming more and more imperialist, threatening its neighbors after a very short break that took place in the early 1990s, is the result of the fact that communism has never been formally accounted for and condemned. the reason we speak of germany today as a democratic country and a country that respects people is because hitler was dealt with there. we must today try, here in this chamber and wherever we have influence, to bring about a reckoning of communism, because that will only put a dam on russian terrorism abroad and imperialism abroad.
in writing. – severe human rights violations persist in the ongoing yukos affair. five years after mikhail khodorkovsky’s arrest, he and other yukos officials remain incarcerated under questionable circumstances. of gravest concern is the case of former yukos lawyer vasily alexanyan, held in pre-trial detention since 2006. now near death suffering from aids, lymphatic cancer and tuberculosis, alexanyan has stated that he refused to submit to blackmail to provide false testimony against khodorkovsky in exchange for medical treatment. his previously controllable medical condition therefore developed terminal complications. even with expiry in december 2008 of the statute of limitations for the allegations against him, judicial authorities will only release alexanyan if he pays an unconscionable bail of eur 1.4 million. meanwhile, khodorkovsky has not been paroled, though eligible for release under russian law and practice. investigators have prepared implausible new charges against khodorkovsky and have been holding him in pre-trial detention for nearly two years. the handling of these and several other cases exposes deep weaknesses in russia’s justice system. the release of these people will be a benchmark of russia’s success combating ‘legal nihilism’. the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement should be contingent upon resolution of rule-of-law issues including the issue of political prisoners.
