mr president, following the third round of negotiations between the polisario front, the sole and legitimate representative of the sarawi people, and the kingdom of morocco, which took place on 8 and 9 january under the auspices of the united nations, i would like to stress the need and importance of demanding at this time that the inalienable right of the sarawi people to self-determination, the only just and lasting solution to the conflict, be fully respected, in compliance with international law and un resolutions, and of demanding that the moroccan authorities put an end to their delaying manoeuvres aimed at delaying and, if possible, boycotting the current negotiating process and of demanding that the moroccan authorities put an end to repression in the occupied territories of western sahara and to its colonization.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
- the following is the report by mrs piia-noora kauppi, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the tax treatment of losses in a crossborder context [2007/2144 (ini) ] (a6-0188/2005).
mr president, the different practices in the treatment of tax losses in different countries distort competition in the internal market, are unfair and encourage bad tax practices. we therefore welcome the commission's initiative to propose a minimum level of harmonisation of these rules, hoping that the council can converge on the same. this is an area where better regulation is needed, also to replace the legal uncertainty associated with it. this uncertainty has led to repeated recourse to the court of justice of the european communities and is a factor in increasing uncertainty in economic relations, to the detriment of enterprises and smes. it is indeed of the utmost importance to ensure that different tax practices are compatible with the effective functioning of the internal market. the quality of the report prepared by mrs kauppi has allowed a broad consensus to be reached among the main political groups on the key elements of the report. however, there are aspects of the opinion in its initial version which, being non-essential, could prevent such convergence. in particular, in the view of the socialist group, this procedure is not compatible with the open defence of tax competition practices. such practices encourage artificial movements of companies, capital and people. such movements often leave traces of social, environmental and productive disintegration. on the other hand, fiscal competition in some economies creates serious problems of macroeconomic balance with various consequences, particularly in terms of the quality and quantity of public goods made available by these countries to their citizens. the group of the european socialists believes that, on a matter of such strategic importance, it is in the best interests of the community to present to the commission and the council a position of the european parliament supported by a broad base of support. the european union still has a long way to go in this initiative, particularly in the ccctb, which has been the subject of so much discussion today, in creating a common consolidated tax base for its companies, and we must create the political conditions for this future work. we are not going to be able to achieve convergence on this report. we hope that by the time of the final vote the spirit of compromise between the main political groups will make it possible to put to good use the consensus reached on its essential messages and will not disturb the scope of the final approval, by putting to good use aspects which, although incidental in the present context, divide us politically in an insurmountable way. we must thank the active involvement of several members of the epp group in particular, including your rapporteur, for their spirit of commitment and their spirit of openness, which has enabled us to reach a position which we hope will be consensual on the essential points of this report. thank you very much, mr president.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2008.
the following is the report by mr paolo costa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation no 11 on the elimination of discrimination in transport prices and conditions in implementation of article 79 (3) of the treaty establishing the european economic community and regulation (ec) no 852/2004 of the european parliament and of the council on the hygiene of foodstuffs - transport aspects (com (2007) 0090 - c6-0086/2007 - 2007/0037a (cod)).
mr president, in this one-minute speech i would like to highlight the amendments we have tabled with the aim of explicitly taking into account in this directive the constraints imposed on regions suffering from permanent geographical and natural handicaps, such as the outermost regions, in particular in accordance with the provisions of article 299 (2) of the treaty. we believe that the directive should explicitly recognise the importance of airports for the socioeconomic development of these regions and for territorial cohesion and that appropriate exceptions should therefore be laid down in the directive. the proposal that the rules laid down in the directive should not apply to airports in these regions unless they guarantee the fulfilment of universal public service obligations, for which we hope to have your support, is therefore a proposal.
travel within and to europe is increasing, but it is becoming more and more expensive to travel in and to our continent. the factors that are causing this increase in prices, such as the increase in oil prices, security costs and the reduction of co2 emissions, are persistent and very likely to continue. in this context, we must aim to stimulate a genuinely competitive airport market, which can only be viable where there is transparency and predictability. these are, i believe, the main virtues of this proposal for a directive, to the drafting of which our colleague mr stockmann has made a major contribution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to adopt a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2012. the establishment of an independent national regulatory body, which will only intervene in the event of a final disagreement on a decision on airport charges, also contributes to the smooth functioning of the market. finally, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that the definition of criteria for transparency and rigour in the use of fees for prefinancing new airport infrastructure projects is at the same time in the public interest of airport development and new airport infrastructure and also in the interests of passengers, that is to say, consumers, whose interests must be given our primary attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank and congratulate mr ulrich stockmann for his openness and ability to promote compromise between the various interests involved in the preparation of this very good report, particularly on the outermost regions. i support the lines of the commission proposal and i support this report because it guarantees the non-discrimination of airport charges, except where it is compatible and necessary in the light of the treaty, in particular with regard to the provisions relating to the outermost regions, and there must be a mandatory procedure for consultation between managing bodies and users. that any discrimination in fees will be transparent and based on clear criteria, taking into account the principle of territorial cohesion in the long term. our proposal is that future changes will be possible for objective and transparent reasons of general interest, in particular as regards universal access. that member states ensure, and i quote, 'that airports charge the same fare for the same service, and that airport users may be granted discounts on the fare based on the quality of a service used, provided that all airport users can benefit from that discount on public, transparent and objective conditions, may also grant discounts to users opening new routes in accordance with competition law... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague mr csaba őry, on his balanced report. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of coordinating and improving the various social security systems in force in the european union, necessarily adapting these systems where this is necessary. it is perfectly clear that a number of amendments which we consider indispensable have been tabled in such a way as to allow a reasoned discussion and, moreover, they are part of a process which has facilitated or would facilitate the adoption at first reading of the csaba őry report. it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the problems of social security in europe go far beyond the problems which this report and the regulatory practices which are associated with it are intended to solve. but the point here is to take account of the changes in social security legislation in countries such as ireland, hungary, poland, the netherlands and austria, with the aim of adequate modernisation and adaptation. as we know, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion on the implementation of the new regulatory system, and in particular the negotiation of the implementing regulations, is progressing in parallel, and here too we welcome the rapporteur's position, and we understand and share the view that we support only a small number of the essential amendments, as we have expressed in committee. the amendments are therefore intended to provide the necessary legal certainty to enable the new regulation to enter into force in the most appropriate way. i have, however, learned of the withdrawal of the amendment referred to by csaba őry, for the reasons he has explained. finally, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, commissioner dimas, the most important thing is to contribute also in the field of social security to the proper application of the principle of workers' mobility within the european union, reaffirmed at the lisbon summit and during the 2006 european year of mobility. without such labour mobility and without adequate coordination of the social security system, european workers will be limited in their possibilities of moving around labour markets. that is what we do not want, and that is why we support this report.
in this minute of intervention i would like to stress that we believe that the first priority of the european union in relation to children should be to assess the consequences of its policies for the failure to fulfil or the fulfilment of children's rights, in particular with regard to the rapid and significant reduction of child poverty by giving all children equal opportunities. in this sense, and for example, i ask: what are the consequences of the european union's monetary policy and its objective of price stability, or rather wage moderation, for the failure to respect the rights of the child? what are the consequences of the european union's so-called flexicurity, the liberalisation of the labour market, the facilitation of dismissals, the precariousness of employment relationships, the increase in working time and the flexibility of working hours for the failure to respect the rights of children? what are the consequences of the current european union policies promoting the liberalisation and privatisation of public services including health and education for the failure to respect children's rights? here are some examples of what would be the most appropriate, necessary and urgent european union mainstreaming of children's rights.
mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, violence against those who cannot defend themselves is particularly reprehensible. violence against children is especially hateful. we need community legislation prohibiting all forms of violence, whether physical, psychological or sexual. i have already referred to the 2003 unicef figures, which show that in some community countries, such as france, about three children die every week as a result of abuse and neglect, and in others, such as germany and the united kingdom, the figure is two per week. i welcome the commitment of the member states and the institutions of the european union to implementing policies relating to children, which has been increasing in recent years. however, existing legislation, policies and structures remain insufficient to address the full range of issues that arise in relation to their protection, whether they are victims of poverty, trafficking, domestic violence, sexual abuse, pornography, child labour or the drama of child soldiers that persists in the 21st century. i therefore congratulate vice-president franco frattini on this initiative which demonstrates that there is the will to make this issue a priority for action by the european union and to create a general union strategy to effectively promote and safeguard the rights of the child in the context of the union's internal and external policies. i also welcome the fact that the new treaty of lisbon will incorporate the rights of the child into the union's objectives by creating a new legal basis for the defence of these rights. we must improve prevention, information campaigns and strengthen social rights to support victims. it is also necessary to strengthen cross-border operations against child pornography websites with a view to closing down such websites and dismantling such criminal networks. the internet offers children fantastic opportunities to communicate and obtain information, but we must ensure that they do so in a safe way.
in writing. - although it contains some aspects which improve the commission's proposal, the report is nevertheless imbued with and an integral part of the process of liberalising air transport in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the transparency of airport charges. however, we disagree with any policy which seeks to liberalise and privatise a strategic public service such as air transport, in this case promoting 'a truly competitive airport market' or integrating principles such as user-pays and profitability into a service which should be public. in fact, the so-called 'regulatory role' of the public sector is even being removed by the creation of 'independent regulatory bodies'. the privatisation experiments in the sector have not generated any added value in the services provided, they have encouraged the destruction of jobs and the degradation of workers' rights and, in some cases, technical and operational problems. we regret the rejection of our proposals to include in the directive the recognition of the constraints faced by regions suffering from permanent geographical and natural handicaps, such as the outermost regions, and to establish appropriate exceptions for the fulfilment of universal public service obligations.
in writing. − the rotterdam convention on the prior information and consent procedure for certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides in international trade was adopted in september 1998 and entered into force on 24 february 2004. regulation (ec) no 304/2003 on the export and import of dangerous chemicals gives effect to the rotterdam convention. the commission considered it necessary to bring an action against the council and the european parliament before the court of justice for not agreeing to the change in the legal basis (environment instead of common commercial policy). in its judgment of 10 january 2006, the court of justice annulled the regulation because it was to have a dual legal basis: article 133 and article 175 (1) of the treaty and ruled that the effects of that regulation would be maintained until the adoption of a new regulation based on the appropriate legal bases. the european commission has put forward a new proposal for a regulation based on the above-mentioned dual legal basis. in today's first reading vote, the european parliament approved a number of amendments to the commission proposal which will now be negotiated with the council. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. − the european automotive industry, which accounts for around 3% of eu gdp and 7% of industrial output in the union, is one of the most important economic sectors producing around one third of world output. it is also one of the eu's main export sectors, with r & d investment equivalent to 4% of its turnover. the sector is one of the largest employers, with over 2 million direct jobs and 10 million indirect jobs, and is a key factor in europe's economic, social and cultural life. but the sector faces serious challenges. rapid technological progress, coupled with fierce international competition, is driving rapid change. in addition, this sector is subject to significant social expectations, particularly in terms of the environment and road safety. this close interaction between industry, the environment, energy and transport results in one of the most regulated areas in the eu, covered by some 80 directives and 115 unece regulations. however, not all the proposals in this report deserve our support. there is too much emphasis on defending the internal market and competition and too little attention to social and labour aspects and the different levels of development in the member states.
in writing. − the future competitiveness of the european automotive sector is of the utmost importance and therefore the eu's efforts should continue to follow a long-term logic, organised around investments in research and development, improving the functioning of the internal market through the necessary legislation and simplifying administrative procedures, thus making them less costly and faster. the report's guidelines point to an integrated environmental approach, combining new engine technologies, the use of cleaner fuels and additional efforts in the field of traffic management, driving behaviour and infrastructure, to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i consider these aspects to be fundamental and the financing of the necessary investments should focus on public-private partnerships as a new instrument for industrial research and technological development. finally, there is the international dimension, which requires urgent measures to improve access to markets, particularly asian markets, through multilateral negotiations and bilateral trade agreements. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the cars21 initiative.
in writing. - unfortunately, the amendments tabled by our group, including some positions opposed to those which were finally adopted, were rejected. this was the case with the opinion on the decision of the court of justice of the european communities in the marks & spencer case, which constitutes an excessive interference with the right of member states to avoid weakening their tax systems. in cross-border situations, tax competence should be distributed equitably between the member states concerned, avoiding double compensation of losses and risks of tax evasion. it also considers that there is a risk that, by allowing cross-border loss compensation, companies may tend to ensure that their profits are taxed in countries with low rates rather than in those with high rates. the possibility of compensating for cross-border losses can therefore only be justified in the case of genuinely interconnected parts of the same undertaking or, in other words, when those parts are economically and organisationally integrated. above all, the conditions for adequate and equitable taxation, which prevents tax evasion, which also ensures the functioning of public services and a fairer distribution of income, must be safeguarded.
in writing. - the report adopted by the committee on employment takes up important aspects of the fight for better living and working conditions, with greater protection of health and safety, but unfortunately, on the proposal of the ppe, several proposals were amended and paragraph 59 was rejected, which underlined that permanent employment is an important factor for health and safety at work. hence our final vote of abstention. parliament was concerned that the number of occupational accidents and diseases was not decreasing uniformly, given that certain categories of workers (e.g. migrants, precarious workers, women, young and elderly workers) and certain member states had rates of occupational accidents and diseases far above the eu average, and called on the commission to give priority in its strategy to activities and/or sectors involving particular risks. however, it is positive that the paragraph has been adopted which considers that excessive working hours and insufficient rest periods are a key factor in the increase in the levels of accidents and illnesses at work and calls for a proper balance between work and family life.
in writing. the slovenian presidency will continue to follow closely the agenda of the german presidency, giving priority to the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, as was clear in the debate, and as is expressly stated in its programme. we know that the political elites in the european union want the treaty to be ratified by all the member states before the 2009 elections. that is why they are pressing hard for no referendums, except in ireland, where they are constitutionally binding, making clear their understanding of democracy and bringing citizens closer together: only when they are not at risk of citizens speaking out against their views and interests. then, what they call the "second cycle of the lisbon strategy" appears as a high priority, to deepen liberalizations and attacks on public services, social and labour rights. we are also concerned that the developments in kosovo will be another threat to peace and development in europe with a possible unilateral declaration of independence. however, the serious social problems of unemployment, precarious work, poverty and the worsening of social and territorial inequalities remain unresolved. we will continue to fight for a break with these neoliberal policies and for another europe of social justice, peace and social progress.
in writing. the slovenian presidency of the council marks the beginning of the third act in the farce orchestrated by the forces promoting federalist, neoliberal and militarist integration in europe, namely the eu - with germany in the lead - to impose a previously rejected treaty by avoiding national referendums. they say that there is no justification for holding referendums: - because there is a 'broad consensus' in each country on the proposed treaty, particularly in national parliaments. but one of the main lessons of the referendums in france and the netherlands was that they brought to light the profound contradiction between the popular will and the so-called 'parliamentary majorities'. - because ratification by parliaments is as legitimate and democratic as ratification by referendum. but how can we understand the claim that holding a referendum in portugal would increase the risks of the treaty not coming into force? what they fear is that the outcome of a referendum will be different from what they want, so they don't hold them. - because the proposed treaty is different from the one previously rejected and there is a 'substantial change'. they don't say which one, though. but are not its promoters themselves claiming that the substance is maintained? the statements of giscard d'estaing are read. it's fear that moves them.
in writing. − the european commission considers that, in order to meet the management needs of the common agricultural policy, it is important to have information on land use and the state of land and crops. it therefore presented remote sensing as a research method to obtain easier access to the information contained in the classic systems of agricultural statistics and forecasts. in this proposal it took account of a pilot project on remote sensing techniques under council decision 1445/2000/ec, which has since been launched. the commission considers that this project has enabled the agro-meteorological system for forecasting crop yields and monitoring the state of the land and crops (mars) to reach an advanced stage of development. the commission is now proposing to continue these remote sensing applications in agriculture for the period 2008-2013 in the field of agricultural market monitoring. the project would be implemented from 1 january 2008 for a period of six years. remote sensing applications would thus be a tool at the commission's disposal for the implementation and monitoring of the common agricultural policy, although with information that could be useful to the member states. the question is how it will be used and for whom. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - while agreeing in general terms with the european commission's proposal, i am voting in favour of the graefe zu baringdorf report, since it introduces some pertinent considerations. i understand, for example, the rapporteur's concern about the impossibility of comparing data between different member states because of the different frequency of analyses. i also approve the proposal to create an inventory and consolidate the spatial data infrastructure and its websites, as well as to improve the website of the agriculture unit to make the data public.
in writing. - this vote refers to the second reading of the proposal initially put forward by the european commission in 2002. the aim of these commitments is to reach agreement with the council on a text which aims to repeal the current directive 87/102/eec and to introduce a common legal framework for consumer credit agreements. the aim is to facilitate the opening up of national markets and to promote the granting of credit for crossborder consumption, in the name of strengthening competition and 'improving' the internal market. among other things, it defines the formula for calculating the annual percentage rate of charge (aprc), the conditions for early repayment and the information to be provided to consumers in respect of credit agreements. we voted in favour of the proposals which sought to improve consumer protection, which is particularly important for portugal in a context where household indebtedness is constantly increasing, exceeding 124% of disposable income, and where the scandalous profits of the main financial groups are being recorded. we voted against all the proposals which aim to facilitate the opening up of financial markets and facilitate crossborder credit, which aims to remove barriers to entry for the major financial groups and not to protect consumers.
in writing. − a common legal framework for consumer credit should establish clear, simple and concise rules in order to provide the european added value in terms of strengthening the internal market. i would therefore like to congratulate this parliament today on the positive agreement reached under this legislation. i consider it of the greatest importance to open up national markets to the consumer credit sector, thereby strengthening competition, with very positive consequences for those who use it. with this new proposal the eu clearly favours competition between lenders and introduces the necessary transparency in the dissemination of pre-contractual and contractual information on credit supply, which i consider to be essential for consumer protection, and also allows for a foreseeable lowering of interest rates by increasing the existing supply, especially in smaller markets. the credit ceilings set by the agreement are also a very positive element for the portuguese market. i am convinced that the new framework will provide more credit opportunities and that it is now necessary to ensure adequate protection and solvency of consumers by preventing excessive exposure to over-indebtedness in the context of a sound social policy. the advantages are to be enjoyed and not to be covered up by problems with other problems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the roberta angelilli report 'towards an eu strategy on the rights of the child' because it is important to draw attention to the fact that many instruments adopted at eu level affect, directly or indirectly, the rights of the child. i therefore consider it essential to create a legislative framework which will make it possible to recognise the rights of the child and codify them from a legal point of view. in this context, this report makes an important contribution to ensuring respect for the rights of the child, in that it advocates community legislation prohibiting all forms of violence against children and stresses the importance of areas such as education, health, adoption, the fight against poverty and discrimination. it should also be noted that the new lisbon treaty provides a legal basis for the rights of the child, which are now included in the objectives of the european union.
in writing. - this report, with almost 200 articles, includes aspects we support and others we disagree with. our vote must be understood on the basis of this assumption. however, we cannot help but point out that the report fails to identify the causes of the situations it sometimes diagnoses. the report does not criticise the eu's neoliberal policies - whitewashing those responsible - which are the cause of the poverty of millions of people, including children. policies which are at the root of the profound and unacceptable social inequalities which are the result of exploitation and capitalist concentration. policies which promote wage restraint, with the loss of value of workers' wages; facilitating dismissals and the precariousness of employment ties; increasing working time and the flexibility of working hours; or the liberalization and privatization of public services. policies which have profound and negative consequences for the incomes and living conditions of workers, their families and, therefore, their children. respect for and full enjoyment of the rights of the child requires, among other things, a fair distribution of wealth, jobs with rights, decent wages, the reduction of working time, the development of strong public systems of social security, health and universal and free education.
in writing. - in the context of the debate on the construction of a european strategy on the rights of the child, i consider it a priority to emphasise the concept of 'children's interest', not as an opposition to the idea of rights, but as a complementary concept and also as a guiding principle of such a strategy. threats to children's rights are, both throughout the world and across europe, of different nature and degree. while in some places the priority is to address poverty and its causes or the use of child soldiers and sexual exploitation, in other cases it is a matter of ensuring the right of access to health care, protection against sexual abuse, trafficking in children or the right to be adopted in good time and under transparent rules, and the value of the role of the family. in some cases, however, the criterion should be the 'best interests of the child'. this is the standard, the criterion, by which the usefulness, necessity and goodness of any decision, legislation or intervention should be judged. i therefore believe that the most important thing in formulating this strategy is to commit ourselves to this idea, to which the lists of rights, which are not always reasonable, feasible or appropriate, must be subordinated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the doris pack report on 'adult education: it is never too late to learn' because i believe that adult education, through the acquisition of essential skills, is crucial to achieving the lisbon strategy's objectives of more economic growth, more competitiveness and more social inclusion. on the other hand, and in addition, i also agree with the view that lifelong learning is fundamental to responding to the current challenges of economic and social change, the rapid transition to a knowledge-based society and demographic changes resulting from an ageing population.
in writing. - it is important to pay more attention to adult education. the adult education agenda needs to be given a new impetus as their participation in education and training is not sufficient to reach the benchmark target of 12.5% participation in adult education by 2010. but the quality of adult education needs to be ensured, with particular attention to the various dimensions of quality in learning, notably the development of educators, quality assurance mechanisms and teaching methods and materials. as the report states, adult education is an essential component of lifelong learning and is a very complex field. adults need to link learning with their knowledge, experience and cultural background. finally, it is important to emphasise gender equality in lifelong learning programmes so that both men and women can benefit equally from the opportunities offered by lifelong learning, and to call for the use of all available instruments to ensure equality between men and women in preparing adult education policy measures in collaboration with the european institute for gender equality.
mr frattini, ladies and gentlemen, since 1998 the european parliament has rejected all the initiatives put to it when it was consulted on detailed questions concerning europol. it did so for reasons of consistency, while europol continued to operate in an intergovernmental context without being subject to democratic and judicial control. this initiative is the answer to what we have been asking for all along in this house and is intended to make europol a union agency, financed from the community budget, and to enable us to strengthen our democratic control role. although this proposal is the subject of a great deal of controversy in the council, i do not think we should accept any further postponement. the european parliament has an obligation to show its support for the commission's initiative to transform europol into a union agency. the current legal framework of europol, an international convention, makes it difficult to update or change its powers, and takes years. the increase in new security threats, such as terrorism, which pose new challenges to europol, requires a new approach. the importance of this decision is that it should not only put europol on an equal footing with eurojust and the european police college but also make it more effective by extending its mandate to crime not strictly related to organised crime and by giving greater flexibility to its mechanisms. at the same time, greater transparency and democratic and judicial control must be ensured. i therefore support the excellent report by mr díaz de mera and the important amendments he has tabled, particularly on data protection. i would like to express my respect and solidarity with mr díaz de mera for the excellent report he has produced and for the person he is, especially when some members have tried to unfairly diminish his work by importing national struggles which have already been fully answered by the spanish supreme court of justice.
i can give you thirty seconds to conclude.
i was informed that you had already made a speech under this catch-the-eye procedure today and, therefore, in view of the rules which have been established to diversify the speeches of members as much as possible, i have opted for the choice i have made, which obviously excluded you this time, but i repeat that other opportunities will arise and that mr van orden will then have the opportunity to speak. anyway, your record here is done and surely it will be respected. we have to move on or we won't have time for questions. i'm sorry, mr. deputy, but we cannot continue this conversation. the question of the future of the community is not a question of the future of the community.
your protest is noted, mr. deputy.
the question period is over (b6-00001/2008). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by marian harkin (h-0961/2007) subject: the european parliament's resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: youth in the council how does the council intend to implement its priorities in the youth field presented to the council's 'youth' group in december 2007, in particular as regards the role of volunteering?
question no 2 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0963/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: multilateralism and bilateral agreements does the council consider that the proliferation of bilateral trade agreements by the united states, the european union and other international actors is compatible with the principles of multilateralism which inspire the world trade organisation?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0967/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' subject: promotion of family-friendly policies what measures does the council intend to take to promote family-friendly policies and how does it intend to strengthen the european alliance for the family, decided by the council in march 2007?
question no 4 by georgios papastamkos (h-0969/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: initiatives of the slovenian presidency on the new approach to neighbourhood policy and energy the new approach to neighbourhood policy and energy is one of the initiatives of the slovenian presidency. given that these two issues are closely linked, particularly with regard to the union's strategy for energy self-sufficiency and independence of neighbouring countries, can the council state how it intends to structure the programme of initiatives of the presidency? how do you envisage the future of energy relations in the wider balkan region?
since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 5 by mr colm burke (h-0971/2007) subject: the european parliament's proposal to establish a european union agency for fundamental rights is not yet adopted subject: eu peacekeeping mission in chad and the central african republic (car) - shortage of helicopters and medical equipment can the council state whether the member states have already made arrangements to provide additional resources for the eu peacekeeping mission, including helicopters and medical equipment, in order to avoid any unnecessary delay in the deployment of irish and other eu member states troops in the region concerned? given that, according to general henri bentégeat, chairman of the eu military committee, the mission in question still lacks certain means on the ground, namely helicopters, medical equipment and logistical resources, was it actually proposed, following the 'force generation' conference held in brussels in november, by the participating member states and others, to provide additional troops and equipment? is the council prepared to strengthen the member states' will to ensure that, at eu level, humanitarian aid to the region in question is increased? what action is the council taking with regard to the climate of internal instability in chad following the recent armed clashes on 26 november 2007 in which the chadian army is reported to have killed hundreds of rebel fighters? how does the council intend to ensure that the ceasefire and the peace agreement between the chadian rebel groups and the government of president idriss deby are restored? question no 6 by mr liam aylward (h-1016/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: european union peacekeeping mission in chad can the council state the exact timetable for the overall deployment of the european union peacekeeping force to chad and the composition of the contingent of troops?
question no 7 by gay mitchell (h-0973/2007) subject: the european parliament has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens subject: protection of eu citizens in muslim countries in november last year, a british teacher was accused of insulting islam in sudan for allowing her class of seven-year-olds to name a teddy bear mohammed. if convicted, he could be subject to a sentence of 40 lashes, a large fine or imprisonment. how can the eu do more to protect innocent eu citizens who find themselves in such terrible situations in muslim countries?
question no 8 by avril doyle (h-0975/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the kurdish minority in the west bank subject: biodiversity and climate change according to the fourth assessment report of the un intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), during this century 'the resilience of many ecosystems is likely to be exceeded due to an unprecedented combination of climate change and other global factors' (e.g. the spread of infectious diseases). the ipcc estimates that approximately 60% of the ecosystems assessed are currently being used in an unsustainable way and are showing increasing signs of degradation. this alone could be the cause of widespread biodiversity loss. at eu level, the commission's green paper on adaptation to climate change recalls that 'some 20%-30% of animal and plant species identified so far are very likely to be at increased risk of extinction if global average temperatures exceed 1.5-2.5°c'. what concrete measures does the slovenian presidency intend to take to give priority to the gothenburg objective of sustaining biodiversity loss by 2010 and combating widespread biodiversity loss due to climate change and other global factors?
question no 9 by mr jim higgins (h-0977/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: moving beyond gdp can the council indicate how it intends to work with the commission's proposal to go beyond gdp as an indicator of regional cohesion and also indicate whether it has reached any definitive measures to be included in the future to provide a more accurate measure of a region's performance? mrs mcguinness takes responsibility for the question that was originally put by mr jim higgins.
question no 10 by mairead mcguinness (h-0979/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: investigation into host institutions in bulgaria the bbc recently broadcast a documentary entitled "bulgaria's abandoned children" which describes the shocking conditions in which children living in a foster home in mogilino, bulgaria, find themselves. the producer of the show has publicly stated that this institution is not the worst case in bulgaria. it is felt that, although it is clear that there is a problem with the institutionalisation of children and young people with disabilities, this problem does not seem to have been addressed effectively. in view of the eu charter of fundamental rights and the fact that the european year of equal opportunities for all has just ended, can the council make a statement on this very sensitive issue?
question no 11 by mr bernd posselt (h-0982/2007) subject: the european parliament's resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: date of negotiations with macedonia does the council consider that it would be possible to indicate a date for the opening of accession negotiations with macedonia later this year, i.e. during the slovenian or french presidency?
question no 12 is withdrawn. question no 13 by mr nikolaos vakalis (h-0990/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to establish a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states subject: reduction of vat on environmentally friendly energy products and techniques does the council not agree that it is necessary to adapt community legislation on value added tax (vat) so as to also allow the use of the reduced rate of vat on renewable energy technologies and applications and the improvement of energy efficiency, in addition to what is currently provided for gas and electricity consumption? is there a timetable for taking action in this regard? what action can we expect from the council in this area and when?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the rapporteur. - i should like to begin by thanking the members and staff of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy for the support and the important contributions they have given, particularly through the proposals they have put forward for this report and which have made it possible for it to be voted on unanimously. it was a work that took place over several months, which also included a parliamentary hearing with important contributions from members of the two parliamentary committees and external guests, especially social organisations. with this report we aim to give greater visibility to the role of women in industry, where on average more than 14% of employed women in the european union work. in some countries this percentage is over 25%, as in bulgaria and the czech republic, and in others it is around 20%, as in portugal, greece and hungary. we know that in some industrial sectors women make up the majority of workers, as in textiles, clothing and footwear, in food, cork, cabling, electrical and electronic equipment, while their participation in high-technology areas is still low. this requires some differentiated approaches, but with a common objective of promoting women working in these areas, ensuring non-discriminatory practices in access to employment and recruitment, respect for equal pay, the creation of career opportunities, vocational training, good working conditions, better pay and the appreciation of motherhood and fatherhood as fundamental social values. the need to ensure employment with rights for women working in industry and to continue to facilitate their access to work in this important production sector also implies greater attention to the situation of the various industries in the european union, the challenges they face and the appropriate responses that need to be found, including in international trade and in monitoring the import situation of more sensitive products such as textiles. special attention is also paid to the restructuring and relocation of multinational companies, which particularly affect women's employment and increase their unemployment, especially in regions where there are no employment alternatives. combating the persisting wage discrimination affecting women workers, including indirect discrimination, requires further development of a methodology for job analysis that guarantees equal pay for men and women, that values people and professions and, at the same time, dignifies work as a structural element for increasing the productivity, competitiveness and quality of enterprises and for improving the lives of workers. it is therefore important to encourage initiatives that help to develop positive actions and human resources policies in companies that promote equality between men and women, also by promoting awareness-raising and training practices that allow the promotion, transfer and incorporation of successful practices. i would like to highlight some projects supported by the equal programme, such as those i had the opportunity to meet in portugal, which should also deserve the full attention of the european commission to ensure its continuity and expansion. as the report stresses, collective bargaining and contracting are of fundamental importance in combating discrimination against women, particularly in the areas of access to employment, wages, health and safety at work, career progression and vocational training. but the member states and the commission have special responsibilities and an important role to play in promoting equality and combating all discrimination, in ensuring employment with rights and in combating job insecurity which particularly affects women. it therefore calls on them to act, whether by setting high standards for the protection of health at work which take account of the gender dimension and in particular maternity, whether by the organisation and timing of work, which respect family life, whether by the creation of effective monitoring mechanisms, the enforcement of labour rights and freedom of association, or also by ensuring universal access to good public social security and affordable social services, in particular day care, childcare and support for the elderly.
mr president, the beijing platform for action states that without the active participation of women and the incorporation of their perspectives at all levels of decision-making, the objectives of equality, development and peace cannot be achieved. moreover, to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, greater participation of women in the labour market is necessary. with women accounting for 59% of graduates, it is not understood that most of the new jobs for women are part-time, sometimes insecure and precarious, poorly paid and with little prospect of career progression. this report by mrs figueiredo, which i congratulate, contains two proposals which i would like to stress: the first is the promotion of women's entrepreneurship, but considering that 61% of women take into account family circumstances when considering starting a business, compared to only 49% of men, measures are needed to facilitate the reconciliation of professional, family and personal life. the other proposal concerns long working hours. it is important that the commission should promote a study on the negative consequences of long stays at the workplace, consequences at the family, personal and social level, such as children being left alone for long hours, which often leads to school failure and criminality. the member states should also be encouraged to monitor more closely companies which force their employees to work overtime and should be subject to very heavy penalties.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would first of all like to thank the members and the commissioner for their speeches and for the contribution they have made to this debate. but of course i am also calling here - as some have already done - for more practical interventions, that is, for this change in our proposals to be felt on the ground, in the life of companies, in the life of working women, in the life of families, because it is not acceptable - and several people have said this here - that after 30 years of a directive providing for equal rights in the area of pay we still have this brutal difference in average wages between men and women working in industry of 30% which is double the general average wage difference in the european union. we cannot therefore allow this situation to continue for another 30 years, and that is where this appeal to the commission and the member states ends, so that concrete measures are taken, concrete measures which could be legislative, concrete measures which could be more control, but also concrete measures which are more promoting equal rights and equal opportunities, more promoting this reality which must be put into practice in education and training, but also more fighting against stereotypes - which has been emphasized here - but also the problem of the organization of working hours and working time and of effective jobs must respond better to these women's rights, but also to the right to motherhood and fatherhood as fundamental social values of the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this oral amendment is supported by members from five political groups and also by one member and seeks to amend the first part as follows: 'it underlines the need for retraining for women who have interrupted their careers in order to improve their employability' and then goes on to 'urge member states to increase lifelong learning opportunities'. this is the proposal we are putting to the vote.
in writing. − i clearly supported the creation (in february 2007) of the fundamental rights agency because i believe that this agency can make a significant contribution to increasing the coherence and cohesion of eu policy on fundamental rights. it was officially established on 1 march 2007, but is still awaiting the basic elements for becoming operational, namely the appointment of its director and the adoption of a multiannual framework. this initiative aims to establish a multiannual framework which should guide the agency's work over the next five years, defining the thematic areas in which it should act. i therefore support the enormous effort that the rapporteur - mr cashman - has made to facilitate the negotiations and i hope, as he does, that this will encourage the commission and the council to conclude as soon as possible the discussion on this multiannual framework and, in parallel, the process of selecting candidates for the post of director. the european citizens will not understand any more delays that prevent this fundamental rights agency from becoming fully operational.
in writing. - in addition to the aspects we have criticised and have already had the opportunity to highlight, as the eu fundamental rights agency becomes operational and over time, it becomes clear what is actually intended by it. the debate on the definition of objectives and priorities for its 'multiannual framework' 2007-12 has revealed the narrowness of its thematic areas: racism, xenophobia and intolerance; discrimination on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability or sexual orientation or of persons belonging to minorities; compensation for victims, crime prevention and related aspects relevant to the security of citizens; protection of children, including children's rights; immigration and integration of migrants; asylum; visas and border control; participation in the democratic functioning of the union; human rights issues related to the information society; and access to an efficient and independent judiciary. the ep added extreme poverty and social exclusion, but for example, social rights, including workers' rights, were not considered a priority at a time when fundamental social rights are being called into question by eu policies.
in writing. - the proposal for a treaty has not yet been ratified, nor has the proposal to adopt by qualified majority the regulations on the structure, operations, field of action and tasks of europol, as the eu institutions are busy transforming the european police office into a european agency. in addition to our fundamental criticism of this process, we are concerned about:- the possibility that the processing of 'special categories of data relating to ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions, party or trade union membership, sexual orientation or health' will not be excluded; - the failure to adopt safeguards for the protection of personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation at eu level and in relations with third countries, in particular the usa (e.g. data on air passengers); - failure to guarantee access by a citizen to data concerning him or her or even to inform him whether his or her personal data are being processed by europol; - the lack of clarification on the control by the national parliaments; this would constitute a flagrant violation of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens.
in writing. the european parliament's own-initiative report reflects the real ambitions of the eu's so-called 'european neighbourhood policy', particularly for the south caucasus. it is a matter of explaining the geo-strategic agenda in its political, economic and military aspects, that is, the eu's plan of intervention in this crucial area, accentuating the pressure on china and russia. this translates into more interference and manipulation of the conflicts that arose as a result of the dismantling of the ussr, in order to try to ensure the dominance of the great powers and financial-economic groups of the eu over this region, also highlighting the inter-capitalist rivalries. it is enough to see the 'recommendations' as the encouragement to conclude free trade agreements and pursue further liberalisation or the clear call for intervention by 'supporting' the action of 'civil society', ensuring that ' (eu!) funds are distributed... without state interference'. the approach to the energy issue is particularly significant, stressing the importance of energy corridors around russia and the dominance of infrastructure and energy sources. finally, a note on the inconsistency between 'its unconditional support for the territorial integrity and inviolability of georgia's internationally recognised borders' and the appeal to the principles of the united nations charter, when it does not do so for serbia.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the ep is pushing for 'market economy reforms', encouraging 'harmonisation and further liberalisation measures' and supporting 'the creation of a free trade area accordingly'. the eu would have a 'major role to play' in 'encouraging the necessary measures for the region'. the ep stresses the fundamental importance of establishing and developing good neighbourly relations between the countries of the black sea region and also with their neighbours, based on mutual respect, territorial integrity, non-interference in each other's internal affairs and the prohibition of the use of force or the threat of force as fundamental principles for the promotion of regional cooperation, and calls for the promotion of 'european values', 'regardless of the degree of willingness shown by the associated governments'. a contradiction/inconsistency between what he says (to others) and what he does. the eu demands that others respect what it itself does not respect. what cynicism.
in writing. - the present statement of vote is to stress that, while we appreciate the mediation efforts undertaken by the neighbouring countries, the southern african development community and the african union, we believe that it is up to the kenyan people to seek and define their own path. it is up to the kenyan people to find the solutions to overcome the current situation in their country. in this sense we reject any attempt to interfere with the eu, as indicated and proposed in the resolution, particularly in view of the objectives proclaimed by the eu in its 'strategy for africa' and the framework of inter-imperialist concertation/rivalry in relation to this continent, which it also highlights and which is so much felt in this region. finally, just a note on the omission in the resolution of the degradation and serious socioeconomic situation in that country - which is at the root of the expression of popular discontent in the elections - and the profound responsibilities of the neoliberal policies promoted, in particular, by the international financial institutions, by the big capitalist powers and their transnational corporations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of paragraph 20 of the report on the role of women in industry because it is important that the commission should promote a study on the negative consequences of long stays at work, at personal, family and social level: children spend a lot of time alone, left to themselves, which is often the cause of school failure and crime... member states should exercise greater control over companies which force workers to stay at the workplace beyond the hours laid down by law and impose heavy penalties.
in writing. - today, my report on the role of women in industry was adopted by the european parliament in plenary, which is very positive, although i regret that some minor amendments were made. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from discrimination, including the right to strike, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to strike. it stressed the importance of collective bargaining in combating discrimination against women, particularly in access to employment, wages, working conditions, career progression and vocational training. it stressed the importance of community programmes to encourage the creation of brands, the protection of the indication of the origin of production and the external promotion of community products in sectors dominated by women. finally, it is very important that the right of workers to intervene in the restructuring of companies has been recognised, and that their structures, in particular the european works councils, have been given full access to information and decisive intervention, including the right of veto.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the question of human rights in the middle east, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter. this resolution also emphasizes, in addition to negative factors, some positive factors which i think it is important to emphasize, such as the commitment to end the state of emergency as from this year, in a few months, as well as cooperation to end the smuggling of arms into gaza and, above all, what i think is essential, is to take advantage of the availability of the egyptian authorities so that they are actually brought to correct situations of really serious violations of which i would like to emphasize the continued imprisonment of the former candidate for the presidency of the republic of egypt and for which i would like to renew an appeal for an end to this situation which is in some way consistent with the basic principles of a state that defends human rights and to which egypt has successively spoken and committed itself.
mr president, have all eu member states been consistent in the political message delivered to iran to back the efforts of the eu three and mr solana on the nuclear file by living up to the imposition of the economic sanctions? and have eu member states and you, mr solana, been pressing the bush administration to talk to iran directly, not just about iraq, but about the nuclear file in particular? or are you of the view that there is no point, that it will wait for the next us administration?
it was during the portuguese presidency that the council agreed to open the postal services market fully at eu level from 31 december 2010, applying the competition rules to what should be a public service, it is said, with a view to creating an internal market for postal services. "fine, man", says the prime minister of the portuguese government. however, this decision is a serious blow to the public postal services, in particular by abolishing the areas reserved for them, promoting a dynamic aimed at their dismantling and their subsequent handing over to the transnational corporations and their profitability logic, including at the expense of the public purse, putting the rights of the population and workers in the sector in question. if there were any doubts as to the real meaning of the inclusion of the so-called protocol on services of general interest in the proposed treaty, here is the example of this directive to dispel them, that is, the continuation of the process of dismantling and destroying public services, calling into question the ownership and provision by public entities managed and controlled in a democratic way. that is why we are tabled the proposal to reject this directive.
i congratulate my colleagues ferber and simpson on the quality of the report and all the colleagues and parties involved on the openness shown during the negotiating process. this liberalization of the postal services market is still far from achieving a competitive market where the biggest winners will be consumers and businesses, and i therefore argued that the path followed by the commission may not sufficiently guarantee the universality of the service. i therefore supported the position of the shadow rapporteur brian simpson on the need to ensure universal service and the existence of a compensation fund, as well as the commitment to open postal provision up to 50 grams by 2010 or in special cases, such as with the new member states with outermost regions by 31 december 2012. i welcome the special provisions in respect of these states, but i would stress that they may not be sufficient and, if they are, will require additional measures. on the employment front, i welcome the addition introduced earlier, with regard to the obligation to report on the overall employment trend in the sector, the working conditions applied by all operators within a member state and any measures. i welcome the common position reached, but i support the amendments tabled by my colleagues savary, el khadraoui and ayala sender, among others, and by my group in this house, because they reinforce the need for a deliberate process of liberalization that strengthens equal access, development and employment for all. for all these reasons, i urge the house to support this report and the council and to support the position of this parliament.
in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, parliament recognises the political importance of the bali conference. scientific knowledge has given rise to the political will to act, and by 2009 all countries, whether developed, emerging or developing, will commit to differentiated but concrete targets to contribute to combating climate change. unlike some colleagues, i would have liked to see a stronger involvement of some partners, particularly the united states, in bali, as in kyoto. on the positive side, bali has completed the kyoto gaps on issues such as forest management, the need to support adaptation especially in poorer countries, the role of technology and the extension of climate responsibilities to economies not traditionally considered developed. the role of european leadership has become clear and parliament, in this resolution, expresses its wish that the conditions be created for europe to be able to go even further in its commitments. the following programme of work is demanding and parliament is prepared to take it on. in this connection, i personally welcome the commission's package of decisions taken on 23 december. the shift from political will to instruments of action gives the european union credibility. much will need to be looked at in detail, but the quantification of renewable energy targets, the clarification of sustainability criteria for biofuels and the review of climate-related financial instruments are welcome, for example. i personally welcome the transition of the ets from a national to a sectoral basis, but i believe it is urgent that its compatibility with europe's competitiveness be improved before 2009. the evolution of the emissions trading system to the international level, based on agreements between the world's largest producers for the main sectors, may be a way forward.
at a time when unemployment in portugal is at one of the highest rates in 20 years, affecting mainly women and young people, yet another multinational is pressuring workers to give up their employment contracts. it's about yasaki saltano who wants to end the production of wire harnesses in serzedo, gaia. it intends to continue to shift production to other countries, notably from asia and africa, after having already drastically reduced the number of workers. it is recorded that this multinational has already employed more than 6 000 workers in its ovar and serzedo factories, and has received millions of euros in community support for this purpose. but now that employment has been reduced to less than a third. we therefore once again insist on the need to take effective measures to prevent such relocations of production and not merely to provide relief, as is now the case with the globalisation fund for workers who are victims of relocations by multinationals, particularly in the automobile sector and its components, such as opel portugal, johnson controls and alcoa fujikura, which have now closed.
i would like to use this opportunity to speak in the plenary session of the european parliament to denounce the unacceptable situation of kader sahim, a young activist of the communist party of turkey, who has been detained by decision of the turkish authorities since january 2007, without having been informed of the charges against her or the reasons for her detention pending trial. kader sahim was arrested following his attendance at a press conference denouncing the crackdown on turkish political prisoners in december 2000, which was violently interrupted by turkish police forces. in view of the fact that another hearing is scheduled for his trial on 5 february, we express our disapproval of this situation and call on the turkish authorities to release him immediately and to drop the unfounded charges against him.
the rapporteur. - the face of old europe has changed. today the european union, with 27 member states and almost 500 million inhabitants, faces complex and exciting challenges, which require us to take an ever wider view of the world and to be very attentive to issues such as the maintenance of peace, security, stability, freedom and the exercise of democracy. it demands, as victor hugo wisely perpetuated, that we know what part of the future can be introduced into the present, as the secret to the art of good government. this is the dimension and the great challenge of this report - the challenge of the safety of people and goods in the union - and it is very much present in the daily lives of europeans. i am talking about security, today and tomorrow, every day, on the streets, at work, at leisure and at home, on land, at sea, in the air. it is the security of our common space which, without being imposed, guarantees and reinforces freedom in a balanced coexistence. freedom is a prius, a fundamental value of the union, security is instrumental in the service of well-being, stability and guaranteeing freedom. freedom as a value and security as an instrument are essential to the european project. the austrian initiative, taken up by the portuguese presidency and which led to the council decision, provides for improved cooperation between special intervention units of the european union in crisis situations. it is a good and necessary initiative. this initiative is complementary to prüm, since this treaty provides for cooperation only in the event of natural disasters or serious accidents. my report proposes 11 amendments to the proposal for a decision which, moreover, establishes a minimum general framework for cooperation in cases of man-made crises, aircraft diversions, terrorist attacks, etc., that is, in man-made crisis situations which constitute a serious and direct physical threat to persons, property, infrastructure or institutions. in the proposal, cooperation in the training, preparation and action of special intervention units is always a possibility and it is up to the member state whether or not to request cooperation and to indicate the type of assistance sought. it should be stressed that the effectiveness and readiness of interventions will always depend on the degree of preparation, coordination, coordination and the existence of uniform methods in the modus operandi of the intervention units, so i propose, on the one hand, the possibility of joint training and exercises, and, on the other hand, that such training and exercises may be financed from the union budget, in accordance with articles 30, 32 and 34 of the treaty on european union. it should also be noted that, in our view, the rules on civil and criminal liability applicable in the case of joint operations should be the same as those of the prüm decisions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this council decision is very important. it is a common solution to common problems and threats facing all member states. it is a solution that values the indispensable cooperation in preparing for and responding to crises caused by the human hand, always unforeseen but always possible. finally, i would like to thank you for the institutional cooperation and technical assistance you have given me and to highlight the amendments tabled by mr díaz de mera, mr demetriou and mr iotova, which have improved and enriched my draft report.
the rapporteur. - first of all, i would like to thank mr fratini and the other members of my committee for the references to my work, to the report and to the other members of the committee who have justified their support for the report and for the initiative of austria and the decision to continue the council and the portuguese presidency. i would like to stress one aspect which i think is very important. in this respect, security - and i repeat, security is an instrument, not a value - is an instrument in the service of freedom and is an instrument in the service of the effective and concrete exercise of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union. and another aspect which i think is no less important is that this decision will not favour any intervention, as has been said here, this decision will promote a fundamental aspect in the construction of the european union, which is cooperation between the member states on the one hand, and on the other hand it will also promote cooperation in the field of training, joint exercises and therefore prevention. it is only when member states ask each other to do so that there can be a possibility of acting in the face of concrete crisis situations that arise, and this assessment will of course have to be made by the respective member states. my proposal for budget support from the union budget is also intended, in my view, primarily to stimulate and encourage cooperation in this area, in addition, of course, to some financial support for the member states which need it. finally, i would like to say that it is important that it be implemented, that it be implemented and that it be done quickly, because security does not ask for a day or an hour and every day there can be crisis situations which undermine our security and therefore our freedom in a european union state and which undermine the confidence of all 500 million citizens of the european union.
mr president, i regret to announce to the house that mr zamel bawi, whose execution we asked to be stopped, was executed at 4 a.m. yesterday in karoon prison in ahwaz. therefore i am moving an oral amendment to mr salafranca sánchez-neyra’s existing amendment, on which i hope to obtain his agreement. the oral amendment relates to this execution and states that one of the inmates on death row is actually a european citizen, who was kidnapped from syria. the other two are unhcr refugees who had already obtained asylum in norway. the oral amendment reads as follows: ‘protests vehemently against the execution in iran on 30 january 2008 at 4 a.m. local time of the ahwazi activist zamel bawi, the 19th ahwazi activist executed in the last 12 months, and urges the iranian government to desist from executing the dutch citizen and human-rights activist faleh abdulah al-mansouri and the unhcr-registered refugees rasoul ali mazrea and said saki, whose resettlement to norway has been secured, as well as to allow them to proceed to their countries of citizenship or refuge’. then it continues as before: ‘calls for the release of the kurdish journalists abdolvahed “hiwa” butimar and adnan hassanpour who have been sentenced to death’.
in writing. − the initiative aims to give cyprus and the two countries that joined the eu in 2007 - romania and bulgaria - the possibility of introducing a simplified regime for checking people at the external borders based on a unilateral equivalence of visas and residence permits. such recognition shall be limited to transit through the territory of those 3 member states and for a period not exceeding 5 days. i clearly support this simplified system, since third country nationals who hold a visa issued by another member state and who benefit from this system have already been subject to a rigorous verification process in that member state and have not been considered a threat to public policy or a risk in terms of illegal immigration. these rules were first introduced in 2006 into the community visa acquis for the unilateral recognition of visas and residence permits, with the aim of simplifying the transit of certain categories of persons while avoiding any unnecessary administrative burden on consular posts. the nine countries that joined the eu in 2004 and became fully integrated into the schengen area on 21 december 2007 see the mutual recognition of these documents as compulsory at the end of the transitional period.
in writing. - as in the report on switzerland and liechtenstein, we think it is important to stress that, in general, these agreements should be part of a more general framework which also aims at promoting the rights of migrant workers and their protection against unacceptable situations of over-exploitation, by promoting the effective exercise of their rights and their integration, for example by guaranteeing the right to family reunification, by applying the international convention for the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families - it should be stressed that it has not yet been ratified by any eu member state - drawn up under the auspices of the un, an instrument of international law which aims to guarantee the protection of the human rights of migrant workers, in particular the inalienable right to live in a family. in other words, facilitating the movement of citizens between different countries should not be used as an instrument to facilitate situations of exploitation of a temporary, low-cost and easily 'disposable' labour force, of increasing levels of exploitation and pressure on wages, of promoting precariousness, of deregulating labour relations, fuelling a backward dynamic in terms of social rights and conditions for all workers, but on the contrary, to combat such realities.
in writing. - as we have stressed, measures and agreements facilitating the movement of citizens from different countries should be based on principles of balance and mutual benefit for the various parties involved. let us recall the previous agreements between the ec and switzerland on the free movement of persons, which were of particular interest to portugal, given that there are more than 100,000 portuguese working in that country, including many thousands of seasonal workers. agreements which should help to resolve many of the limitations and problems faced by portuguese workers in switzerland, for example as regards changing jobs or professions, family reunification, moving cantons or social protection for workers and their families. in this sense, and in general, these agreements should be part of a wider framework which also aims to promote the rights of migrant workers and to protect them against unacceptable situations of over-exploitation. the facilitation of the movement of citizens between different countries should not be used as an instrument to facilitate situations of exploitation of temporary, low-cost and easily 'disposable' labour, the weakening of labour relations, in particular by fuelling a backward dynamic in workers' social rights and conditions.
in writing. - the european commission's present proposal aims to improve and simplify legislation in this area which dates back 10 years. over the last decade, the aquaculture sector has been the fastest growing sector of the agri-food industry and currently accounts for over 80 000 jobs in aquaculture in europe! the growing importance of the sector, both economically and socially, warrants an improvement in the quality of the information available. the aim is to improve data collection and transmission. harmonizing them between the different member states is also essential. this proposal, enriched by the amendments introduced by the european parliament, therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - the increase, especially in the last decade, of terrorist threats and attacks, with their devastating consequences, has led to the urgent need to create the necessary measures and instruments to deal with this scourge. this is a common threat that requires a global response, providing the means, resources and expertise needed to deal effectively with large-scale crisis situations that a member state alone would have difficulty dealing with. this initiative by the austrian presidency allows for the existence of joint support teams which should be able to provide operational assistance to the member state which requests it following a terrorist attack. i have no doubt that this type of large-scale crisis situation requires a rapid reaction by special intervention units. i therefore support this decision which aims to establish the necessary legal framework, simplifying such cooperation and allowing for a faster response by member states in situations of crisis or terrorist attacks, while ensuring the highest possible level of assistance to the affected member state.
in writing. - the eu in the field of civil liberties, justice and home affairs has been treading an extremely dangerous path and a strong attack on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens and the very sovereignty of states and peoples. the strengthening of federalist and militarist tendencies and measures in the eu has been responsible for the decision-making with a view to creating structures, both at the level of information and of operational groups of police, with powers to intervene on national territory, in a dynamic that is intended to overlap the national police themselves. the austrian initiative, which has been cleverly exacerbated by the ep's proposals, is in fact intended to create or allow, on the grounds of 'terrorism' and hypothetical 'crisis or risk situations', the formation of genuine 'pretorian guards', duly indoctrinated, to act, in particular, in controlling, intimidating or repressing the exercise of rights and freedoms, in violation of the basic principles of democracy, the rule of law and the constitutional legality and national sovereignty of portugal itself. we therefore warn against the dangers inherent in the content and objectives of this initiative, as well as in all other measures aimed at the exercise of any power in an unlimited, irrational, disproportionate and unconstitutional way.
in writing. - this report contains some contradictions and positions which we do not share. but it is true that scientific research must return to its main task: the creation of new knowledge. it is true that there is no linear relationship between r & d and innovation, although there are certain correlations, but they are complex and involve aspects that transcend the realm of science. it is therefore necessary to review the conception of research as a kind of panacea for solving economic and social problems and to invest more in research. some of the measures adopted at the lisbon european council in 2000 were a reaction to the problem of europe's under-investment in the knowledge economy, which were reinforced at the barcelona european council in 2002, which set the objective of increasing the overall level of r & d expenditure in the european union to close to 3% of gdp by 2010. however, the increase in r&d expenditure since 2000 has not been sufficient and is on average only 1,84%, partly due to the industry. private sector investment in research is lower than what would be socially necessary. the states must play a central role and develop cooperation to enable new knowledge to be created and made available to society as a whole.
in writing. the notion that r & d and innovation are a fundamental part of competitiveness is not new, but remains current. whatever differences there may be on the need to direct efforts towards innovation or more academic research, the fact is that europe needs to improve its investment in knowledge and the practical application of that knowledge. but this need is not limited to financial investment. several successive reports give account of the many causes of the backwardness that europe has and maintains vis-à-vis other parts of the world. from american universities to indian research, the competition around us is immense and growing. on the other hand, the attractiveness of the european schools is reduced, as these reports also prove, which insistently refer, among other things, to the weak overall and per capita funding and the lack of autonomy of our universities as inhibiting factors for better performance. for all these reasons, any approach which treats this matter as an economic and strategic urgency should be applauded. and if it is true that time is running against us, it is no less true that it is better to waste time making the right choices than to decide rashly and ineffectively.
in writing. - we regret that our proposal to reject this directive, which aims at the full liberalisation of postal services by creating a so-called 'market' at eu level, was not adopted. the majority in the ep - representing the same political forces as those at the forefront of right-wing politics in each country - is thus seeking to take another step in the process of dismantling this key public service. it is the assault by the large transnational corporations on the public postal service, on the public ownership of the provision of this service and on the public administration that is supposed to ensure it, as well as on its democratic character, seeking to remove from the competence of each people, that is, from its national sovereignty, the control and decision on these crucial issues, which are now decided at a supranational level by the eu institutions, according to interests alien to the populations and portugal. equally significant is the rejection of our amendment which sought to strengthen the guarantee of the requirement for all 'operators' to comply fully with labour law, that is to say, with any legal or contractual provision relating to working conditions, including health and safety at work, which the member states apply in accordance with national law, as well as social security legislation and collective agreements.
in writing. - we welcome the final adoption of the report on the postal services market, noting that the lengthy process the institutions have undergone shows the importance of this dossier for the achievement of its two main objectives, namely ensuring the maintenance of universal service and the adequate opening of the market to fair competition. i would like to stress above all that the opening up of markets will mean better service and more choice for citizens, thus avoiding distortion of competition and putting an end to existing monopoly positions once and for all. another issue is the financing of the universal service. where it involves net costs for a member state, it may be the subject of a financing plan to be submitted to the commission. however, it is appropriate to recall the portuguese case, among others, which reveal that the universal public service is perfectly solvent with resources from the reserved area, a transparent, neutral and state-subsidy-free method. it must therefore be reiterated that there has never been any reason to prevent the continuation of this service, which is fundamental for territorial and social cohesion and for supporting the populations living in desertified areas or in the most remote and difficult-to-access territories.
in writing. - the hypocrisy of the so-called 'international community' - that is, the us and its allies - in relation to the npt and, in particular, to iran's nuclear programme must be denounced. the same political initiative is not being taken with regard to the nuclear weapons development programmes of some of the eu members or the us - or even the nuclear programmes of israel, pakistan or india, non-npt signatories which have nuclear weapons - and the us has already declared that it may use them offensively. what is required is therefore full compliance with the npt and the elimination of all nuclear weapons. what's really at stake with iran is that both the us and the eu know that peak oil production has already been passed in many countries. the reason for the serious threats of military aggression, the provocations and the rashness about iran's nuclear programme is that this country has the world's largest hydrocarbon reserves and the us and the eu are trying to create the conditions, including the manipulation of public opinion, to control its energy resources and the entire middle east, as iraq is demonstrating here.
in writing. - iran is now a regional and global threat and a challenge to the ability of the member states of the european union to stand united and firm on the international stage. irrespective of the successive and contradictory reports that have emerged, the truth is that iran has not fulfilled its obligation of transparency and has not contributed to creating a sense of trust. on the contrary, i did. besides, outside the nuclear dossier, the news is not encouraging either. human rights violations, state violence, false democracy in elections are all factors to be taken into account in our attitude towards iran. i would therefore like to stress the european parliament's insistence that the council and the commission comply with the decision of the european court of justice and remove the iranian resistance, the pmoi, from the list of terrorist organisations. the eu (and some member states) has been treating the iranian resistance in a way that benefits the iranian regime and not the iranian people or the goals of democratization in that part of the world. that strategy has to change and it's starting to change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the outcome of the bali conference on climate change (cop 13 and cop/mop 3) because, in view of the urgency of slowing down the increasing global warming process, i consider the agreement reached in bali to be an important step towards a new protocol being agreed and adopted in copenhagen in 2009 with renewed targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. i believe that the portuguese presidency of the european union played a decisive role at the bali conference, actively contributing to the progress of the negotiations and succeeding in reaching a very positive agreement. it would be desirable, however, that the bali action plan should refer to quantified targets for co2 emission reductions.
in writing. - this resolution in general merely repeats general ideas and is insufficient in several areas. that is why we abstained. of course, because if the objective is to reduce co2 emissions mainly from the combustion of fossil fuels, the question arises of measuring these emissions. it is known that this measurement is very complex and manipulable, since fossil fuels, after extraction, are transported, processed, their derivatives distributed and used in many ways, in thousands of endpoints. as several experts in this field point out, to reduce emissions and meet targets, it was more effective and simpler to monitor an instrument approved on the basis of a protocol on the international extraction and marketing of fossil fuels. this would make it easier to set rates or targets for reducing primary fossil fuel production and corresponding exports/imports, thus setting country emission ceilings. but it would also be necessary to negotiate commitments from the richer countries to unlock funds to support developing countries so that they can meet the economic and social costs of the necessary measures. i regret that they have rejected the group's proposals in this direction.
in writing. − last december, the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change met in bali, and progress was made on many aspects of climate protection on a global scale. in addition to the start of negotiations for a new protocol to replace the kyoto protocol, i would stress the declaration that the ipcc 4th report was the best scientific basis for the work of the convention and the reference, for the first time and putting an end to the taboo, to the need for developing countries to also cooperate, taking into account, of course, their economic context and development. finally, i consider that the great innovation of bali was the inclusion, for the first time, of the problem of deforestation which, as part of the bali action plan, will be discussed with a view to its inclusion in the future protocol. i am voting in favour of the resolution of the temporary committee on climate change because it defends the results achieved in bali, makes a number of comments on the role of the eu in the future negotiations, which i agree with, and highlights what was less developed in the bali action plan.
in writing. - this is another report which identifies a situation but does not go into its causes or indicate essential ways forward, merely taking up controversial statements by international organisations and, in one case or another, as the reference to russia and africa, demonstrating that its concern is much more the defence of the interests of the european union than any cooperation policy, which we disagree with. what is clear is that the shortage of fossil fuels, reflected in their prices, requires a reduction in their consumption. to avoid a reduction in economic and social activities, it is therefore necessary to deliberately reduce unnecessary consumption, waste in conversion, transport and distribution processes and final consumption. energy, being non-recyclable after use and scarce at its sources, needs to be managed according to technical know-how and complex political priorities, and therefore requires central planning by states in the public interest, excluding themselves from the fluctuations and sentiments of market actors. and that's what's still missing. other well-intentioned recommendations are directed at life and activities in cities and metropolitan areas, with potentially very positive consequences for the renewal and innovation of energy networks, buildings, transport and other public utilities.
in writing. − the return of fish (thrown overboard, dead or dying) and by-catches are a serious problem for the cfp. with management mechanisms geared to landings rather than catches, the eu fisheries sector needs a rapid reformulation of its policies with the aim of reducing these bad practices. the european commission has therefore issued a communication setting out its intention to introduce a policy to reduce unwanted by-catches and to phase out discards in european fisheries. unwanted by-catches and their subsequent discarding have numerous negative consequences: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of non-discrimination to the fishing activities of vessels flying their flag. in this sense, and because this report reinforces the need for sustainable fishing in accordance with the principles of the reformed cfp, my vote is in favour.
in writing. − it is undoubtedly desirable and necessary to reduce unwanted by-catches and discards, but this should not be done by decree. it is impossible to address all the points raised in the report, so we welcome the adoption of our amendment which 'reminds that the impact of small-scale fishing on discards is minimal and therefore calls for greater community support for the promotion and development of small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing'. and we regret the rejection of our proposals which emphasized: - that in order to establish appropriate measures to promote an effective reduction of discards, it is necessary first to know and analyse the different causes which are at their origin, such as commercial reasons (price, disposal, maximising the value of fish), fishing for fish below minimum landing sizes or by-catch; - that a detailed study of the measures to be taken and their impact on the socioeconomic situation of the sector is necessary; - the importance of voluntary reductions in fishing effort and the establishment of mechanisms to compensate fishermen financially for this effort, and the adoption of positive market intervention measures to combat discards (guaranteeing the disposal of fish at fair prices and the development of the canning industry).
in writing. - citizens of romanichél origin are often victims of discrimination in the different countries of the eu, which, by assuming multifaceted aspects - whether in terms of their political, economic, social or cultural rights - fosters situations of poverty, social exclusion and disintegration. the failure to respect and exercise fundamental rights such as the right to health, housing, education, employment with rights and social security, in fact, fuels situations of social inequality, marginalization and ghettoization, illiteracy, integration into the informal economy and lack of socio-political participation, which many citizens of romanichél origin also face. policies are therefore needed to effectively combat social inequalities, exploitation and concentration of wealth, to create jobs with rights, to ensure access to and the exercise of the most fundamental rights by promoting public services, and to eradicate poverty and social exclusion. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we believe that the solution to the problems faced by many citizens of romanichél origin is the establishment of 'common policies' at eu level, as the resolution advocates. that is why we abstain.
this point is closed.
the following is the report by mr aloyzas sakalas, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the request for defence of the parliamentary immunity of mr witold tomczak [2007/2130(imm) ] (a6-0008/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 february 2008.
the report by mr josé javier pomés ruiz, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on transparency in financial matters [2007/2141 (ini) ] (a6-0010/2008) follows.
the question of mr staes has of course been discussed in the bureau and there will be a solution to it.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur and vice-president siim kallas on this initiative, but i would like to say that i would have been even more pleased if the vice-president had taken the necessary steps to ensure that the financial regulation - the rules which came into force on 1 january 2007 - was being complied with by the european commission, particularly as regards the designation of the final beneficiaries of the various community funds. it is particularly, and extremely worrying, that the european commission has given a totally unsatisfactory answer to the question of the legality and regularity of the designation of img as an international organisation, and i would like to know, commissioner, whether, in addition to this new international organisation, the european commission has also decided to find others so that we can know who has access to community funds without having to go through the public tender.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 february 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by francesco musotto, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the protection of the communities' financial interests - fight against fraud - annual reports 2005-2006 [2006/2268 (ini) ] (a6-0009/2008) follows.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by reiterating that the relentless fight against terrorism must be conducted within the law, in compliance with the rule of law and without infringing on fundamental rights. i do not know whether terrorism is, as the report says, the main threat to the security of citizens in the union, but i am of the opinion, as president deprez has already said, that it is certainly one of the main threats, and i think that devaluing this threat does not contribute to combating it effectively or to increasing the security of our citizens. i shall therefore vote against the amendments you intend to make. terrorism does not only affect the citizens of the countries that have been victims of these attacks, but it endangers the security of all others, sows fear and threatens terror. terrorism is an irrational manifestation of fanaticism that disregards the value of life and the dignity of the human person. the union has rightly placed, commissioner frattini, the fight against terrorism at the top of its priorities. we need a global strategy that can lead to the dismantling of terrorist networks. this strategy should focus on the preventive dimension, including the fight against terrorist recruitment and all factors that favour violent radicalisation. it is important to analyse and understand the reasons, causes and processes that lead to radicalisation and terrorism, particularly of young people living in our member states, by demonstrating that there have been failures in the integration processes. i agree that, within the framework of the law and respect for freedom of expression, terrorist propaganda intended to encourage terrorist acts should be combated. i would like to end by supporting mayor oreja's view that a european initiative, especially in this area, cannot and should not be used as a platform for the promotion of national electoral strategies.
mr commissioner, mr president, in a minute i can only congratulate commissioner mandelson on his decision not to go ahead with the review of trade defence instruments. imagine that in a system of tumultuous rivers there is a system of dams. the floodgates are run by common rules. is it acceptable that one of the dams should be altered without anyone else doing so, just because some believe that the water this winter will not reach their homes? unilaterally changing the rules of the trade defence instruments would be to weaken the dam to avoid managing the locks. this is not what europe needs, and the commission was right to hear the very clear messages that were given to it in this parliament by the trade unions, european industry and most of the member states. the freedom of trade cannot be achieved by violating the rules governing it. on the contrary, these rules must be modernised and incorporate universal values such as the defence of decent work, the protection of the environment and the climate or public health. it is in this sense, and not in any other, that europe must use its political prestige and its commercial strength in bilateral agreements and vis-à-vis the world's major producers. only with reciprocity and modern, universal rules can trade contribute to improving the living conditions of citizens outside europe, of the world in general, but also the living and survival conditions of european workers and entrepreneurs who still want to keep producing, living and exporting from europe. that is what is expected of the commissioner who represents europe on the world stage. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner.
i would like to add, commissioner, to the question i asked earlier or to the comment i made earlier, that in the european case the cases which have been raised in relation to textiles and footwear have allowed, in particular in my country, a transition to change which has prevented some unemployment, but it was by no means a protectionist move and at the moment companies have moved, have located their factories outside europe and are creating jobs outside and within europe. so it was an interesting move. however, despite this, it is noted that during 2007 there were no new proceedings initiated by the commission. so what i'm asking is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether, in not initiating proceedings (not against portugal but against other countries), in not initiating any investigation, anti-dumping or anti-subsidy proceedings, did the commission do so while awaiting a decision on the review procedure which was in progress, or is it putting to the back burner the cases which it should have already begun to investigate? and that's the question i'd like to ask you.
in writing. - first of all, we must say that our vote against is a protest against the delay in the entry into force of a directive on the safety and health of workers, in this case a directive adopted in 2004 which establishes limit values for the exposure of workers to electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields, as well as preventive measures, information and training. the european commission is now proposing a new directive solely to postpone the transposition of that directive by four years. the european commission's presentation of this proposal for a postponement is being criticised. it claims that the medical community has expressed its concerns about the application of the directive and that several studies have been requested in the meantime. it is a pity that similar concern about the effects of this directive does not exist with regard to the effects of other legislative instruments and policy guidelines aimed at liberalising public services and goods and deregulating labour relations and workers' rights. it is only when workers' rights and health are being defended that the european commission asks for further studies to be postponed. this is unacceptable.
in writing. - although we are in the process of codification, which does not alter existing legislation in any way, the fundamental question is the need for a set of community directives on a number of aspects of tractors and other motor vehicles and their trailers, as stated in several reports voted on today in plenary, in their codified version. that is one area where i think community legislation is excessive. it would probably be sufficient to have general motor vehicle legislation covering the general aspects, without the need to multiply directives for each of the areas, as is now the case, of which examples are: suppression of electrical parasites produced by agricultural or forestry tractors (electromagnetic compatibility); noise level at the level of the ears of drivers of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors; lighting of the rear registration plate of motor vehicles and their trailers. the vote in favour of codification does not change this opinion.
in writing. - this regulation replaces regulation (eec) no 2913/92 which established the community customs code. the reasons given are the amendments which have been made to it in the meantime. the community customs code (ccc) was established by regulation no 2913/92. it was already a lengthy and technically complex document regulating customs matters in the community. each specific subject within the cac was discussed by the experts in the respective field and the cac issues were addressed in the respective committee. in a world where trade is dominated by large transnational companies, this draft code would have to reflect and serve the interests of these same transnational companies by reducing the time of movement of goods and simplifying customs procedures. it is another question whether this simplification has also led to measures to combat customs fraud. simplification seems to have been favoured over the fight against fraud. it is no coincidence that community texts and/or their translations often speak of 'facilitation' rather than of 'simplification'. it's like they're talking out of their mouths.
in writing. - regardless of whether there is any point in which we should be concerned, we consider that, in general terms, the report raises a number of issues of the utmost importance and relevance. following the european transparency initiative launched by the commission in november 2005, the report reaffirms the need to establish and fully operate mechanisms to make known, for example, the final beneficiaries of the different structural funds by making this information publicly available in an organised manner. the report suggests that different beneficiaries may receive eu funds under different community programmes or sectors of activity, and acknowledges that it could be instructive to have the possibility of identifying all amounts paid to a particular beneficiary across sectors - invaluable information, for example, in the case of relocations of companies, to be provided by workers... the report also deals with other important issues, such as the declaration of financial interests of public office holders in the eu institutions, suggesting the establishment of standards, or the composition of the so-called expert groups (formal or informal) that the commission decides to set up to assist it in its initiatives, including legislative initiatives, suggesting that its composition be known.
in writing. − those who manage public funds are expected and required to be the most rational in their management, the most rigorous in presenting the results of their activities and to be completely transparent. taxpayers - because they are the ultimate funders of all public money - have a right (which they should exercise) to want to know who spends and how they spend the funds made available to the community's interests. for this reason, this report, supported by a communication from the european commission which presents a set of proposals which deserve our agreement in the majority, has received my vote in favour. i would add that i believe that the principles and rules applicable to community funds, in particular those managed directly by the european institutions, should also apply mutatis mutandis to other public funds, in particular those managed by the member states.
in writing. − the fight against fraud and the misuse of public funds, in this case community funds, must be a priority in each member state. to this end, it is essential that each state be provided with the necessary human and material resources to enable it to fulfil its role properly. it should be stressed that, while reaffirming the responsibility of the states to protect the public interest - as the report does - policies are simultaneously promoted which devalue and deprive the states of functions which should be theirs, in particular through the dismantling of public administration services, the permanent disqualification and dismissal of their workers and the use of private entities to perform some of these functions. in our view, the report should also deal with the consequences for the management of public funds of the transfer of public service functions to private companies. it is also stressed that it should be assessed to what extent the excessive complexity and inadequacy of the rules, as well as the delay in the granting of funds, contribute to the irregularities detected. however, the proposals in the report are essentially punitive, in particular by proposing infringement procedures and suspension of interim payments to the member states.
in writing. - although the report contains aspects which we value and consider positive in the context of the worsening world situation, among other aspects, it does not demarcate or denounce the real objectives and consequences of the so-called fight against terrorism, in particular as a factor that promotes and encourages terrorism in itself. the report alludes, albeit mildly, to the fundamental need for a diplomatic and peaceful resolution of conflicts in the world, but fails to point out that the primary factors that encourage terrorism are the spiral of violence fuelled by the militarization of international relations, the attacks on the independence of states and the sovereignty of peoples, state terrorism, the violation of the fundamental freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens, unbridled capitalist exploitation, the inhuman deepening of inequalities and injustices and the existence of millions of human beings living in desperate situations - as in afghanistan, iraq or palestine. we believe that a serious analysis of terrorism - in all its forms, including state terrorism - will require its political contextualisation, thus exposing its root causes and the policies that are at its origin, such as the so-called fight against terrorism in which the usa and its allies are protagonists. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - one of the greatest dangers in the debate on terrorism and its causes is that we fall into one of two extremes. on the one hand, the understanding that, seeking to understand everything, makes everything acceptable and justifiable; on the other, the refusal to recognize diverse realities that confuse everything and lump everything into the same concepts and standards. both extremes are dangerous as analyses, because, being untrue, they do not allow valid conclusions, misleading police, legislators and citizens. on the other hand, they are a threat to an understanding of reality which is at the same time inclusive and firm with terrorism. that is our challenge: to be able to understand reality as it is, and not as we wish it or fear it; and consequently act on both distant and proximate causes. never forget that terrorism is not acceptable or justifiable under any circumstances. and that it is not the victims (actual or potential) who must understand and justify the crimes of the aggressors. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. the european parliament's owninitiative report is a veritable repository of objectives and initiatives for the further liberalisation of world trade - whether in goods, services or capital - led by the eu and its commission, which has almost full power over the common commercial policy with the new treaty proposal, where this is set out as the exclusive competence of the eu. the opening of the markets, the dogma. the end of all and any barriers to trade, in particular with developed and emerging economies, is the way forward. the opening up of markets, if possible in the image of the eu single market, is the objective. in the face of what it considers to be the insufficiently regulatory and binding system of the current wto, it is pushing for the promotion of the european model of governance for trade, either by creating free trade agreements or by insisting on the conclusion of the current round of wto negotiations - for which it calls for the creation of synergies with the eu's main trading partners (such as the us, canada and japan). as an example, the report calls on third countries to remove the restrictions on foreign ownership imposed on european companies. the economic domain is ambition. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - although the european internal market is vast, the world market, opened up by the mechanisms of globalisation, is even larger and more dynamic. for this reason, access for european companies to this market, particularly to emerging economies with high growth rates, should be a priority for both the public and private sectors. it is true, however, that in the field of private initiative we cannot make choices or, even worse, impose priorities, but in the field of public initiatives there is still a long way to go. on the one hand, we must be aware of the need to open our markets if we want - and we do - to have ever greater access to international markets. on the other hand, it is essential to rely on the ability of european companies to cope with the growing economic efficiency and competitiveness of companies in these countries, which implies the need to rely without hesitation on the competitiveness and innovation of our companies, which can only take place in a free, open and transparent environment.
the reality is that eight years after the adoption of the lisbon strategy, social inequalities have deepened and poverty has worsened, affecting some 78 million people, 25 million of whom are low-wage workers and in precarious employment. most of the jobs created are precarious and parttime work particularly affects women, who continue to be discriminated against in access to employment, training and career progression and at wage level. youth unemployment is twice as high as total unemployment, including many young people with higher education who are unable to find jobs, and even fewer jobs that take account of their training, while some 6 million young people continue to leave school prematurely each year, which also jeopardises their future. these are consequences that were foreseeable in a strategy that deepened its neo-liberal vision with the 2005 revision, which identified as priority measures the liberalisation and privatisation of structural sectors and public services and which insisted on labour flexibility. now the situation of poverty and social injustice may be aggravated by the financial crisis that has started in the united states, with the high price of fossil fuels and some agricultural commodities essential for food. it is therefore urgent to change policies to prevent its consequences in the european union, particularly in the weaker economies, to avoid worsening the social situation. in the resolution we are presenting, we therefore insist on the need to replace the lisbon strategy with a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, which opens up new horizons for europe, horizons of full employment and non-discrimination, decent jobs with rights, better wages, economic and social cohesion and adequate public and universal social protection and security, and ultimately ensuring greater social justice.
in 2006, the european union recorded the highest economic growth since 2000. in 2007, the european union outgrew the united states and some new member states approached or even exceeded the double-digit barrier. for those who claim that the revision of the lisbon strategy is neo-liberal and has lost its importance to social issues, the answer is clear: in 2006 employment grew three times faster than the average for the previous five years, and an additional 6.5 million new jobs were created in the last two years, with a further 5 million expected to be created by 2009. you have to go back to the 1980s to find similar values. moreover, in 2006, productivity in europe grew more than the annual average of the previous five years. and for the first time in many years, productivity growth in europe has been higher than in the united states of america. while i cannot claim that these results are the exclusive consequence of the lisbon strategy, it cannot be denied that it has contributed to their achievement. i therefore congratulate the commission on the way it has coordinated the lisbon strategy in very difficult circumstances of implementation. a word about the future: the european economy can continue to grow and more jobs can be created, despite the current situation, if in the coming years the coordination of the economic policies of the member states is improved, if the internal market is deepened, if social dialogue is promoted, if wage increases keep pace with productivity growth, if there is an effective financial surveillance system, if the fifth freedom that of knowledge is strengthened, and, very important to me, if the european union shows clear signs that it wants to defend its interests, which means not being a passive subject of the phenomenon of globalisation, but, on the contrary, showing that it is willing to play a decisive role in controlling it.
mr president-in-office, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, with the so-called subprime crisis, many of the arguments repeated by the most liberal politicians have fallen flat. after all, markets are not self-regulating, losses do not affect only those who consciously and deliberately participate in sophisticated high-risk games, and europe's good behaviour does not guarantee its immunity to external turbulence. this is just one of many examples which recommend, as the socialist group has been advocating, that europe should define policies and instruments consistent with its objectives and with the role it wants to play in the difficult context of the globalised economy. in 2000 we set a central objective through the revised lisbon strategy. this objective remains valid, but it is not sufficiently achieved. the aim was that in two years' time, in 2010, europe would be the most competitive area in the world, based on a knowledge-based economy creating more social cohesion, more and better jobs. today, the challenges are more pressing and some conclusions are clear: first, the broad economic policy guidelines and the lisbon strategy must be fully aligned; secondly, a balance must be struck between the stability of policy orientations and the ability to respond to rapidly changing environments, including climate, energy, financial market developments, external trade policy or the role of exchange rates; thirdly, the objectives of social and spatial convergence are today one of the greatest failures of the strategy. finally, to ensure external competitiveness and link it to internal cohesion, more effective instruments are needed. the effective coordination of economic policies for growth and employment is just one of them. social, educational, investment, research, science and technology policies must be revised in the light of the new realities. this is the spirit of the contributions presented by the socialist group, which i hope will be welcomed by the commission and the council. we need, above all, citizens to expect the promises of progress to materialise - it is only in this way that it will make sense and that it will nourish your hope and confidence in the future of europe.
the commissioner said that in the last three years it had increased its capacity for growth, improved the functioning of the market, social reforms, public finances and the environmental component. that's a finding, i agree. i recognize that this improvement is mainly due to better dialogue, to better participation by the member states, as we recognized last week at the joint meeting between the european parliament and the parliaments of the member states. the question i would like to ask, commissioner, is this: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union. mr lisbon, at the level of the states, was positive and encouraging. although the responsibility lies with the member states, could the creation of mr lisbon not be encouraged at regional level?
the question period is now over (b6-0010/2008). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 39 by anne e. jensen (h-0051/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: airworthiness review by the easa in the autumn of 2007, three accidents with dash8 q400 aircraft occurred in aalborg, vilnius and copenhagen. the provisional reports of the investigating authorities indicate that the accidents of 9 and 12 september were due to construction defects, a conclusion shared by the scandinavian aviation authorities (slv) and the european aviation safety agency (easa). the accident on october 27th was due to a combination of construction defects and detection of defects. the scandinavian aviation authorities have banned the scandinavian aircraft from flying and have set a number of conditions for their continued flying, but easa considers that the design defect in question is of minor importance. can the commission state whether it is not the task of easa to ensure a high level of safety? how is it possible that easa and the scandinavian aviation authorities assess this case so differently when the airline's inspections show that 16 of its 18 dash8 q400 aircraft have the same construction defect as the aircraft that made an emergency landing in copenhagen?
question no 40 by mr jörg leichtfried (h-1062/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: transparency of the salaries of company managers there is a steady increase in the salaries of company managers throughout europe. in austria, for example, basic salaries of managers increased by about 3,7% between 2006 and 2007. the increase in the variable components of managers' salaries is still considerably higher. this increase in salaries has led to a growing public interest in the actual remuneration of management activities. particularly because variable earnings are not shown in the annual accounts, shareholders want to know how their money is being used. european citizens are thus clearly demanding greater transparency in the salaries of company managers. is the commission aware of this situation? is there any european legislation to ensure greater transparency in the salaries of company managers or are there already legislative provisions in this area?
question no 41 by mrs cristina gutiérrez-cortines (h-1041/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: spanish high-speed train (ave) burial works near the sagrada familia as is well known, the underground construction of the spanish high-speed train (ave) underground in barcelona has caused several collapses and ruptures, endangering houses and surface buildings, including the church of the sagrada familia and many other historical monuments. as this is an eu-funded project, can the commission state which environmental impact studies have been carried out (directive 85/337/eec oj l 175, 5.7.1985, p. 40) and whether the risks to the sagrada família and other historic buildings have been assessed? can the commission also say whether the files contain the study by the pompeu fabra university which advises against the underground route because of the dangers and risks it entails for the whole system?
question no 42 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-1049/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: inclusion of classical greek and latin in the european indicator of language proficiency given the commission's intention to adopt a european language proficiency indicator for the five most widely spoken languages (com (2005) 0356), does the commission intend to include latin and classical greek in the programme for learning european languages, given that these languages are the basis of european languages and that many words used by all european languages, regardless of their origin, are derived from them? based on the importance of these languages, the european union of philologists (euroclassica) has already set levels and certified latin proficiency and is working on the corresponding programme for classical greek. learning the two classical languages will allow you to deepen the foundations of european culture and to strengthen relations between european citizens, and the certification of this linguistic competence will constitute an additional qualification for your professional life.
question no 43 by mr bernd posselt (h-0002/08) subject: promotion of linguistic minorities which linguistic minorities benefited from commission support in 2007 and how do you see german-speaking minorities benefiting from increased support in 2008 and 2009?
question no 44 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0010/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: less widely used languages in europe can the commission say whether it intends to present any new programmes in the near future to promote the use of the less widely used languages of europe? can you also indicate the nature of these programmes and the likely financial support to be given to them? question no 45 will be answered in writing.
ladies and gentlemen, i cannot predict when people will ask for the floor, whether they will make statements or put questions. that's not in my head yet. i don't have any divinatory gifts. what i have to do is manage my time according to the house rules and practices, and unfortunately, i don't have time to give it to you. that would mean that i would be prejudicing the other colleagues who have asked questions. it should be noted that we have 70 questions for the commission for this sitting alone. it is obvious that 70 questions put to the commission cannot be answered. we have rules, we have to follow them. i'm very sorry, i understand your frustration. if i were you, and when i'm you, i'm frustrated too, but i can't answer that. the commissioner will, of course, reply in writing and you will therefore get the answer you want. i hope you understand.
question no 46 by mr claude moraes (h-1047/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: regional development fund and minority groups most of the structural funds for regional development for the period 2007-2013 have already been approved. so how will the commission ensure that these funds are not used in a discriminatory way and that ethnic minorities, particularly the roma, also benefit from them? will the commission publish information on the absorption rates of the funds by the various ethnic minority groups?
question no 47 by mr jim higgins (h-1057/07) subject: eu regional funding for ireland 2007-13 is the commission satisfied with the level of regional parity achieved in the newly approved funding for ireland for the period 2007-2013 and is it concerned that the data reveal that the two regions of ireland are not converging, but that the west of ireland (bmw) lags behind the s&e region, which continues to be the main focus of public expenditure?
question no 48 by brian crowley (h-0008/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu support for the peace process in ireland can the commission indicate the amount of financial support it intends to grant to northern ireland under the structural funds for the period 2007-2013 and specify the amount of financial support it has granted since 1994 to the peace process in northern ireland under the eu structural funds programmes, the interreg cross-border initiative, the european peace fund and through the international fund for ireland?
question no 49 by mr david martin (h-1061/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the european structural funds is the commission aware that under the new operational guidelines, projects in scotland require a minimum budget of £200,000 to be eligible for european structural funds? does the commission consider that this represents undue discrimination against small but valid projects? questions 50 to 54 will be answered in writing.
question no 55 by mr papastamkos (h-1044/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: establishment of a european telecommunications regulatory authority the commission's proposals in the context of the forthcoming review of the telecommunications regulatory framework include the creation of a european telecommunications market regulator. this authority will, inter alia, take over the role currently played by the group of european regulators (gre) and coordinate the action of the national regulatory authorities. has the commission taken into account the reactions expressed by all eu nras on the powers and competences of the proposed community authority? what will be the boundaries between the competences of the national regulatory authorities and the new european authority?
question no 56 by giovanna corda (h-1045/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: access to broadband for all citizens in the member states on 13 november 2007, the commission adopted a series of proposals to reform the regulatory framework for electronic communications. could the commission say how it intends to intervene effectively and rapidly in member states to enable all citizens to access the broadband market, which is currently far from being the case because of the enormous price differences? how can the commission ensure that competition is effective and that anti-competitive practices which prevent the opening up of these markets are punished?
question no 57 by mr gay mitchell (h-1051/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: security on the internet while there are still significant benefits to be gained from advances in information and communication technology and the risks of exposing children to inappropriate or illegal content have increased dramatically, the eu adopted in 2005 a safer internet plus programme, which aims to tackle all illegal and undesirable content, in particular as it relates to children. can the commission give an account of the results achieved in this important policy area and in particular what effective improvements can be made in increasing internet security in the member states?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time to the commission is closed.
i congratulate the rapporteurs richard corbett and méndez de vigo on their excellent work and the good example of cooperation they have set. the portuguese presidency has had the historic task of transforming a mandate into a treaty, the treaty of lisbon, which the portuguese parliament will ratify next april. the new treaty is not the cure for all the ills of the european union, but it is an asset to democracy. the european parliament gains more powers and so do national parliaments, but participatory democracy is also strengthened - notably through the right of initiative which allows one million citizens to ask the commission to take a legislative initiative in a specific area - and the charter of fundamental rights is now legally binding. the european union is not perfect, but its role in the world is irreplaceable. we need a europe that is more present and more influential in solving global problems such as climate change, food security, energy policy, international terrorism, organised crime, immigration, etc. it is now urgent that each of the 27 member states which signed the treaty of lisbon on 13 december should proceed to ratify it. this is a decisive step towards a europe that is more efficient in decision-making, closer to the citizens, more able to respond to the challenges of globalisation and more effective in external relations. let each one take responsibility for himself, because the world doesn't stop. while europe has prolonged its pause and spent energies in search of a way out of its institutional problems, emerging economies have continued to grow, armed conflicts have widened, climate change has become evident, energy problems have become acute, many people have died from lack of food and medical care. despite the ultra-nationalists and the eurosceptics, europe cannot - and will not - stop.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, lisbon and rome are the starting points for a humanity without frontiers. the dream of global justice and cosmopolitan law runs through the history of the european union. it's the story of the moral will that has taken root in institutions and transformed the old paradigms of politics. it shares the method, the reason, the criterion, the human dignity as the end, the sovereignty of rights instead of the sovereignty of borders, all that made europe the home of the enlightenment. in this march towards large-scale democracy, the lisbon treaty reconciled the european parliament with its parliamentary nature, broke the legislative hegemony of the europe of governments, and brought new leadership figures to the fore for more competition, more politics and less bureaucracy. it is true that the european constitution, with its potential for unity and cohesion, has been delayed, but a post-national europe is already being born. babel will no doubt build its tower.
the idea that i think is essential to stress at this point is the importance and meaning of signals in politics, and we have a duty to send the right signals to the citizens. rather than continuing in this parliament to debate the differences between the constitutional treaty and the treaty of lisbon or how the member states should proceed with its ratification, is it not time to talk about what we will do once the treaty has come into force, as we hope? that is what we told our citizens, that institutional reform was needed to produce more and better results. well, there's the pension. will europe in a year's time be better prepared to deal with globalisation, energy dependence, the demographic crisis, terrorism, financial instability, the shifting nature of jobs? it has to be. is the european parliament more energetic in actively collaborating in the adoption of these reforms? it has to be. that's the right signal to take out of here today, not to do like the chinese proverb, where when the wise man points to the sky, we look at the finger. let us look to our future, mr president, and accept the duty to build it.
in writing. as the ratification process of the lisbon treaty is under way, the european parliament is once again going beyond its powers by trying to influence public opinion with a report claiming to approve the treaty, and by pressing all the member states of the union to ratify it in time for its entry into force on 1 january 2009. it is a political deception, since it is not your responsibility to approve european treaties. this is the responsibility of the member states: first, by the intergovernmental conference; then, by ratification by each member state, in accordance with the basic legislation of its own country. since they now want to avoid referenda to avoid a repeat of the rejection of the treaty, as happened in france and the netherlands in 2005, in principle there will only be a referendum in ireland. this evasion of the referendum, using the most varied pretexts, reveals the fear of the consequences of the vote of the citizens in portugal and in the other countries of the european union. they know that the content of the treaty of lisbon is a copy of the so-called european constitution, which they have renamed, just to try to deceive the citizens in the face of what is a genuine political fraud. that is why we are against this report.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty is the compromise that is possible to overcome the institutional crisis and to make the decision-making mechanisms essential to the functioning of an enlarged european union of 27 member states more flexible in the globalised and constantly changing world we live in today. i welcome the conferral of legal personality on the eu and the abolition of the three-pillar structure, with the introduction of a single institutional framework and the generalization of the community method. i welcome the measures which reflect greater transparency and democratic accountability, as well as increased participation and rights of european citizens, both in the field of information and in the legislative petition. i welcome the changes in the area of the elsj, where action is envisaged with more ambitious targets and more effective procedures, with the abandonment of intergovernmental procedures and instruments. i welcome the increased involvement of national parliaments, particularly in the monitoring of subsidiarity. i regret that several concessions had to be made, such as the postponement of the implementation of important elements such as the new voting system in the council, the british and irish opt-outs/opt-ins on the former third pillar, and i fear that the creation of an elected president of the european council will lose the advantages of the rotating presidencies without bringing added value to the functioning of the union, creating problems in the relationship between the different institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and in support of the resolution. however, a malfunction in the voting machine at the last moment prevented me from expressing my full approval in a material way. for the record, i give this explanation of vote.
in writing. - this is a regrettable resolution of the european parliament which is only intended to confuse citizens and to put pressure on member states to ratify the treaty of lisbon, since the european parliament has no powers for such approval. only the member states can ratify it. however, during the debate and the vote we supported democratic measures to introduce some pluralism into the debate and insisted on deepening democracy by calling for referendums. we therefore endorsed some of the proposals of our group, which unfortunately were rejected, in particular proposals which expressed our opposition to the treaty of lisbon, stressing some of its most serious aspects, such as the progressive militarization of the european union, in close connection with nato, imposing the strengthening of military budgets and providing for the conduct of military operations to preserve the values of the union and serve its interests. we also denounced the fact that the provisions of the current treaties, which the european court of justice recently relied on to justify social dumping and to make the collective action of workers subject to respect for the freedom to provide services (laval/vaxholm and viking line judgments), were taken up in full in the lisbon treaty, requiring that the right to collective action remain the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, adopted on 14 june, calls for the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. its objective is different: pressure, in particular to ratify the proposed treaty, so that it can enter into force on 1 january 2009, and propaganda. the report contains a whole series of fallacies and omissions which seek to conceal the real content and consequences of the proposed eu treaty. just a few examples: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. on the other hand, it omits the militarisation of the eu within nato; the liberalised single market, with its free movement of goods, capital and services, where competition prevails; economic and monetary union, with its euro, its european central bank and its stability pact; or the liberalisation of international trade as eu objectives and policies. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − we believe that it is first and foremost up to each country, in accordance with its own practices, traditions and needs, to determine how it organises, collects and compiles the relevant information, although we know that sometimes agreements are necessary to have comparable data and to make cross-country comparative studies possible. but in our view, the proposal for a regulation put forward by the european commission did not seem to us to ensure adequate protection of the confidentiality of data or to respect the various aspects involved in the complexity of collecting data of this kind. in the debate in the committee on employment and social affairs there was a great deal of insistence on adopting this proposal at first reading, which is also linked to the concern to ensure that all the conditions are met for the possible entry into force of the new treaty. although we supported some of the proposals which were put forward during the parliamentary proceedings, we have doubts about the result achieved, which was based on the agreement between the main political groups in the european parliament. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − the reliability of population and housing data in the european union is of great importance as they are key data for the design, administration and monitoring of various policies, often with a european component. the need for high quality annual population estimates is explained by its implications for two fundamental pillars of the union: the democratic process in the union, whose annual population estimates are part of the rigorous calculation of the qualified majority voting process in the council, and the objective of convergence of the structural funds, the main priority of eu cohesion policy, namely in determining the regions that are eligible. for these reasons, i consider this proposal to be of considerable political importance, since it contributes, as we have seen, to the greatest accuracy in the fulfilment of the democratic criteria and of the criteria of development and cohesion in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the lisbon strategy, a contribution to the 2008 spring european council, as i believe that the renewed lisbon strategy reinforces the ambitious objectives for european society as a whole, which are fundamental to tackling the opportunities and challenges of globalisation, demographic change, social imbalances, climate change, energy security, food security, economic growth and the integration of immigrants. a firm implementation of the lisbon strategy is therefore crucial to strengthening europe's competitive position on the world market through job creation, poverty reduction and social inclusion.
in writing. - first of all, we regret the rejection of the motion for a resolution we tabled on the lisbon strategy, which is all the more serious as we are at the beginning of the last cycle of the lisbon strategy. once again, the majority of the european parliament rejects a change of policy and expresses its full support for and involvement in the policies pursued so far: deregulation of labour markets and relations, liberalisation of essential goods and services (post, transport, telecommunications, energy, etc.) and their handing over to private exploitation, to the detriment of taxpayers, workers and the population. as we see in portugal, this rigidly neoliberal policy is increasingly being extended to other sectors. the increasing commodification of health, education and training has contributed to the worsening of social inequalities, and to greater poverty and social exclusion in the european union. they are now also insisting on deepening the external component of the lisbon strategy, that is, imposing economic and political constraints on third countries, many of them less developed, by requiring the opening up of these markets to the interests of the large european multinationals.
in writing. - having voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the majority of the parliamentary groups, by reviewing the constructive perspective and substance of the recommendations, in particular the need to invest in research, innovation and development, in policies to promote knowledge, in the opening up of markets, in the flexibility with security of labour markets, i still consider that some of the data presented in the alternative resolution are worthy of our concern. in fact, that is exactly why i could not follow the resolution of the communist group. two years after the end of the lisbon agenda, it must be acknowledged that the ambitious objectives set are far from being achieved (and it is not our comparative acceleration in the face of the slowdown in the us economy that deserves my applause). i believe, therefore, that it would be better to assume the need to finally follow the course which has been set and which has not been followed, rather than to try to achieve in two years what has not been achieved in eight years. the reasons and circumstances which justified the defence of the measures contained in the lisbon agenda remain - if not aggravated - so that the right path is being traced, it remains to actually comply with it.
in writing. - the majority of this european parliament, which is giving voice to the interests, aspirations and demands of the major employers' organisations, insists on the implementation of the so-called lisbon strategy, the economic guidelines presented by the european commission and the deepening of the neoliberal policies associated with them. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. all this, accompanied by greater job insecurity, insisting on flexicurity and the modernisation of pension schemes, that is, the devaluation and dismantling of the public and universal social security system, in the interest of private insurers. to ensure that member states meet these objectives, they recommend greater control and pressure on them, as if they were not also co-authors/responsible for the adoption of these guidelines. but, pretending to ignore the profound impact of such policies on the economic and social situation of the member states, they insist on more of the same. which we vehemently reject!
in writing. - considering that this report is specifically concerned with the national implementation of the lisbon strategy, i cannot help but take a closer look at the portuguese concerns of a portuguese member of parliament about the failure to implement the lisbon strategy - neither in terms of results nor in terms of measures - in my country. i recognize that in many respects the criticisms that can be made of portugal are identical to those that can and should be made of europe as a whole. but we are far from - and moving away, according to certain criteria, such as employment - from the lisbon objectives, and we are far from adopting the right policies to achieve these results. the balance of national public finances is a priority, but this balance must be achieved at the expense of reducing waste, rejecting non-productive expenditure and fairly sharing the burden of revenue. to achieve this by burdening household savings and reducing the actual obligations of the state is not the way. as in the private economy, competitiveness and success are achieved by providing the best services at the lowest cost. but without canceling out either side of the equation.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the international community, and for the eu to be able to play a more active role in the international community. the report calls for compliance with international standards on foreign investment and for better protection of foreign direct investment in these countries. clarifying that the meaning of such statements is nothing more or less than to privatize state-owned banks (!!!) and create national financial markets that are truly competitive and open to foreign banks (!!!). i mean, just putting these countries up for sale... and, consistent with the objective set out above, the eu's overriding interests in the considerable energy resources of the countries of this region are also highlighted, pointing out the need to ensure, without interruption on transport routes and with the greatest possible regularity, their energy supply. this is the real meaning of the eu's much-vaunted role in the world, and in particular of the current treaty proposal: its ambition to dominate the world politically and economically.
in writing. − the european union has sought to establish relations of proximity and dialogue through its neighbourhood policy. in the case of central asia, the definition of the new strategy and the partnership with five new states will contribute to efforts towards greater stability and increasing levels of socioeconomic, democratic and security development throughout this part of asia. we note the global interest in the stability of central asia, given that severe and prolonged crises in this region could have disastrous consequences and affect the eu and its member states. on the other hand, its geopolitical situation has been attracting increasing interest from economic and political powers such as russia, the us, china and turkey. i believe that the future of these relations, in the direction of greater stability and security and greater political, economic and social cooperation, must also take account of the human rights situation in each country and the strengthening of trade relations and energy cooperation, as well as meeting the development needs, combined with the commitments made to improve the living conditions of the citizens of this region.
after the unilateral declaration of independence by kosovo, the worst that could happen to us now is that the political impasse would put us in the undesirable position of being spectators to an escalation of tensions. it is therefore necessary to establish the lowest common denominator in defining our next decisions and actions, and in this perspective i was pleased, not to say hopeful, with what the presidency of the council said. we must remind kosovo that the path it now takes will inevitably determine its future relationship with the european union and that is why we are willing to help it and we have the obligation, even for reasons of our own interest, to extend not one but two hands to serbia and to say that we continue to believe firmly and firmly that serbia's future is in europe. twenty years after the implosion of the soviet empire, let us not provoke what the communists of that time failed to do: to place serbia in the exclusive sphere of moscow. we can't make that mistake.
the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo is not inevitable. it is a very serious event and a dangerous precedent in international law, with unforeseeable consequences for the stability of frontiers, particularly on the european continent. this is a flagrant violation of the charter of the united nations and the helsinki act. it is an illegal decision in the light of the most basic principles of international law. it is the artificial creation of a pseudo-state under controlled sovereignty - whatever that is, it will be anything but sovereignty - or rather a protectorate created and imposed by the us, nato and the eu through aggression and military occupation. it is an attempt to perpetuate through the politics of the done-it-now political, economic and military domination of this very important region of europe by the us and the major powers of the eu. this illegality should not be recognized, either formally or in fact, in particular by sending and participating in the eu mission to kosovo. this eu mission does not have a un mandate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european union, and the european union is a major contributor to the development of the european union. we must go deeper into the analysis, look for the causes and point to measures that do not call into question the progress of mankind and the gains of civilization that have been made in the meantime. the progress made by scientific progress, which has been applied to improving the living conditions of the population in terms of prevention and better health care, nutrition, housing and reduction of working hours, support for motherhood and fatherhood and childhood, which has allowed steady and regular increases in life expectancy, must not be questioned. the existence of public policies in key social areas, with particular emphasis on universal public services, particularly in the areas of health and education, has contributed decisively to this. but equally important was the legal recognition of workers' achievements in the organization and timing of work, in the improvement of health and safety conditions at workplaces, in earnings in respect of rest and holiday time, in living wages and in secure working relationships. but with the intensification of neoliberalism, in which the lisbon strategy, the stability pact and the guidelines of the european central bank are essential instruments, they have liberalized and privatised public services, and have multiplied precarious work, which particularly affects women. the extension of the age for access to pensions makes it even more difficult for young people to access employment with rights, coupled with greater difficulties in universal access to public services and adequate housing. all of this tends to lower the birth rate. hence the urgency of changing policies. this is why it is necessary to replace the lisbon strategy with a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, which opens up new horizons for europe, with decent jobs with rights, especially for women and young people, shorter working hours without loss of pay, better wages, eliminating discrimination, particularly wage discrimination, which affects women, greater economic and social cohesion, adequate protection and universal public social security, ensuring a better quality of life and greater social justice. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. this is also why we need a bigger budget to increase the financial resources needed for the least developed countries and why it is urgent for all member states to ratify and implement the un convention on the family reunification of migrant workers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, longer life spans and declining fertility rates mean that the european total dependency ratio will rise from the current 49% to 59% in 2025 and to 77% in 2050. the european union is thus faced with an unprecedented problem, since european cities will have a very high share of the elderly population in the future and will therefore be very different societies from those we know today. this will require major changes in important aspects of public policy. in addition to social security, we can think of health and care services, tax policy, land use planning, immigration, security, culture, tourism, leisure, etc. the financing of the reform system will also have to be re-thought so that it is not predominantly state-based, and yet in this case the revenue is not almost exclusively from wages. the demographic trend, given its magnitude, calls for an intersection of public administration and the social fabric, and the mobilization of all economic, cultural and social actors, who, in a structured way, must analyse and debate the different options for the measures to be taken. that is the merit of this report. once again we are faced with an area where the strengthening of social dialogue is necessary, urgent and even irreplaceable. i would like to say that i support the commission's view that the promotion of birth rates, because of its urgency and its scope, requires the definition of a long-term strategy. only in this way can preventive action be taken and at the same time help the european union to take advantage of the opportunities that also arise from a policy of promoting births.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the demographic future of europe has received considerable attention in this parliament. i myself, in collaboration with my colleague edite estrela, have already organised a public hearing on demography and solidarity between generations in lisbon during the debate on the bushill-matthews report. the report by mrs françoise castex, whose work i welcome, is part of a broader perspective, that of the demographic future of europe. the challenges of solidarity are not only between generations, they are also between regions, they include the integration of immigrants, human resources policies and, of course, the challenge of demographic renewal. this demographic change, ladies and gentlemen, requires that we take account of the importance of childcare services, which also facilitate the better integration of parents into the labour market and help to combat poverty, particularly in the case of single-parent families. but it is also important to bear in mind that some of the objectives, in this and other areas, which were set in time in barcelona, have not yet been achieved in a number of countries, and i would stress the greater participation of women in working life and the support for the employment of citizens over the age of 55. from a fiscal point of view too, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the member states consider the possibility of promoting effective measures to encourage an increase in the birth rate, so that the financial constraints on the option of having more children are reduced. let us be clear: it is still important that workers can, if they wish, extend their working lives within the legal framework existing in each member state, but the right to the legal retirement age must of course be guaranteed. and of course, progress towards greater sustainability of social security systems is essential. the future of europe in terms of population has a lot to do with immigration from the south, so education systems have to take into account the needs of immigrants and their families so that they can feel happy and fulfilled in the different member states of the union. in conclusion, i would say that the demographic future of europe also depends on us, on the european parliament. i'm sure we'll live up to our responsibilities.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs françoise castex, on her excellent work. demographic change is a major challenge for europe. a hundred years ago, the population of europe was 15 percent of the world's population. by 2050, it should represent only 5%. in the european union, each woman has on average 1.5 children, which is less than the 2.1 children needed to replenish the population. the situation is serious and will have negative consequences for the economy, social security systems and the very composition of society. this is why measures such as those recently adopted in portugal are necessary, investing over eur 100 million in covering the country with day nurseries and kindergartens, going beyond the targets of the lisbon strategy. the allocation of prenatal allowances to the most deprived pregnant women, family allowances for the children of immigrants, the extension of maternity leave, a 20% increase in family allowances for single-parent families, tax benefits for companies which set up or subsidize day-care centres for their employees, the creation of social maternity allowances, public support for medically assisted procreation - these are good examples for other countries.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating – and perhaps, even more, by thanking – both ms kallenbach and mr guellec on their reports, and also the committee on regional development on its excellent work both on the fourth cohesion report and on the report on territorial cohesion. the commission fully shares your views that european cohesion policy has played a major role in narrowing disparities across the european union and thus fostering european integration, and also getting the union closer to its people. therefore, the commission firmly rejects attempts to renationalise this policy. we also share your view that adequate financial resources for cohesion policy must be guaranteed in the future in order to deal with the anticipated new challenges which will affect all european territories. we have also to keep in mind that, at the same time, cohesion policy will have to continue to cope with regional disparities resulting from the most recent, and forthcoming, enlargements. let me reassure you that, in the context of the ‘lisbonisation’ of our policy, the main priority of european cohesion policy is, and will remain after 2013, the objective of narrowing disparities, as it is enshrined in the reform treaty. the solidarity dimension of the policy is central to this policy and the allocation of resources will certainly follow an inverse relation with the prosperity of countries and regions. this view is also shared by an impressive majority of stakeholders across the union. what is also shared is that european cohesion policy is much more than just a distributive mechanism of resources between member states and regions; this policy is first and foremost a development policy whose objective is to foster the endogenous development of all european regions. the commission also shares your concern about the need for more coherence between european cohesion policy and other community sectoral policies, especially rural development, research or competition. i would add here that the need for coherence between the different development policies also applies to the coordination between european cohesion policy and national polices. i am convinced that this is a key issue for the future of european cohesion, also in its territorial dimension. i fully share your view that the success of the territorial agenda and the leipzig charter depends on two conditions. first, we need to put in practice an integrated approach to the territorial development in order to avoid a piecemeal approach to our territories. a classic example here is thinking in categories of purely rural or urban strategies, which misses the key importance of the true economic regions. on the other hand, the integrated approach means also the need for integrating different sectoral policies both at the eu and member state level, which affect the development of all our territories. the second condition, as you rightly point out, is the need for the commission to monitor and to assess regularly the progress in the implementation of actions agreed under the territorial agenda, and here we need to know more about the effects of these actions in the member states so that the commission can offer them adequate assistance. for example, on the basis of better monitoring, the commission can further progress in the area of defining indicators of territorial cohesion. clearly the commission sees as good news – as does your report – the introduction of the notion of the territorial dimension of cohesion in the lisbon treaty, and now we have to make the most of this new dimension of cohesion policy and the avenues it opens up such as, for example, the new definition of subsidiarity giving more weight to local and regional authorities. that is why the commission included the green paper on territorial cohesion in our legislative and work programme for 2008. even if there is no standard definition of the concept yet, territorial cohesion synthesises the legal objectives of the union to achieve a sustainable balance and harmonious development of its territory and also to provide equity of access to services of general interest. we are all aware today that there are a number of aspects of territorial balance in the union which threaten the harmonious development of the union economy and society in the years to come. they are at eu, national and regional level and also in some specific areas and with regard to outermost regions. i am pleased to confirm that the key recommendations made in ms kallenbach’s report, as regards the definition of the concept of territorial cohesion and the implementation of an integrated approach to territorial development, and also the improvement of the synergies between community policies, are all taken on board in the preparation of our green paper that will be adopted by the college next september. let me also use this opportunity to inform you that we are progressing with the member states in our common understanding of territorial cohesion and its key components. we are currently working on the responses to the questionnaire which we have sent to 25 member states on territorial cohesion, thus clearly making progress possible. we have also established in the commission an inter-service group which is giving us a framework to work in-house on territorial cohesion, and we have already completed the first part of this exercise: the identification of the territorial dimension of key eu policies. we have now embarked on the process, specifically on the process of developing some tools which also match your request. as you probably know, investigating territorial impact assessment of policies and also developing territorial cohesion indicators are among the priorities of the new strengthened espon programme. as regards urban affairs, in march we will have the next urban audit which is currently finalised and the second report on the state of european cities is due for june 2009. urbact ii has now been upgraded to a strategic instrument for networking and for exchanges in urban development. my feeling is that we have, in the case of both reports, a high coherence of your views and of those of the commission, and i now look forward to the debate for a better understanding of your concerns.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. - i begin this speech by regretting that the committee on regional development has not incorporated any of the proposals that the committee on fisheries has put forward for the fourth cohesion report. proposals reiterating, for example, the contribution of the fisheries sector to the socioeconomic situation of fishing communities in convergence regions or suffering from permanent geographical or natural disadvantages, such as the outermost regions, but also poor fishing communities in prosperous regions, or regretting that the financial amount of the european fisheries fund in a european union of 27 does not differ significantly from the budget allocated to the fifg in a european union of 15, stressing that the eff should be financially strengthened. i therefore tabled two amendments in the plenary to stress the importance of structural fisheries policy for economic and social cohesion.
gue/ngl. - (fr) in this brief statement on such an important issue as the future of cohesion policy at european union level, we would only underline some of the fundamental principles which we think should guide this debate. firstly, regional policy is an indispensable instrument for promoting the pursuit of economic and social cohesion, a structural policy whose first and main objective, as has already been stated, is to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the less-favoured regions, to promote real convergence and to stimulate growth and employment, and it must therefore be an instrument of redistribution and of intended compensation for the increased costs of the single market, economic and monetary union and the liberalisation of international trade for the less developed countries and regions of the european union. secondly, cohesion policy and the financial means associated with it should be used to promote economic, social, environmental and territorial development projects, and should not be subordinated to a policy that has as its priority and dogma competition, deregulation or the so-called adaptability and entrepreneurship that are priorities of the lisbon strategy. in other words, we believe that so-called competitiveness should not be a substitute for convergence in member states and regions which are lagging behind in their socioeconomic development. thirdly, the current community financial resources for cohesion policy are insufficient to meet the needs of real convergence, regional disparities, high levels of unemployment, income inequalities and poverty in the european union, and we therefore reiterate the need for an increase in the community budget, with the central and overriding objective of promoting economic and social cohesion at european union level.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur of my group, mr ambroise guellec and mr iratxe garcía, on the quality of their report and their openness to dialogue in the interests of cohesion. it recognises the report, and well, the enormous effort made (in particular in portugal, spain, greece, ireland) towards growth and convergence. it will, however, have to be continued and deepened, targeting the states most lacking in solidarity and cohesion, but also some of the regions of those states, and because the process of assessing wealth cannot be dependent on gdp alone, it will have to be extended to other criteria. in this connection, i have presented contributions which aim to clearly recognise insularity and ultraperiphery as constraining instruments of development and, in particular, in accordance with article 299 (2) of the treaty, and as commissioner hübner has said, accessibility problems are one of the greatest obstacles to their development, so it is important to adapt community policies to take account of this constraint resulting from insularity and ultraperiphery.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr guellec for the excellent work he has done and for the intelligent and determined way in which he has stressed and advocated the promotion and strengthening of a policy of solidarity with europe's regions after 2013. in fact, with this report, more than the evaluation of the impact of cohesion policy in the years 2000 to 2006, we have opened the debate on what cohesion policy we want for the period after 2013. so in keeping with that, i leave one note on the present and three on the future. the first point to note is that, as the fourth report shows, cohesion policy continues to be essential to reduce the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the less favoured regions, in other words to produce a more harmonious, solidary and viable european union. but it is worth remembering that, in addition to this essential objective, cohesion policy has made a decisive contribution to the completion and deepening of the internal market, to the success of successive enlargements, to the creation and consolidation of the single currency and to the growing identification of citizens with the european union. a second note to note is that cohesion policy must now play a new role, enriched and strengthened by the new dimension of territorial cohesion enshrined in the lisbon treaty, valuing the diversity and complementarity of the territories and firmly committing itself to a polycentric development of the european union. the report by mrs kallenbach, to whom i also wish to congratulate, gives us some good clues in this respect. a third point to note is that cohesion policy must increasingly take into account and respond to challenges such as those posed by globalisation, migration, ageing of the population, climate change, energy diversification, research and technological development. it is therefore logical to talk about increased resources for a strengthened regional policy. finally, a renewed perspective for the outermost regions will be needed to ensure that they can continue to feel comfortable in the european space. it will be imperative to find new answers to serious problems such as the isolation and lack of accessibility and the competitive disadvantages faced by these regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy, a community policy par excellence, has a primary role in the affirmation of a europe of solidarity, close to its citizens, of all and for all. this is a clear demonstration of the importance of the union in the daily life of each european citizen. enlargement to 27 has brought changes in nature, and the goals europe now proposes are different from those which were at its genesis. the challenges we now face, such as globalisation, population decline, desertification of certain regions or climate change, combined with the increasing frequency and scale of natural disasters, are much more demanding and require greater effort on our part. innovation has also imposed new targets on this policy, which now, although with more challenges and a larger union, has not seen its budget share increase proportionately. but it has adapted, it has adapted in the name of solidarity, which has led to, for example, regions which were formerly under objective 1 being considered rich regions and not eligible because of the statistical effect. it is therefore urgent to ensure that we narrow the gaps by having access to an adequate budgetary base and without having to abandon some regions of this vast union to their fate. the adoption of the treaty of lisbon has reinforced this, it has finally put territorial cohesion on the table of the law, and this is of the utmost importance in terms of cohesion policy. it is essential that this policy be tackled not only in an economic and social way but also that solidarity between the regions ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. − in a european union where there is a proliferation of directives on detailed matters which would be better dealt with at the level of each member state, taking into account its specificities and degree of development, it is interesting to see how the european commission acts in relation to monitoring compliance with community law. one of the conclusions that can be drawn is that there are very different ways of acting, depending on the directorates-general, but it is not clear whether there are also differences in action between the member states, although practice tells us that, in general, there is greater rigour with small and medium-sized countries than with the european powers. look at what has happened to the stability pact. this latest report introduces a new element which the committee on petitions of the european parliament welcomes. the annual report and its annexes contain, for the first time, a specific and detailed treatment of petition-related offences.
in writing. - this report by the european parliament introduces certain elements which may be positive, although with some contradictions, namely: it equally holds all those involved in the placing of a product on the market, from the manufacturer to the distributor and the importer, but without clarifying how. it also allows the maintenance of national markings which, under the european commission's proposal, would disappear and only the ce mark would be recognised. the compromise now replaces the reference to national markings with other markings. the commission also stresses that the framework is not mandatory but that those who adopt it will have to follow it and introduces a reference to smes, calling for their specificities to be taken into account. however, the objective of the european commission proposal, which is not called into question in the report, is to facilitate the functioning of the single market by removing the obstacles which still remain, but it does not apply to certain sectors of activity, namely foodstuffs, animal feedingstuffs, animal health and welfare, tobacco products, veterinary medicinal products, medicinal products for human use, human blood and tissues and cells of human origin, for which there are already harmonised standards.
in writing. − the european commission's argument in proposing this regulation is that the principle of mutual recognition is hampered by a number of problems (i.e. products marketed in one member state may be prevented from being marketed in another) and considers that the possibility of national technical rules raising unlawful obstacles to the free movement of goods between member states needs to be reduced. it thus lays down the requirements which the authorities must fulfil when they intend to enforce a national technical rule, with the burden of proof being on them. in other words, it imposes conditions with the clear aim of restricting the ability of each state to apply its rules. the european parliament's report adds further obstacles to the action of each state, such as: this regulation aims to strengthen the functioning of the internal market with fair and undistorted competition, improving the free movement of products while ensuring a high level of consumer protection and product safety. in practice, member states are prohibited from restricting the sale on their territory of products when they are manufactured and marketed in another member state, even if they do not fully comply with the rules of the member state of destination.
in writing. - while we support many of the concerns expressed in the resolution, they fall far short of the necessary denunciation and condemnation of israel's colonialist policy towards palestine and its people. among other things: - the resolution once again calls for the aggressor and the aggressed, the occupier and the occupied to be placed on the same level, thus whitewashing israeli state terrorism; - i know . the resolution does not condemn the criminal blockade imposed by israel on the gaza strip and its population, nor does it denounce the connivance or silence of the us or the eu in this regard; - i know . the resolution says nothing about the deplorable statements made by commissioner frattini, responsible for justice and home affairs, who said that the eu would be prepared to incorporate israeli concerns and interests in a way that was not on our agenda in the early years of the intifada, and it is at the very least abhorrent that someone who talks so much about terrorism not only whitewashes state terrorism, but is prepared to collaborate with it. for our part, we continue to condemn israel's apartheid policy against palestine and to advocate the full realization of the inalienable rights of the palestinian people, enshrined in numerous un resolutions.
in writing. the european parliament, which has been in the european parliament since the beginning of the year, has been in favour of the introduction of a new system of voting by simple majority, and has also called for the adoption of a new system of voting by qualified majority. we would also like to stress the unacceptable pressure that you put on each member state to make its position in this united nations body dependent on the positions that the eu will adopt, thus subordinating its sovereignty in its foreign policy. or the political reading that is withdrawn from the countries mentioned - and also from those not mentioned - once again demonstrating the application of double standards, that is, the instrumentalisation of human rights in the interests of the eu.
in writing. - we regret that not all the proposals we put forward to improve the report, to question some causes and to include measures which we consider essential to defend the rights of women, families and children have been accepted. for example, we know how low wages and precarious employment exacerbate social instability and, as a result, drastically reduce stable prospects for people to choose to have children. improving employment stability, increasing wages, deepening social security and occupational health and safety, reducing overall working time without loss of pay, a more equitable distribution of income and full employment are therefore key proposals for managing demographic change. equally important is the creation of new and improved educational and social infrastructure for both young and old, including more lifelong learning, childcare, nursing and elderly care facilities, which requires more and better public services, with equal access guaranteed for all. the report does not give an effective answer to these problems, because it does not fully promote them, even though it contains positive proposals which we welcome, but which are not sufficient to give us a favourable vote.
in writing. − the renewal of europe's populations is a crucial factor for the balance between young and old and for the increase in the active population. the consequences of the current decline in birth rates and the increase in life expectancy will contribute to an increase in dependency in the elderly and the decline in the working population. it is therefore important to take measures to promote demographic change so as to achieve a more productive and advanced europe with a high level of social protection and solidarity between the generations. we must develop policies that encourage the continuous renewal of europe's population and ensure continued economic competitiveness, while preserving the european social model. we cannot ignore another aspect of this issue, which is linked to europe as the destination of important migratory flows, since these populations invariably contribute to increased birth rates. the intersection of demographic and migration issues has potential risks, and we cannot simply rely on these populations for demographic renewal. i would therefore like to emphasize the measures to stimulate the birth rate, accompanied by appropriate policies in the field of education and training and solidarity between the generations, aimed at preventing demographic decline in europe.
in writing. - although the present report contains some aspects which, although measured, we consider positive, it does not effectively address the major issues of substance. the approach it takes to the community financial resources needed for an effective cohesion policy is an example of such a commitment. it recognises in the recitals that greater resources must be guaranteed for cohesion policy in the future in order to meet new challenges (whether or not they are related to cohesion is a question which has yet to be clarified), but in the text, i.e. in the concrete proposal, it only refers to an ambiguous need to strengthen cohesion policy and that sufficient financial resources should be allocated to it... unfortunately, the amendments we tabled were rejected. the proposals were aimed at: recognising that there are countries and regions at odds with the eu; preventing the instrumentalisation of cohesion policy for other purposes, in particular to finance objectives in the lisbon strategy which are contrary to cohesion; recognising the need to increase the community's financial resources for cohesion; making community aid to enterprises conditional on not encouraging relocations; pointing out the need for permanent measures with adequate funding for the outermost regions; recognising the role of fisheries in cohesion.
in writing. - cohesion policy is one of the european union's hallmarks, one of its greatest successes and also one of the main attractions of our community. the idea that it is right and necessary to ensure an identical level of development throughout the territory of the various member states is a concept which we must not abandon and whose positive outcome we must celebrate. but not all are successes in this field. on the one hand, it is important that the cohesion funds are increasingly integrated with other funding programmes in order to ensure that the benefits of these are not lost in the absence of a concomitant focus on policies directly targeting the most advanced stages of development. sometimes it is necessary to take bigger steps, otherwise we will always be late. on the other hand, it is worrying to see a consistent process of retreat by the portuguese state in guaranteeing equal access to basic services throughout its territory. what is the point of calling for community cohesion when it is absent from national policies, leaving the citizens of the less developed regions without a development idea but with a purely accounting view of the allocation of resources? not one.
in writing. - this report on the follow-up to the territorial agenda and the leipzig charter contains aspects which we find interesting. however, it should be noted that the actual content of the territorial dimension of cohesion policy is still to be defined, with the adoption of a green paper on this subject being announced for september. although many of the objectives set out above are welcome and make perfect sense - such as the development of a balanced and polycentric urban system and the partnership between cities and the countryside, ensuring access to infrastructure, the protection of nature and cultural heritage, the preservation of quality public spaces and the enhancement of the real estate and urban facilities, the promotion of the local economy, local labour market policy or an active education and training policy for children and young people - we would stress that:- land management and planning should be a competence of each member state; - that new priorities should be matched by new financial resources; - that the territorial dimension should not interfere with or dilute economic and social cohesion, i.e. the reduction of disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the less favoured regions.
as underlined in our group's motion for a resolution, what is essential at this time is to express solidarity with the timorese people and to condemn the attacks on the president of the republic and the prime minister of timor-leste, to stress that such attacks can only be aimed at deepening the instability in the political situation in timor-leste, created by the events of 2006 and 2007 and maintained by the political process resulting from the last legislative elections in this country, to call for a thorough investigation to be carried out within the legal and constitutional framework of timor-leste to identify and prosecute those mainly responsible for such attacks, to warn of possible manoeuvres that, in the light of these events, aim to justify further developments in the action of external interference and that put the independence and sovereignty of timor-leste in question. we therefore disagree with the joint resolution of the european parliament which, among other things, seeks to shrug off all external interference which has been aimed at conditioning and shaping the free choices of the timorese people, seeks to discredit, by trying to put everyone in the same box, the main perpetrators and mentors of the violence and destabilisation of the situation in timor-leste, seeks to omit that, in order to understand the current situation in timor-leste, it is necessary not to forget that its people were victims of colonialism, brutal repression and the destruction of the country, and that its people heroically won independence and sovereignty, in particular over its natural resources, in a very recent past, including in a context in which, at key moments of the struggle, it was abandoned by the so-called international community. a resolution which, although it mentions respect for the sovereignty of the people of east timor, is a repository of interference in the internal affairs of that country. in fact, it is part of a vision that seeks to present east timor as a so-called failed state. finally, a resolution which emphasizes that the solution is political and that it is solely in the hands of the people of east timor. the timorese people have already given more than enough examples of dignity and courage and we express our confidence in their ability to assert east timor as a sovereign and independent country with their own hands.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i would also like to ask for an independent inquiry, as is requested in the resolution before us and which we support, to ascertain who attacked, what it represented and what went wrong in the east timorese, timorese and, above all, international security apparatus. i think this episode shows that the international community has to make a supplementary effort to strengthen the institutions of the state in east timor and, in particular, to reform the security apparatus, which had already been put in question in the 2006 crisis. the questions of justice, the enforcement of justice, law and order are also essential, and in this context i must say how the efforts of national reconciliation towards rebel groups may have given a negative, counterproductive signal of impunity that has launched the rebels into this miserable attack. east timor is not a failed state, it has nothing to do with somalia, as my colleague onyszkiewicz wanted to make clear a little while ago. east timor has achieved its independence heroically against the silence of the international community, and the timorese people have demonstrated on several occasions that they are committed to the democratic path. it has shown this once again in an exemplary way in the presidential and legislative elections last year, when i had the honour of heading the mission of this parliament. there is a responsibility of the international community now, which must be seen in supporting east timor, in coordinating that support, which has clearly failed in the security apparatus, in resolving the essential structural issues of the timorese state. from the point of view of what have been the signals given by the timorese people, without a doubt, they want democracy, they want the rule of law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. "we may be defeated or we may be fought, but only united". unfortunately, on 11 february, the crisis returned to east timor, and again by the same petitioners who had already been responsible for the crisis two years ago. that raises some questions. the return of old acquaintances who undermine the stability of a country, and the seriousness of an attack which has hit - could have been fatal - has hit the president of the republic, josé ramos horta, very hard, and has also hit, fortunately without personal consequences, prime minister xanana gusmão. the violence and the disruption of the normal functioning of the institutions once again exposes the shortcomings of a country with the history and circumstances of timor, which fought and is fighting courageously for independence, democracy and progress. those who have supported him from the beginning cannot help but feel saddened by this incident, which we strongly condemn, and we wish for the full recovery of president ramos horta, a thorough investigation into what has happened and finally the necessary response. what is lacking, from the outset, is the international forces, whose action has not been as prompt as desirable, with the exception of the portuguese gnr; the obvious flaws in the rule of law in timor, which is not fully functioning, which has not fully functioned and which needs to rebuild the heart of its security system in order to guarantee public order. the international community must assist the timorese in these steps. it is not a failed state, it is a state with shortcomings, which we must support. but the main responsibility obviously lies with the timorese themselves, who must be able to define a transparent commitment to profound pacification, respect for the rule of law, for judicial decisions, without hesitation, without distortions or complacency, and who have been able to agree on what we call regime pacts as to the heart of the functioning of the state. it is this pact of union that ruy cinatti invoked in his poem, and this is the most sensitive need of east timor. so, dear friends, what is indispensable is that we help the timorese to help themselves and to make their country stronger and stronger.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i want to support the joint resolution condemning the attacks. i would also like to congratulate the institutions of the state of timor for the calm with which they have responded to the tragedy, and i would like to stress, as members ana gomes and ribeiro e castro have already done, that timor is not a failed state. it is a state that needs international help, it needs a delegation from the european commission in timor, it needs the un mission to be extended and it needs all of us to support all initiatives that can promote the unity of the timorese, respect for the law and condemnation of all violence.
author. − mr president, in january of this year, 10 young activists of the belarusian popular front youth and malady front (‘young front’) were arrested after they met a delegation of the democrat youth community of europe (demyc) in minsk, and then faced expulsion from their universities. this is the last real dictatorship in europe. belarus still has the death penalty, political prisoners, arbitrary arrests, media censorship, violence and restrictions on access to the internet. all europeans should not take their liberty for granted, and young europeans should follow the demyc example in showing solidarity with their neighbours by standing up for democracy and human rights. belarus cannot be a partner of the eu while this intolerable intimidation and targeted arrests continue. reading the official internet biography of president lukashenko, i became aware that he considers himself to be ‘notable for his in-depth understanding of events, hard work, sense of duty, realism, fairness and fidelity to principles’. why, then, can mr lukashenko not realise a very simple and plain fact: soviet-style tyrants belong in the past? as to the students, repressed and deprived of their fundamental right to education, i urge our parliament to join me in paraphrasing the song: hey, lukashenko, leave the kids alone!
author. - mr president, it is precisely to correct the names of the organizations mentioned in paragraph 3. you have the correct designations in the voting lists, so there is no need to repeat them.
madam president, on 13 february 1883 the educational and benevolent society 'the worker's voice' was founded in lisbon, which has been working hard for 125 years in the fields of education, culture, associations and social support, and to which i extend my greetings. it is an ongoing activity, with two schools currently in operation whose aim is to equip hundreds of children with skills that enhance their development, creating the conditions for their adaptation to the social context in which they fit in a critical and sustained way, based on the principles of justice and solidarity. this intense and recognized activity continues to this day despite the difficulties it currently faces due to lack of government support, the result of the failure of the ministry of education to fulfill its obligations, moreover, the same ministry that tramples on the rights of teachers, which motivated the largest demonstration of teachers in portugal - the "march of indignation" - with a hundred thousand teachers, mostly... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the portuguese teachers who took part in an impressive and magnificent 'march of indignation' with the participation of 100,000 education professionals, held in lisbon on 8 march, following an initiative by the national federation of teachers. faced with the attack by the socialist party government on the rights of teachers, the democratic management of schools and the public school system, teachers reaffirmed their determination to fight for the dignity, employment, rights and better conditions of teachers, and to defend quality education and the public school system in portugal.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, five brief notes. first, divide and rule. i am not surprised by the us administration's strategy of seeking to negotiate bilaterally with member states of the union. the tactic of 'divide and rule' is old and understandable, but we cannot accept that member states of the union should be complicit in this strategy. secondly, the weakening of the european position. the negotiations between the commission and the us administration have been long. it is regrettable that any member state should decide to sign any bilateral agreement, especially on the eve of the ministerial troika between the european union and the united states, which will take place this thursday in slovenia, weakening the european union's common position on american demands. thirdly, the breakdown of solidarity. as the european parliament's rapporteur on schengen, i have followed the calls for the early enlargement of the schengen area and the abolition of internal borders. the demonstrations of joy of just two months ago seem to ignore today that we are managing a common space. i condemn in the strongest terms this lack of european solidarity. fourthly, the legality of the agreement. there is a disturbing veil of secrecy about some details of the agreement that are still unknown. it will be particularly serious if it seeks to go beyond the agreement between the european union and the united states on the sharing of pnr data, and especially unacceptable if it allows, directly or indirectly, the united states to access european databases such as those in the vis or sis. fifth and last, freezing of these agreements. i call on the council to reach an urgent consensus to freeze these undesirable bilateral agreements, and i call on commissioner frattini and the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, to use all the instruments at its disposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. - i also begin by congratulating the rapporteur and telling him that the envi committee believes that a combination of measures is necessary to ensure a sustainable transport system for future generations. traffic management, better logistics, tax incentives for transport and green fuels, safe, environmentally friendly, efficient and accessible public transport systems, modernisation of railways, non-motorised mobility, etc. are some of these measures, and information and education campaigns for young people are also needed. we support the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading scheme and advocate similar legislation for the maritime transport sector, as well as the adoption of ambitious and binding limit values for co2 emissions from cars, making them more fuel efficient. it is therefore desirable that the european union should support research to develop technologies necessary for the creation of sustainable and environmentally friendly transport, such as the development of alternative and renewable fuels such as hydrogen and fuel cells.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report i am presenting to you concerns the fisheries agreement concluded with a small african country which, after more than a decade of armed struggle for independence, has experienced in recent years enormous political instability, punctuated even by periods of civil war. fishing is an important economic resource for this small country and the financial contribution it makes to its budget is very important. but this is not a fisheries agreement to buy fish. this is not the position of the european union in accordance with its partnership philosophy. the european union's policy is inspired by other values and has as its main concerns the sustainability of resources and an effective partnership approach. it is therefore an agreement with mutual benefits: for the european union, of course, because its fleet has access to important fishing areas, but also for guinea-bissau, which, in addition to the financial compensation, will be in a better position to manage more sustainably what is perhaps its greatest economic resource, through support for research, control, surveillance and the improvement of the health conditions of fishery products. it is therefore a balanced and mutually beneficial agreement, and i therefore recommend that parliament approve my report, with the amendment introduced by the committee on development and with my own amendments, which are intended only to strengthen parliament's position in monitoring these matters, and i believe that, despite the statements the commissioner has just made about the apparent unacceptability of these proposals, the fisheries policy can only benefit from a more positive and more permanent position of parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first of all like to say that i deeply regret the allegedly moralistic attitude which some members are trying to instill in this debate and which reveals nothing more than, in my view, a gross ignorance of what is reasonably at stake. i am fairly familiar with guinea-bissau, its political, economic and social situation and its recent history, and i am well aware of the attack on guinea-bissau's resources by the fishing fleet of the former soviet union in the late 1970s and the predatory, indeed predatory, attitude of some of our competitors in terms of fishing on a global scale. i think that the philosophy which guides the union's fisheries policy is something to be proud of and not ashamed of, and it is a pity that the other fishing powers do not follow our example. the fact that the committee on development voted unanimously in favour of the report and the committee on fisheries overwhelmingly in favour of my report is proof of this. i think that this is the way forward, with political realism, and the way that best serves the interests not only of the european union but also of the people of guinea-bissau. i therefore urge parliament to approve this report because it is a politically balanced report and a partnership agreement which is mutually beneficial for the parties to it.
mr president, 2009 is going to be, by all indications, a year of opportunity. one of the most positive aspects of overcoming the institutional impasse is the possibility of directing our synergies to other issues, allowing us to concern ourselves more with policy. for several years now, we have been talking about globalisation and climate change, about the insecurity of our borders and the instability of our neighbourhood. for decades, we have been thinking about the challenges of emerging new economies and africa's new role in the world. theorizing about the big challenges and the answers to them is important, but europe cannot be a mere spectator, even if interactive, of change. europe must be an actor, a factor of reform, an inducer of development. among the various political priorities identified by the european commission, madam vice-president, is that of the communication. there is no better communication policy than the confirmation of results. the importance and usefulness of europe for its citizens must be perceived, felt and recognised. that is how we gain their trust, the trust of the citizens, and how we give them what is demanded of us.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a 'greater degree of harmonisation' of common rules in the field of civil aviation security at eu level - such as for screening of passengers and cabin baggage, access control or security screening of aircraft - by repealing the 2002 regulation adopted in the wake of the events of 11 september 2001 in the usa. among other things, we criticise the fact that there is no guarantee that the costs of security measures will not be passed on to the users of these services, which are of an eminently public nature. or, indeed, that users will not be overtaxed at the expense of these measures. the commission has also not clarified the elimination of a whole series of security measures which have already been widely criticised, particularly as regards their effectiveness. it should also be noted that, as regards workers, the limitation of access to the 'airside' for safety reasons has been used to restrict workers' freedom of association. the current text does nothing to prevent such abuses or to protect these rights. finally, the regulation clearly opens the door to the presence of armed personnel on flights, a measure which we consider to be wrong, also for safety reasons.
in writing. − in recent years, civil aviation safety has been challenged in a concrete, deadly and unprecedented way. every effort has been made to ensure that threats to the lives of passengers and crew are dealt with in a responsible manner, and yet we find that the rules are still far from keeping up with the pace and creativity of the criminals. we cannot therefore delay any longer, nor can we debate any longer a false sense of security that we take for granted. the legislation we are voting on today is only part of the legislative action that the union has been taking to ensure stronger and clearer protection for its citizens. in the field of civil aviation, it is therefore essential that we have flexible instruments which can create a maximum protection environment for citizens and which can be easily and properly evaluated. i therefore vote in favour of the agreement reached by this parliament in conciliation, which will guarantee the protection of citizens, the safety of civil aviation and constant vigilance against those who threaten our security and threaten democratic institutions and the rule of law.
in writing. - as we said at the first reading, our position on the creation of the european institute of technology is very critical, following the position taken by several research organisations. following the positions of scientific organisations which criticised this proposal, and taking into account the european institute of innovation and technology, we voted in favour of the proposal which rejected the council's common position, but which was unfortunately rejected. furthermore, there is no adequate funding. one of the possibilities for funding is the community budget, including research funds, which can be another way of supporting the more developed countries, thus contributing to the widening of inequalities. after pressure from several countries, who wanted to keep the institute, it became virtual, a kind of consulting office for scientific communities in different fields. the european parliament itself has approved several amendments to the commission's proposal, but we do not think they are sufficient to correct what has gone wrong.
in writing. - in view of the agreement reached between the council and parliament, to which the european commission raised no objections, i believe that today's adoption, at second reading, of the recommendation for the adoption of a regulation establishing the eit is a particularly important moment, as it marks the actual birth of this important project. for several years now, the european union has identified innovation and knowledge as central to responding to the challenges of globalisation and the emergence of new large-scale economic players. in this context, the specific focus - which is the central axis of this project - on research and development as an economic weapon is an initiative that deserves the greatest support. as to whether a real campus or the community-based solution would be better, only time will tell which should have prevailed. in any case, the important thing - indeed the fundamental thing - is that there is flexibility and a constant ability to adapt the model to the best solutions. otherwise the innovation mentor would lack the capacity to innovate, an unforgivable mistake when building efficiency models.
in writing. the text adopted today approves the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the united kingdom following the floods in the summer of 2007 in that country. as the declared losses exceed the threshold from which this mechanism can be activated for the united kingdom, which is about eur 4 612 000 000, the consequences of the floods have been classified as a 'catastrophe of major proportions' and the commission has proposed the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for an amount of eur 162 387 985. the ep's committee on regional development in its opinion calls on the council to reach agreement on the commission's proposal for a revision of the regulation establishing the fund, which it has not done since the ep adopted its position at first reading on 18 may 2006, with our critical vote. in our view, the ep's position does not, among other things, safeguard the continued eligibility of regional disasters or the possibility of recognizing the specific nature of mediterranean natural disasters and adapting this fund - in terms of deadlines and eligible actions - to the specific nature of natural disasters such as drought and fires. aspects to be safeguarded!
in writing. − the first amendment to the community budget for 2008 includes the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to the tune of some €162.4 million for great britain - taking into account the consequences of the floods in that country in 2007 - as well as the creation of new budget lines and transfers between budget lines, which do not affect the total amounts of the budget as a whole. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) has its staff increased by 25 posts, from 69 to 94, taking into account the budget increase already made for this agency - some eur 30 million - approved during the discussion of the 2008 community budget. the agency's activities are gradually being consolidated, since it is entrusted with responsibilities which are at the heart of the sovereignty of the states. the agency, which among other things supports the so-called 'fortress europe' and the eu's security-oriented immigration policy. the creation of a new heading for 'exceptional expenditure relating to crises' is also worth mentioning, although it is not clear what is meant by 'crisis'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr luís manuel capoulas santos on a proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, as i considered that it was a balanced agreement which ensured the sustainability of fisheries and at the same time guaranteed the protection of the interests of both parties involved: the european union and guinea-bissau. i believe that the amendments tabled by the rapporteur make an important contribution to strengthening the european union's fisheries policy, in that they emphasize the importance of strengthening the information and role of the european parliament.
in writing. − established for the period between june 2007 and june 2011, the agreement between the ec and the republic of guinea-bissau provides for the allocation of 37 fishing licences, four of which to portugal. 35% of the ec financial envelope is intended to support initiatives adopted under the fisheries sector policy defined by guinea-bissau. emphasis will be placed on improving the health conditions of fishery products and on measures to monitor, control and monitor fishing activities. this is a particularly important area of action, given that, according to international bodies, the country's fisheries resources have been severely affected by illegal and unregulated fishing, among other reasons. it should also be noted that this agreement provides for the mandatory hiring of local crews, i.e. guinean crews, in accordance with the gross tonnage of the vessels. as in other agreements, it is envisaged that these crew members will be governed by the declaration of the international labour organisation (ilo). article 10 of the agreement also provides for the setting-up of temporary associations between community and guinean operators for the joint exploitation of resources. this is advantageous for community vessels, since they are thus exempt from paying licence fees.
in writing. − the main objective of the new eu-ivory coast partnership agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the parties in order to foster the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the ivorian fishing zone, with particular attention to supporting the ivorian fisheries policy. the two parties shall decide jointly on the priorities to be set for such support and shall define the objectives, the annual and multiannual programming and the criteria for assessing the results achieved, with a view to ensuring the sustainable and responsible management of the sector. the agreement respects the fundamental principles of the common fisheries policy and grants portugal a fishing licence for five surface longliners. this report therefore deserves the favourable vote of the psd members.
in writing. − this agreement provides for a total of 40 fishing licences to be allocated to vessels from eu countries - 5 of them to portugal - for a period of six years, starting in july 2007. compared with the previous agreement, this represents a significant reduction in fishing opportunities, but the agreement provides that the catch may increase. the parties agreed that the ec financial contribution would be used in its entirety to support initiatives adopted under the sectoral fisheries policy defined by côte d'ivoire. the shipowners benefiting from this agreement are obliged to employ at least 20% of their crew from acp countries. the agreement provides that these crew members will be governed by the international labour organisation (ilo) declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, which makes freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of workers to collective bargaining mandatory, as well as the elimination of discrimination in matters of employment and occupation. their wages shall be fixed by mutual agreement between the shipowners and the seamen or their representatives and shall not be lower than the standards applicable in their countries of origin, which may lead to non-compliance with the principle of equal pay for equal work.
in writing. - it is impossible to comment on all the important issues raised by this ep own-initiative report in this explanation of vote, given its complexity and breadth, but it is only to be noted that the document does not address, or addresses incorrectly, aspects which researchers point out as essential in addressing the problems of transport, energy and their impact on the environment. among others:- the failure to mention the already characterised 'peak oil' and its consequences;- the failure to mention the use of methane in road transport (in the form of cng, lng or biomethane);- the mystification of the use of hydrogen as an alternative fuel for road transport;- the uncritical re-orientation of the use of biofuels, with its dramatic consequences already widely demonstrated;- the omission of documents such as the 'target 2020' programme which advocates the replacement by 2020 of about 20% of petrol and diesel consumed in the european transport sector; finally, it should be stressed that, rather than listing the problems, which have already been clearly identified, policies are needed to deal with them effectively, such as questioning the current capitalist globalisation and the role of transport in this context, in particular the increasing geographical separation between production and consumption, increasing transport needs. there's a lot more to it than that.
in writing. − in recent decades, the transport sector has made major investments in energy efficiency, which have been successful and have brought environmentally and safety-wise technology to the market. and yet these efforts seem to be insufficient, since, in parallel, the constant growth of demand in this sector almost cancels them out. we need a new way of looking at this difficult equation in order to meet the challenge. the transport sector is a dynamic, technologically advanced and increasingly competitive economic sector. industry has made extensive investments in research and development in constant dialogue with institutional and private partners. however, greater coordination is needed to extract all the added value from our efforts. concrete actions in terms of information and awareness-raising of citizens and their behaviour are essential. in addition, concertation and coordination of improvements in fuel efficiency, investment in better regulation and incentives for a dynamic market for safer and less polluting vehicles and a focus on technological innovation are the lines of force we must pursue.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would also like to welcome the presence of the commissioner and the minister president of the council. the common agricultural policy is always the subject of passionate debate and consensus is always very difficult to achieve, but i can see that there is unanimity among all of us on the need for the continuation of a common agricultural policy whose objectives have just been reaffirmed in the treaty of lisbon. the pse group has been very active in this debate, in the parliamentary group, in the committee on agriculture, with the farmers' organizations we have tabled more than half of the 600 amendments to mr goebbels' report and we have endorsed 15 of the 17 commitments, comprising dozens of amendments. we have made a great effort and made important concessions to achieve the widest possible consensus in parliament and i would therefore like to ask mr goebbels very sincerely for the willingness to dialogue he has shown and for the genuine spirit of commitment he has shown, and also mr parish for the way he has conducted our work in the committee on agriculture. this is therefore the compromise that is possible, but it is not the socialist report. that is not the report we would have made, which we consider to be too backward and too conservative in relation to the expectations of society and farmers. however, the general approach of the report does not close the door to further discussion in the context of the discussion of the legislative proposal. i hope we can maintain the same spirit of commitment, but be more ambitious in defining a new direction for european agriculture. i am referring to the more sensitive issues, such as the direction and pace of the withdrawal of aid, a fairer mechanism for redistributing support, a responsible approach to the future of the milk sector, the new challenges, in particular the role of agriculture in combating climate change and the production of biofuels, etc. we will vote on this debate tomorrow with our eyes on the future. i call for a very broad vote on this report and also for the improvements which the socialists will make to make it an even more comprehensive report.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is intended to ensure that the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables is not affected by the introduction of the new rules on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. unfortunately, the european commission has not followed this path. it does not recognise that the common agricultural policy has led to a paradoxical situation. on the one hand, food prices continue to rise, and on the other hand, family farms continue to be destroyed and more and more small and mediumsized farmers continue to abandon production because they are not guaranteed a decent income, while speculative activities increase, making food products more and more scarce. it is therefore wrong to insist on dissociating aid from production and employment, and it is unacceptable to pursue a policy of supporting large landowners and multinational food companies and to devalue farmers who maintain agricultural and livestock production on the basis of the defence of biodiversity, food security and product quality. with the last reform in 2003, the situation has worsened. the subsequent revisions of the common market organizations in the sugar, fruit and vegetables, tobacco and wine sectors have maintained the injustice of the cap in all areas. we therefore insist on fundamental changes which respect the specific nature of agriculture in each country, which aim to link support to production as closely as possible, and which ensure a more equitable distribution of direct aid, accompanied by a ceiling and modulation. it is necessary to provide incentives for small and mediumsized farms as instruments of economic and social cohesion and to curb intensive farming and to support associations of these farmers, including agricultural cooperatives and cooperative wineries. we also support the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by community funds, which would guarantee a minimum income to farmers in the event of public disasters such as drought, storms, hail, fires, animal diseases, etc. we also insist on the need for the european commission to take account, in the context of the world trade organisation negotiations, of the specific features of agricultural production as a food production sector, a structural element of the territorial balances of environmental protection and safeguarding adequate levels of food safety, both in terms of quantity and quality. finally, we call on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to prevent speculative activities, control of the food market and the formation of cartels by the food industries which exploit the lack of legislation and control, the poor organisation of producers and consumers and the lack of adequate infrastructure, with the sole aim of increasing profits, reducing the price for producers and imposing high prices on consumers, as is currently the case, particularly in portugal, with basic products such as cereals, potatoes for consumption and milk.
madam president, the recent turbulence in the financial markets has shown that developments which have produced efficiency gains can also entail increased risks, with consequences for the soundness of the financial system and the health of the real economy. the review planned for 2007 thus acquired a heightened urgency and political dimension. europe is now called upon to produce prudent and effective responses to the increasing complexity of markets. it is also known that progress is possible without changing the central structure of the lamfalussy method, but as many of my colleagues have said, one of the most obvious and urgently needed tools for improvement is to strengthen the power of the quality of coordination between national regulators and supervisors, to improve the effectiveness of level 3, to increase its power, to increase its competence, to strengthen the mechanisms for managing turbulence and crisis situations and to ensure consistency of principles and practices. this joint is complex and does not arise spontaneously: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and it is a very important one. in view of the approach of the next european council, this apparent lack of transparency in the commission's planned initiatives is surprising. it is even more surprising that commissioner mccreevy is not present when parliament expressly requests him to provide information on the progress of the work. i would like to conclude by thanking commissioner almunia once again for his availability, although i think that a clarifying debate with the commissioner responsible is essential, given the specific nature of the subject, his technical expertise and the commission's duty to take concrete initiatives.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the situation of women in rural areas is strongly influenced by the situation of agriculture, suffering the consequences of unfair measures in the area of the common agricultural policy, which has led to an increasing abandonment of small and medium-sized farms and family farming. in many cases this situation pushes men and young people to emigrate, leaving women with children and the elderly behind, condemning them to poverty, a situation which is aggravated in rural areas of some countries, such as portugal, when schools, health centres, maternity hospitals, post offices and other public services are closed. that is why we must break with this policy. we therefore also tabled a number of amendments to stress the need for a revision of the common agricultural policy to take account of this problem, by increasing support for the maintenance of family farming and rural development, and by giving maximum value to the work of women, including migrant women, who also work in agriculture. we therefore hope that you will accept our proposals.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, it must be said that since 2005, with this committee, the lisbon strategy has come out of the slump it was in. i therefore ask the president-in-office: it is essential, as with the single currency, as with the internal market, to give the commission greater responsibility, to give the commission greater scope to be the pivot of the lisbon strategy, rather than continuing with the idea of intergovernmentalism which leads to nothing. the triangle education/research/innovation must be avoided by the simplistic solution of indiscriminately injecting money into research. more than scientific papers or inventions, we need better innovation, which is a different thing. innovation requires a culture that values entrepreneurship, that values individuals who take risks, that is precisely those who know how to make money from knowledge, and not the other way around. throwing money around to see if knowledge comes up. in education, the key issue is also the creation of a culture of competitiveness and creativity-oriented. and firmly reject the easygoings that impede the future success of both individuals and societies. i therefore welcome the commission's proposals to promote entrepreneurship, targeted research, the school-company link, creativity in the education system and demand and competitiveness. but more than that, i would say that we could symbolize the will to innovate and the lisbon strategy in just three words: what is needed in europe, in business, in universities, is to create value.
i would like to begin by wishing the slovenian presidency the greatest success and to say that i think it is very good that the next european council should focus on economic and development issues. president barroso is to be congratulated for giving priority to these matters from the beginning of his mandate. by reviewing the lisbon strategy, by de-bureaucratising it and giving it a new lease of life, he pointed in the right direction. despite the turbulence of the international financial crisis and the increase in the price of energy, in particular fossil fuels, the evolution of public debt and public deficits, economic growth and job creation have been undeniably positive. we must maintain this orientation and not give in to difficulties. we need more and better lisbon strategy anchored in a pact for growth and jobs that invests in knowledge and innovation, supports sustainable development and includes an environmental agenda and harnesses the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises. economic growth is important not only to ensure a good standard of living for europeans but also to ensure the sustainability of economic and social cohesion policies. because the common commitment to the european project is based on a logic of solidarity. i therefore also call on the presidency of the council to remind the states that solidarity is a condition for the success of our union and that the exaltation of national egos only does harm. in addition to economic issues, there are mobility and safety issues. two months ago we celebrated with joy the anticipated enlargement of the schengen area and the abolition of internal frontiers. that space is now a common space. visa policies, border controls, data and information sharing, police and judicial cooperation are tools of our security and our freedom. we must manage this together and deal with our partners in the world together. i hope that this solidarity will be strengthened in this council and that it will be clear to the czech state, to estonia, to latvia or to anyone else that the negotiation of visa policy with our american partners is a european matter. here too, the unity of europe is a condition for its success and credibility.
in writing. in the statements made at this part-session of the european parliament in preparation for the spring european council, we see the same speeches repeated by the main leaders of the european union. here they have again insisted on the increasingly neoliberal direction of the lisbon strategy - flexibility in labour relations, that is, more attacks on workers' rights, more precarious and low-paid work, while continuing to increase the profits of economic groups and the financial sector. they insist on the liberalization and privatization of structural sectors and public services, indifferent to the consequences of this situation for millions of people on low incomes. they still do not want to change the poverty situation of some 78 million people, 25 million of whom are low-wage workers. the continuing youth unemployment, which is twice as high as total unemployment, includes many young people with higher education who are unable to find employment, and even fewer jobs that take account of their training. they do not want to change policies to prevent their consequences in the european union, particularly in the weaker economies, to avoid worsening the social situation. this is why it is important to insist on replacing the lisbon strategy with a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development.
in writing. − the european commission presented, in its january 2007 energy package, a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy statistics. the european parliament, however, considered that the proposal had a significant number of shortcomings, which it sought to fill with a number of amendments. although we have some reservations about certain amendments, we agree that, as it stands, the statistics produced by the major international organisations such as eurostat are structured on the basis of accounting instruments designed in a period entirely dominated by fossil fuels and which are intended to monitor the operation of the energy sector solely from the point of view of supply. the development over the last thirty years has led to a growing gap between the initial objective of these instruments and their ability to represent energy realities. the risk of distortion in knowledge and assessment of energy realities leading to unfounded decisions thus increases from year to year. the commission proposal is the result of work carried out in 2003, 2004 and early 2005, largely ignoring the documents on energy issues published by the commission in march 2006 (green paper on energy) and january 2007 (energy package).
in writing. - i agree with the european commission's proposal because i believe that detailed, harmonised and updated statistics on trade and use of plant protection products at community level are necessary to properly monitor the risks associated with the use of these products. the proposal to create a legal framework establishing harmonised rules for the collection and dissemination of data on the marketing and use of plant protection products is urgent, as the calculation of risk indicators requires adequate data and, according to experts, existing data on plant protection products lack accessibility, transparency and reliability. although i do not agree with some of the details of the report, such as the inclusion of biocides, i believe that it does not distort the commission's basic ideas, and it also makes some very positive proposals, such as the inclusion of non-agricultural areas in the framework of future legislation and the proper protection of commercial data, which is why i am voting in favour of the staes report.
in writing. - although the report by the committee on agriculture departs from the european commission's proposal, advocating a voluntary 2% increase in member states' milk quotas and ignoring the end of the quota system, the truth is that it also does not take a position against the dismantling of the current quota system or against the liberalisation of the sector after 2015, as the commissioner wants, but which we reject. that is why we abstained. we are afraid that this 2% increase in the member states' quotas, although optional, will allow the large countries and their large producers to increase their production, leading to a decrease in the producer price, creating a situation of dumping, which could serve as a pretext to more easily justify their subsequent dismantling. an increase in the quota should be linked to a community study setting desirable minimum consumption targets by country on the basis of current consumption levels, accompanied by european and national policies to support the increase of production in the deficit countries, promoting a 'regionalized' increase in milk quotas, particularly in the outermost regions and mountain regions, complemented by the creation of a 'premium' to support the organised collection of milk from producers in these regions, guaranteeing them a decent income.
in writing. − in the milk sector, stability and predictability in the long term are crucial for producers and any change to the content of the system which should be in place until 2015 should be given the utmost attention. the amendments now proposed to increase the level of quotas, together with the reduction of fines provided for in the goepel report, mark the beginning of the dismantling of the system well before 2015. despite recent changes in the milk market, both portugal and the eu are producing below their quota, so instead of increasing their quota, we could make adjustments between countries, as 18 out of 27 are below production possibilities. the increase of 2%, voluntary or not, is therefore a first signal to the market that regions with a higher competitive capacity will benefit at the expense of less favoured regions. although the jeggle report improves the commission's proposal, i abstained in order to express my disagreement with what is in practice the beginning of the dismantling of the milk quota system.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. in this context, i would like to emphasize the provision of funds for the maintenance of milk production in regions such as the azores, which is advocated in this report, and i would also like to stress the remarkable commitment and the important contribution of the amendments tabled by mr capoulas santos.
in writing. - this resolution is insufficient in its criticism of the european commission's proposal, although it includes two of the many proposals we have put forward. but its general orientation is negative, particularly when it insists on the unbundling of production aids and urges the commission to ensure that the policy of dissociation is rapidly advanced. experience has shown that the dissociation of direct aid from agricultural production has adverse effects. that is why we are voting against it. but we welcome the rejection of the re-nationalisation of the cap, the call for restructuring measures and the strengthening of key agricultural sectors (such as the dairy sector, the dairy cattle sector and sheep farming) and the approval of our proposals that the european commission should take account, in the world trade organisation negotiations, of the specific features of agricultural production as a food production sector, a structural element of the territorial balances of environmental protection and safeguarding adequate levels of food security. we also welcome the endorsement of our call on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to prevent speculative activities, control of the food market and the formation of cartels by the food industries.
in writing. - except for the milk quota issue, i consider the commission proposal very relevant. the goepel report improves it in many respects, but it makes some amendments with which i cannot agree. firstly, i support the idea of a ceiling on aid as proposed by the commission, since, in view of the increasing pressure of public opinion on aid to farmers and following the implementation of the upr, which has made the system clearer and more transparent, certain imbalances have become apparent and it is therefore necessary to find a fair system to limit the level of aid to large farmers. i also believe that the fact that modulation funds are kept in the regions concerned will not help to resolve the major regional differences in european agriculture. finally, as regards milk quotas, i am against a 2% increase in 2008 and against a reduction in fines, because i believe that such measures will eventually lead to the dismantling of the milk quota system before 2015, with disastrous consequences for the most vulnerable regions dependent on milk production and for all their farmers who have invested in this sector and whose expectations have been betrayed. for all these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. - all policies have the obvious duty to respond to a need and to address it effectively. the current reality of agricultural markets, consumption patterns, environmental needs and future trends require a rethinking of the assumptions, concepts and rules of the common agricultural policy and a reform of the common agricultural policy accordingly. the central axis of this reform must take account of a number of key ideas, such as the importance of the viability of the rural world, the need to avoid the disappearance of european agriculture, farmers' incomes and the need to bring young entrepreneurs and creative models of production and management into this market, and also the interests of consumers, who are all of us, and often no one represents them with vigour. despite the immediate disadvantages that widespread increases in agricultural prices may represent for some sectors of society, both in developed and non-developed economies, there is a set of virtues (therefore greater consumption among the populations of rapidly developing countries) and a potential for advantages that must be taken into account in this reform. this is the approach which i hope will be welcomed, both by the institutions of the european union and by the national authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs christa de klaß on the situation of women in rural areas in the european union, because i believe that rural development policies must take into account the gender dimension, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy on growth, education, employment and social cohesion. i believe that women have a key role to play in promoting local and social growth, and that proposals to improve the living conditions of women in rural areas, such as the creation of education and training infrastructure at all levels; the promotion of equal access to the labour market; the encouragement of female entrepreneurship; and the development of quality social and health services are essential for sustainable rural development.
in writing. - we welcome the adoption of several amendments which improve the final report, including a proposal we tabled stressing the need to give maximum value to the work of women, including immigrant women who are not part of the family unit of the holding but are workers in agricultural fields and are particularly affected by discrimination in the agricultural world. we therefore voted in favour of the report. however, we regret that other proposals we have put forward have not been adopted on the situation of women in rural areas, which is very much influenced by the situation of agriculture, suffering the consequences of unfair measures in the area of the cap - common agricultural policy, which has led to a growing abandonment of small and mediumsized farms and family farming. we therefore continue to insist on the need for a thorough review of the cap, giving priority to the protection of family farming and small and mediumsized farmers, supporting production and guaranteeing their income.
in writing. - the report deals with a number of important issues and makes some points which we support. we agree, in particular, that we should not start with 'dedicated' biomass but rather use waste from various sources, which makes them more energy-efficient and economically viable, and mitigates or solves serious environmental problems. it is also positive that it states that biogas has a far greater energy potential than liquid biofuels, which has been ignored by the european commission. however, we think it is necessary to go into some questions, in particular the difference between the very important concept of biomethane, which is an upgrade of biogas. a clear distinction must be made between biogas and biomethane. biomethane can and should also be produced from etar, landfill and industrial waste, and of course from livestock waste. switzerland and sweden are already producing biomethane and using natural gas networks for its distribution. in the gothenburg area in southern sweden, there are already some 4500 vehicles running on biomethane alone. in the usa there are numerous producers of biomethane and its distribution is in the form of liquefied biomethane. we therefore insist on the need for the european commission to give full attention and priority to funding for biomethane projects throughout europe.
in writing. the tabajdi report emphasises the potential of using agricultural biogas and suggests the development of a directive on biogas production. i am voting in favour of the tabajdi report because i believe that the use of biogas has two benefits, since it can contribute to the security and sustainability of the eu's energy supply, but also allows farmers to develop new sources of income. the contribution of biogas to the pursuit of the recently launched targets for the contribution of renewable energy by 2020 could be of particular relevance.
the rapporteur. - madam president, as parliament votes on a report on the role of the european union in iraq, it is important to draw attention to some lessons learned from the history of that country. on 16 march next it will be 20 years since the chemical weapons attack on the kurdish town of halabja, one of the deadliest operations in the genocidal anfal campaign waged by saddam hussein's forces against his own people. halabja was not an isolated case. there were many halabja throughout iraq. for decades the regime of saddam hussein, with the passivity and sometimes the connivance of european governments, subjected the iraqi people to a strategy of systematic brutalization whose devastating consequences are still being felt today. that is why i, as rapporteur, wanted the fundamental axiom of this report to be europe's moral and legal responsibility towards the iraqi people. no people have suffered more in recent decades and few countries are more strategically important to the security of europe. in addition to its duties, europe must assume that it has an interest in consolidating a federal, democratic iraq, where the rule of law prevails and where human rights are respected, including women's rights. in 2003, my party, the portuguese socialist party, and i personally opposed the decision to invade iraq, supported by my country's then prime minister, mr durão barroso. i'm holding that position. but this report should not serve to reiterate our known positions on an issue which has divided europe in the past. this parliament is called upon to give its opinion on the present and future contribution of the european union to a secure, prosperous, democratic iraq at peace with its neighbours. it was with this in mind that i made two trips to iraq in january and february in preparation for this report. one to baghdad, nasiriyah and the marshlands region and one to kurdistan in the north of the country. with a budget of $48 billion for 2008, what iraq doesn't lack is money. no budget support or soft loans are needed. what iraq needs and what iraqis are asking for is technical assistance and institutional capacity building so that the state and civil society can function and the country's vast resources can be put to the service of the population, including the millions of internally displaced people and refugees in neighboring countries. this report does not simply encourage greater eu involvement in iraq. we also demand that the union's presence in iraq be guided by transparency, visibility and effectiveness, and parliament welcomes the commission's growing concern to improve the use of european funds in iraq in a very difficult context. in this sense we believe that the commission and the member states can and should be more present on the ground, with personnel and projects, especially in those areas of the country where the security situation allows it, as is the case in the kurdish region. we also want to see regulation of the contracting of military and private security companies. i would stress that in this report the european parliament is calling for the first time for clear rules to be established for the use of these companies by the institutions of the european union. the main message of this report, which is important to convey to the commission, the council, european businesses, non-governmental organisations and public opinion, is as follows: europe has a unique opportunity today to make a positive contribution to the destiny of iraq and, by extension, the region. the interaction with the commission throughout the preparation of this report and the consensus with which the report was received in the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament convince me that europe is ready to take up this challenge. i would like to conclude by personally thanking all the colleagues who have offered amendments and suggestions and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, jana hybášková, baroness nicholson of winterbourne, andré brie and cem özdemir, for their contributions which have greatly enriched this report.
let me say, commissioner, that after all the debate we have had on this subject, i think the united nations deserves my utmost respect. we have to be very careful not to let the people who are responsible for the deaths of our citizens be the ones who are responsible for the deaths of our citizens. that does not mean that we should not know what is going on, we should not know to whom the funds that are being used in iraq are going. and let me also say that the 20 million that the commissioner has just spoken of - and i am sorry i read it two or three months ago - seem to me to be largely insufficient to deal with the plight of refugees and displaced persons. it is a drama of colossal proportions, commissioner, of little use to the oil that will be in iraq. these are people who don't have access to that oil. i would thank you, commissioner, for looking at this matter more closely because, as my colleague béatrice patrie has said, it is urgent to look at this problem.
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank you all for your kind words to me and, in particular, to greet my friend, minister lenarčič, with whom i was in the security council a few years ago, dealing with iraq, the problems caused by saddam hussein's iraq. this report, as i have said, seeks to project the diversity of iraqi reality against the simplistic message of an 'iron and fire' iraq that the television sets send us every day. it should be seen as an action plan, a road map for european union involvement in iraq. i think i can speak for parliament when i say that we want the commission, the council and the member states to use the operational proposals we make as a basis for designing future programmes and projects to support the government and the people of iraq, taking account of the security situation, of course. i came back from iraq impressed by the iraqi enthusiasm for 'more europe'. from president talabani to a primary school teacher in one of the country's most remote rural areas, everyone had a thirst for political recognition and institutional support from the european union. we were bombarded with project proposals in a wide variety of areas: training of staff in the ministry of interior, support for local ngos active in the areas of demining, adult literacy and sexual and reproductive health education, technical and institutional support for the iraqi parliament - finally, just to name a few examples. i think we should measure the success of this report not so much by the number of votes in tomorrow's vote, but rather by the difference it will make to our action on the ground in iraq from now on. our parliamentary delegation for iraq will undoubtedly assume its responsibilities in this process, and i am sure that we will count on the commission, on commissioner ferrero-waldner, whom i welcome, and on her courageous team in baghdad, which is being competently led by the usual ambassador as a key ally in the implementation of this road map.
in writing. this report omits responsibility and complicity in the dissemination of false information that served to justify military intervention in iraq, such as the existence and location of 'weapons of mass destruction' and links of the former regime to international terrorism, and also whitewashes responsibility for the introduction into the country of the iranian revolutionary guards and their iraqi affiliates with the consequent spread of terrorist groups and death squads and genocide that have been and continue to be the primary target of ethnic and religious minorities and the country's elites. the report does not make its relations with, or even the european union's financial support for, the iraqi authorities conditional on their commitment to combating terrorism and genocide, and the persecution and trial of those responsible, outside and inside the security forces, while minimizing the tragedy experienced by millions of iraqi refugees and displaced persons and the attacks on the most basic rights, freedoms and guarantees of iraqis, especially women. the invocation of the crimes of the saddam hussein regime would be acceptable if it were sincere and if it were not made by concealing the present crimes and those responsible for them, which have resulted in hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of displaced persons.
on behalf of the pse group. other the resolution on the european union code of conduct on arms exports reflects the frustration of this parliament at the impasse in which this important instrument finds itself, as our rapporteur, mrs gacek, has just said, and i welcome that. ten years after its creation, the code remains a source of pride for those who believe that the european union should take the lead in the global debate on arms transfer controls. we welcome the increasing harmonisation of the application of the code and the detail of the annual reports submitted by the member states, and the outreach initiatives undertaken by the council. but all these advances pale in comparison to the most important issue, the need to make the code a legally binding instrument. we know that the transformation of the code of conduct into a common position of the cfsp has been linked to the lifting of the arms embargo on china. parliament rejects the blackmail which has been at the root of this three-year impasse. no one can ignore the fact that the weapons sold by beijing to the sudanese regime are fuelling the conflict in darfur and are also used, for example, to oppress and repress the burmese people at the hands of the illegitimate military regime. this situation frustrates parliament, because we are tired of the practical and principled reasons which should be enough to put an end to the council's hesitations. a european foreign policy without common and binding arms export rules will always be incomplete and ineffective. moreover, one of the most important obstacles to the full harmonisation of the internal market for defence equipment is precisely the multiplicity of export rules in force in the eu. finally, there is the matter of principle: the european union can only present itself as a responsible and consistent international actor in this area and can only lead the way in improving international law if it is seen as a role model. we are counting, of course, on the slovenian presidency, minister lenarcic, but we are also pointing out right now to the next french presidency, which has special responsibilities in maintaining this impasse, that it is time to unblock the problem and to recognise the importance of putting the european union on the vanguard of effective and responsible multilateralism.
the question period is over (b6-00130/2008). the following questions were put to the council. since they concern the same subject, the following questions will be referred together. question no 1 by mrs marian harkin (h-0077/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the treaty of lisbon can the council state whether there are still questions to be clarified in the current version of the lisbon treaty and whether the concerns expressed by the slovenian presidency regarding the principle, procedure and timetable for the implementation of the treaty have been addressed? if not, can the council indicate what issues are still outstanding? question no 2 by mr gay mitchell (h-0097/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: president of the council has there been any preliminary discussion in the council about who will be the president of the eu council once the lisbon treaty is ratified?
i understand, mr president, but the more time we waste on these questions, the more we are limiting the right of other members to be answered to the questions they have also legitimately asked. this is a council decision and the council has agreed to answer these questions jointly. the honourable member will not be prejudiced, he will of course have the opportunity to speak on his particular question, and i therefore do not think there is any prejudice to the honourable member. so let us get on with our work, otherwise we are wasting more time and it is not possible, it becomes very difficult to achieve, let us say, a minimum of productivity in this period which is so important in our parliamentary work. i would ask the president-in-office to take the floor, please.
question no 3 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0082/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: pact for youth in the framework of the youth pact, the council took decisions to strengthen the employment of young europeans and the possibility of combining work and family life. does the new presidency intend to assess the results achieved so far and continue to promote these objectives?
question no 4 by mr claude moraes, substituted by mrs glenis willmott (h-0084/08) subject: cooperation at eu level on the problem of homelessness the council may be aware of written declaration 0111/2007 recently presented to the european parliament. one of the objectives of the declaration is to develop a european approach to ending the phenomenon of homeless people living on public roads and to this end to collect and share all reliable statistical data that may be needed to facilitate action. what is the council's position on cooperation at european level to tackle the problem of homelessness? more specifically, does the council consider that the exchange of statistics at european level is a positive measure?
question no 5 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0087/08) subject: fight against international crime and the court of justice of the eu can the council report on the progress achieved and the immediate proposals for the establishment of a common asylum policy in the european union?
the following questions will not be answered, because they have not been considered admissible: - the first because it is a question similar to the one that was already put in february; - paragraphs 7 and 8 because they are questions relating to the political situation in chad, a question which we have just discussed before this question time to the council. question no 9 by mr jim higgins (h-0093/08) subject: transport of liquids by rail could the council state its position on the ongoing negotiations between the eu and canada and the us on the transport of liquids at airports? is the council confident of a short-term solution to the outstanding problems?
ladies and gentlemen, we have not much time, we have only six minutes, which the council has informed me will have to be absent from 7.30 p.m., but we will have time to answer the following two questions. since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 10 by mairead mcguinness (h-0095/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: the eu's prospects for the western balkans inevitably, the fate of the western balkans will be of particular interest to the current presidency of the council. in view of the recent developments regarding the status of kosovo, will the presidency of the council take an active role with a view to further integration of the western balkan countries into eu structures? question no 11 by silvia-adriana ţicău (h-0106/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: enhancing relations between the eu and the western balkan countries the slovenian presidency stated that one of its priorities is the development of relations between the eu and the western balkan countries. can the council of the european union indicate the main guidelines it intends to develop for future agreements between the eu and the western balkans? question no 12 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0119/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the role of the european union mission in kosovo in recent statements, the prime minister of kosovo has stated that the proclamation of independence is a matter of days. the russian foreign minister, for his part, linked the eu mission in kosovo to a new un security council resolution on the international community's presence in kosovo. what is the mandate and timetable of the european union mission in kosovo? does the council envisage a new un security council resolution to make any changes to the international community's presence in kosovo?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex).
mr president, commissioner, this report deals with a highly sensitive area of european economic policy, namely taxation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. these taxes are an important source of tax revenue for many member states. on the other hand, the absence of viable alternatives for supplying the commercial freight fleet makes the price of fuels strategic for the competitiveness of many countries. the recognition of the freedom of the member states to fix excise duties is not in question. however, since they directly affect the prices of the goods traded, excessive differences have a direct impact on the proper functioning of the internal market. as has been pointed out here today, there are also transfrontier movements and the environmental impacts caused by these movements. the compromise reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs is a real compromise and i would like to commend the work of all the shadow rapporteurs, but in particular the lead rapporteur, mr schmidt. i am not going to hide the fact that some people would like the minimum threshold to reflect more clearly the environmental concerns that drive us. i personally doubt, however, that at the present level of oil prices there is a need for a fiscal reinforcement of this kind of message. the approach adopted was to approximate the minimum and maximum tax thresholds, which, in some cases, sacrificed these environmental objectives in favour of reducing fiscal distortions of competition. it was a great effort and we hope that it will be recognised by the commission and the council and that it will allow further progress in taxation within the european union.
mr president, i congratulate my colleague ms uca on this excellent report and i welcome the two-track approach, endorsed by the commission in its communication, focusing on both gender mainstreaming and specific actions to empower women. i deplore, however, that many dci country strategy papers merely refer to gender as a cross-cutting issue, failing to specify concrete activities, targets or financial allocations. this means that, despite the strategic framework, gender efforts in development cooperation could be reduced to rhetoric in the years to come. gender-sensitive performance indicators should be assessed in mid-term and final reviews. parliament will monitor the implementation of the cps, and we hope that the commission will be able to indicate progress in terms of specific gender-related outcomes. finally, i am shocked by several medieval conceptions reflected in some amendments to this report put forward by some colleagues on sexual and reproductive health matters. i will vote against them, evidently.
in writing. - in general terms, the aim of this report is to encourage the integration of the 'new' member states into the eu's external policy, in particular its 'development cooperation policy' and its 'european neighbourhood policy'. the report also considers that the 'new' member states represent an opportunity for the eu to 'strengthen its strategic presence in eastern europe, central asia and the caucasus', regions with which the 'new' member states have priority relations and to which eu 'aid' has been less channelled so far. this means trying to use the privileged relationship of the eastern european countries, which joined the eu in 2004, as an instrument of eu intervention (taking into account the interests of its major powers and its major economic and financial groups, in particular in the field of energy) in the countries of the commonwealth of independent states, the western balkans and the caucasus. that is, to try to use the "experience" of "transition" of these countries to capitalism and to integration into nato and the eu - as a figurehead in these regions. this is what it is all about: a policy that masks the interests of capitalism with "development".
in writing. - the very fact that we are discussing the role of the new member states in the european union's cooperation and development policies, particularly with the african, caribbean and pacific countries, speaks volumes about the success of the enlargement and integration process of the acceding countries in recent years. it is true that the so-called former eastern countries had a long tradition of 'cooperation' with africa, and it is possible that, in completely different terms, the links remain; but what is more important is that these countries, which are still facing the costs of their reforms with great energy, are now able to contribute, with the active consent of their populations, to cooperation and development. this is an exemplary path and can be followed - we hope - by other countries in somewhat similar circumstances elsewhere in the world.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research and development programmes are properly coordinated. this programme aims to improve the quality of life of older people through the use of new information and communication technologies (ict). the participation of the european union in this programme will enhance its capacity to address demographic challenges. the use of icts can contribute to greater autonomy for older people and help them to maintain their health and quality of life.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report on the european commission's proposal for the community to participate in the programme that several member states of the european union have decided to establish in the field of research and development of new information technologies (ict) to age well and act effectively. this programme is called 'assistance to self-employment at home' and aims to achieve synergies in terms of management and financial resources. portugal is also taking part. the report, now approved by the european parliament, draws attention to and makes concrete proposals to give greater visibility to the role and participation of women in science and research, stresses the participation of smes and equitable access of all member states to cost-effective solutions in order to avoid the worsening of the digital divide, with the consequent creation of a 'two-speed' europe. it is also proposed that the commission carry out a mid-term evaluation by 2010 to assess the quality and efficiency of the implementation of the programme.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to reduce the differences in diesel prices between the member states, which distort competition and the environment in road transport. in fact, the price differences between road diesel and petrol 95 are significant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. portuguese companies suffer from competition from spanish companies, as they benefit from fuel prices which represent around 30% of the costs lower due to lower psi taxation (and also vat). portuguese companies have justified the stagnation of workers' fixed wages with this cost pressure, with serious consequences for workers. the european parliament's proposal is more positive because it eliminates the transitional periods of article 18, which is very important in the current situation, and it is hoped that it will reduce the gap between portugal and spain in 2010, as spain will have to increase its psi from 302 to 330 in the case of diesel. the convergence continues in 2012 and 2015. in the case of petrol, unfortunately, there will be no change along this line.
in writing. - the purpose of this declaration of vote is to underline that once again an opportunity may be lost at european union level - since the mechanism exists - to intervene in defence of small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing by not applying to petrol at least the same taxation conditions as those enjoyed by diesel users for agriculture and fisheries. it should be recalled that petrol is the fuel used by vessels in this important and major segment of the fleet of the different member states, in particular portugal. in its resolution of 28 september 2006 on improving the economic situation in the fisheries sector, the european parliament, considering that fuel price increases are having a particularly negative impact on the fisheries sector - significantly aggravating the existing socio-economic crisis and reducing fishermen's incomes very significantly - and stressing that there is a serious risk of thousands of fishing enterprises disappearing and thousands of jobs being destroyed, approved a set of proposals to support the sector, in particular to enable it to cope with the increase in fuel prices. a year and a half later, apart from the increase in de minimis aid, virtually nothing has been done at eu level.
in writing. the resolution adopted achieves the 'astonishing' feat of not making a single mention of the brutal and illegal aggression and occupation of iraq by the us and its allies. the resolution whitewashes the whole role of the death of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of iraqis, the destruction of an entire country and the deliberate and massive human rights violations of aggression and occupation. the resolution completely omits the first and foremost cause of the very serious problems facing the iraqi people and their country today and therefore the way to solve them, namely the immediate withdrawal of all occupying troops! the resolution also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. it also called on the neighbouring countries to refrain from any interference in iraq, to respect its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and the wish of the iraqi people to build their constitutional and political system through their own efforts. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - the fact that parliament has decided to debate the future of the european union's role in iraq, rather than insisting on a fruitless debate on past issues, is a positive. the five years that matter to us now are the next five years, not the last five years. the starting point for any debate on this issue today must be to recognise that the situation on the ground has improved greatly - although it is still very serious. what this improvement reveals, first of all, is that there is a viable path towards the goal of building a democratic and secure state. our objective is achievable. but it also follows from the experience of recent years that this objective can only be achieved with greater efforts, whether by increasing safety, investing in the preparation of local authorities or - very importantly - actively contributing to the creation of infrastructure that makes possible the economic viability of the country beyond oil. in the case of the european union, specifically, it is a matter of investing significantly in the economic reconstruction of iraq and in the building of a democracy in the country. a democratic, secure and human rights-respecting iraq is vital for the region and for the world.
in writing. − there is no doubt that an effective eu-wide code of conduct on arms exports is of increased importance in the context of its accelerated militarisation, which is reflected in the proposed treaty, currently in the process of ratification in each member state. the resolution itself, not without some irony, makes it clear that with 'the evolution of the european security and defence policy (esdp), in the framework of which more and more military and civilian missions are being carried out (...) european union personnel may be threatened with weapons previously supplied by member states of the european union'. the eu is increasing its 'military equipment market', encouraging 'several attempts to harmonise national policies on the acquisition of arms and on the intra-community transfer and sale of arms' and 'a willingness to increase arms exports as a means of promoting economic interests'. the slogan is: arms race and militarization of international relations. that is why initiatives and measures aimed at at least making such an escalation possible are positive and necessary. however, as we have said before, the regulation of the arms trade will be all the more relevant if it is accompanied by a process of multilateral and reciprocal disarmament, starting in particular with the dismantling of the huge nuclear arsenals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou on the particular situation of women in prison and the impact of parental detention on social and family life, as there is evidence that european prisons are mainly geared to male inmates, ignoring the specific needs of women. i therefore believe that measures should be taken to improve the situation of women prisoners, particularly in the areas of social and occupational reintegration, health care and hygiene, psychological support and the preservation of family ties.
in writing. − although women make up around 4.5 to 5% of the prison population in the european union, prisons remain fundamentally male-oriented and tend to ignore the specific problems of women who constitute a small, though increasing, percentage of those in prison. the main areas of concern are health care, the situation of mothers with children in prison and vocational and social reintegration. particular attention should be paid to women's health care and hygiene needs, in particular for pregnant women, who require specialised resources and care in terms of nutrition, exercise, clothing, medication and medical care by specialised staff. children who remain with their imprisoned mothers require adequate protection and care and should not suffer any form of discrimination. the imprisonment of women can have particularly serious implications when, before being imprisoned, they were solely responsible for the education of their children. the social integration of women prisoners should be prepared during the period of detention and after release, in cooperation with social services and other relevant organisations, in order to ensure a smooth transition from imprisonment to freedom.
in writing. - we consider this report to have several merits. among them is the call for attention to a burning problem in both eu countries and developing countries, namely the need to ensure access to information in the field of sexual and reproductive health, to ensure their freedom of decision, as well as to create and promote public services for the protection and enforcement of the rights of all and of women in particular. however, we think it is important to stress that the greatest contribution to 'gender equality and women's responsibility in development cooperation' will come not from policies that promote relations of dependency and domination, the liberalisation of markets (see the eu's economic partnership agreements (epas)), the exploitation of workers, social inequalities and injustices and the disregard of human rights, which particularly affect millions and millions of children and women, but from a policy of real cooperation, based on equal rights between states, respect for national sovereignty, the right of each country to define and implement its development model that responds to the needs and aspirations of its people, a policy that truly interprets the word solidarity.
mr president, at the moment in portugal there are more threats from multinationals to relocate parts of their production, as is the case with yasaki saltano and delphi. in each case, these multinational car component manufacturers received millions of euros of community funds to settle in and to train their workers. now, citing problems in the automotive industry, yasaki saltano wants to lay off another 400 workers in vila nova de gaia. about 70% are women, many with health problems, tendonitis acquired in their work for the company. and two questions arise here: where is the social responsibility of these companies? and when will action be taken against these relocations to defend jobs with rights and production in our countries?
this point is closed.
the debate will continue on the oral question to the commission on the fight against cancer in the enlarged european union, tabled by mr miroslav ouzký on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0014/2008 - b6-0015/2008). we have to involve mrs vassiliou in this debate for the first time. i greet you, madam commissioner, i welcome you and i hope that we shall get along very well. the time will come when you will have to speak and then you will begin your work of cooperation and collaboration with the european parliament.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is extremely important to support small and mediumsized enterprises and to stimulate their scientific and technological development. a strong technological base in smes is relevant to enhance their contribution to economic growth and development. smes are typically highly initiative-oriented and adaptable, free from stifling bureaucracies and are usually run by entrepreneurs and managers who are deeply committed to their work of creating wealth. this capacity for initiative and adaptability facilitates the launching of new businesses, involving the manufacture and/or sale of new products or the operation of new services adapted to the needs of consumers of other companies. often these new products and services may require a more solid technological base than is already available in many of these small enterprises, and this eurostars joint research and development programme, designed to support smes, may prove to be very important for the effects it may have on the so-called 'real economy'. this will help to improve the skills of small and mediumsized enterprises in various european countries, serving consumers and the european economy. this will also help to create more and better jobs. the report by our colleague mr rübig was very useful in all this.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. in this brief speech i shall concentrate on the issue of copyright. in the pre-digital world of books and records, the purchase of the work defined the normal consumer attitude. copiers and tape recorders came to shake the pay of authors, but buying remained the rule. the paradigm shift comes with the digital universe. on the net, the free sharing and circulation of ideas, information and works is freed from its old physical shackles. in this world, payment is a thing of the past. the free movement of works is the natural habitat of culture. we are fighting piracy for profit, but we are completely against the criminalisation of the consumer. some of the constraints and blockages in the digital universe are still necessary because we haven't figured out how to properly remunerate authors in any other way, but their days are numbered.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having proposed a general framework for the cultural issues in the lisbon agenda, i have decided to welcome in my report the various proposals put forward by my colleagues, provided they do not conflict with this perspective. and so, if in some aspects of this report i have points which may be considered redundant in relation to other instruments, however adopted and already in force, they are worth as an insistence on topics deemed of the greatest relevance. the european union has a special duty to safeguard europe's cultural wealth. the european cultural heritage must be preserved, disseminated and shared within and outside the union in all its dimensions and by all means, without prejudice to the wider and more desirable openness to all other cultures, which has always been a hallmark of europe. our cultural heritage, forged in the diversity of its expressions and in the combination of its main matrices, such as greek-latin and judeo-christian antiquity, has historically placed europe at the forefront of all continents. it has proved to be a unique factor of innovation, development and progress that has spread in all directions and remains, even today, a fundamental reference of humanism, of enrichment and spiritual vitalization, of democracy, of tolerance and citizenship. in an increasingly globalised world, this cultural wealth has a core configuration whose specific and distinctive characteristics constitute a true european asset and whose identity role is essential for europe and the union, for its understanding of the world, for ensuring its cohesion, for making its mark and for asserting itself vis-à-vis other peoples. the particular expressions of the historical projection of europe's cultural heritage on other continents must give rise to special actions which highlight the factors which have built civilization, mutual understanding and the constructive approach of the peoples represented by these expressions. we recommend that the council and the commission should value the classical european heritage and the historical contributions of national cultures, over all centuries and in all dimensions, but also take into account the needs of the cultural sector in the future. we therefore suggest that 2011 be designated as the european year of the greek and latin classics, in order to draw the attention of the peoples of the union and the rest of the world to this essential aspect of cultural heritage, which is now threatened by oblivion. for the same reason, we insist that the promotion of european languages in the world and their role in the cultural creation of other continents be given greater importance, in order to facilitate mutual knowledge and understanding and the cultural interaction generated and conveyed by these languages in their non-european aspects. the community programmes currently available in the cultural sector do not, however, allow for a full coverage of the situation relating to the common cultural heritage of europeans. hence the need for specific programmes which stimulate creativity and enable wider and deeper contact with the tangible and intangible goods and values which make up the european cultural heritage, so as to facilitate their interaction in the humanistic understanding of identities and differences and in contemporary cultural production. all programmes in the cultural sector have very positive aspects for cohesion, real convergence, economic growth, sustainable development, innovation, employment and competitiveness, but this should not make us forget that culture and cultural products have a value in themselves. we remind the council of the urgent and pressing need to review the budgetary appropriations to support the actions envisaged in this commission communication and the existing actions. with all this, and the more that cannot be mentioned, i conclude by welcoming the commission's communication and the approval it has received from the council and expressing our agreement with the objectives set out in it.
the rapporteur. - madam president, after so many very cordial speeches, i regret that i have to refer by telegraph to only a few points which i consider essential, but i believe that all of them and much of what is contained in the report which has not been mentioned here contribute to enriching this debate in an extraordinary way. the first point i would like to make is that the introduction of culture in the commission's communication is a political innovation. it was emphasized by mrs trüpel and it is a question of ensuring the presence of culture in other european policies. i think this is fundamental. the second point raised by mr mikko concerns the cultural dimension which must be integrated into european foreign policy, not only of the european union but also of the member states - it is absolutely essential. the third point, raised by mr hieronymi, concerns the well-balanced balance between the economic and the economic value of culture and culture as a value in itself. just two more points. mrs staniszewska spoke of the importance of cultural action at regional and local level, which is also emphasized in the report, but i think it should be emphasized here. you have my full agreement on that. finally, i should also stress that providing access to culture for families and students, from the school and society, and building bridges between cultural heritage and the exact sciences, innovation and technology are fundamental aspects of these concerns. madam president, since i cannot go into more detail than i have just said, i would just like to conclude by saying that culture is an indispensable and inescapable system of values and collective and individual experiences, and that it is with these values and collective and individual experiences that europe must look to the future.
on behalf of the pse group. other i would like to congratulate mrs attwooll on the remarkable effort she has made to make her report as consensual as possible. this is a complex and controversial issue, but one of the utmost importance for all those concerned with the sustainability of resources, but including in this concept the sustainability of the most precious resource of all, the people who make up europe's many fishing communities. the report's balanced approach, which takes account of different perspectives, therefore seems to me to be perfectly appropriate. the result of the vote in the committee on fisheries - 21 votes in favour out of a total of 24 - is a good indication of what i have just said. but as important as not running away from this debate would be making hasty decisions. as an elected member of parliament in a member state where small-scale and multi-species fisheries predominate in southern europe, i am concerned about the introduction of management systems involving the trading of rights, which may result in benefits for the shipowners with more purchasing power to the detriment of the smaller ones. i also fear that the widespread adoption of such a system could have counterproductive effects, and could even lead to higher catches to offset the cost of acquiring the right to fish. i therefore reiterate my support for the overall conclusion of the report, which is that no decision should be taken without studies covering all the member states and the different types of fisheries, without a wider debate taking place to allow all the variables of this question to be weighed.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would like to begin by acknowledging the efforts of the rapporteur, mrs attwooll, in producing a balanced report on such a fundamental issue as the sovereignty of the member states in the management of their fisheries resources and the creation of private property rights for access to exploitation of this public good. however, although we value paragraph 11 of the report, it contains a number of considerations with which we disagree, such as the fact that this debate is seen as a preliminary step towards the necessary change in the current management policy or that it includes points which more or less explicitly call for the adoption of management mechanisms based on fishing rights at community level. we believe that it is up to each member state to manage its marine resources, in particular as a means of guaranteeing its food sovereignty, and we therefore reject any phased process which would lead to the future creation of a community management system based on fishing rights, i.e. on the marketing of licences, fishing days or quotas, which would necessarily lead to the private appropriation and concentration of the exploitation of a public good.
i too join my colleagues in congratulating our rapporteur, elspeth attwooll, and i would like to say that in my view the marine natural heritage must be preserved and must be used sustainably by the fishing communities that traditionally interact with it and cannot be seen as a business like any other. in this sense, i do not share the view that sees marine ecosystems and the fishing communities that interact with them as a market, where fishing rights for fish stocks can be freely traded, possibly even on the stock exchange, naturally leading to the industrialisation of the activity and putting at risk the balance of both ecosystems and fishing communities. moreover, it seems to me that the principle of relative stability cannot be called into question in any way and for this reason i think the commission should exercise the utmost caution in this debate.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs graça moura, on the report that was adopted today and i would like to congratulate her and, above all, draw attention to paragraph 26, which was overwhelmingly approved by 560 votes in favour in the roll-call vote, and which draws attention to the fact that some european languages interact with other continents, with countries all over the world, and that it is important for the european union to know how to specifically promote these languages and the cultural interaction that is generated and conveyed by these languages also with non-european spaces. this is the case for english, spanish and also portuguese and, to a lesser extent, french. i am sure that commissioner orban will be able to draw the consequences of this paragraph, together with the bernat joan i marí report which we voted on two years ago, when defining the guidelines for a european policy on multilingualism. specific support for the dissemination of these languages, which are world european languages, is of unquestionable importance in the globalised world in which we live.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report on the health policy conditions for the non-commercial movement of pet animals, taking into account health problems and their possible implications for public health. for example, regulation (ec) no 998/2003 of the european parliament and of the council harmonises the rules on the non-commercial movement of pet animals between member states or after their introduction into and re-introduction into the community from third countries. the regulation introduced, inter alia, the passport for cats, dogs and ferrets, when they are moved from one member state to another, which proves that the animal has been subjected to rabies vaccination. however, the regulation provides for temporary derogations which certain member states may apply until 3 july 2008 (articles 6 (1) and 16). article 6 (3) provides for the possibility of extending the transitional period by legislation, on the basis of a report to be submitted to the european parliament and the council by the commission before 1 february 2007, which has not happened. so now there is an agreement to extend the transitional period to allow time for the definition of the new regime to be applied.
in writing. - since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, we have seen a steady development of common european policies on migration and asylum. in this context, it is essential that we can rely on comparable, reliable and objective information and data at national and european level to enable us to better understand migration phenomena, analyse the phenomenon and develop policies or take better informed decisions. however, existing data are scattered and in many cases are not reliable, comparable or even up to date. the thessaloniki european council approved the creation of a european migration network, which began as a pilot project and then as a preparatory action. i therefore support this proposal which seeks to consolidate the existing structure, making it permanent and giving it an appropriate legal basis by defining its objectives, functions, structure and financing arrangements. i agree with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, in particular the inclusion of asylum in the name of the network and the extension of its mandate. but above all because the council's proposal to give the ep only an observer role, without voting rights, is unacceptable.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today a proposal for a council decision aimed at creating a 'european migration network'. the 'european migration network', which started as a pilot project in 2002, is based on a set of 'contact points' at national level and has as its main objective to provide 'objective, reliable and comparable information' on the immigration and asylum situation in the different member states. the present proposal aims at consolidating the existing structure in the form of a network without creating, at least for the time being, a new agency or a new observatory at eu level. while measures to improve knowledge of the reality of migration (and asylum) in the different eu countries will undoubtedly be positive, we consider it negative that such a measure serves to promote or is part of the 'communitisation' of immigration and asylum policies, which the treaty, now called 'lisbon', aims to promote and ensure. we reject the creation of common immigration and asylum policies at eu level which are security-oriented, restrictive and deeply inhumane, and which take away from the sovereignty of states (and their national parliaments) these essential competences.
in writing. − the bodies referred to in article 185 of council regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002 - the community agencies - have multiplied in recent years (with the creation of more anticipated) and are increasingly assuming a supranational character, performing functions which fall within the competence of each member state. the report makes some improvements to the text proposed by the european commission, including the inclusion in the financial regulation of these bodies of the obligation to make available on each of their internet pages information on the beneficiaries of funds from their budgets, and that this information should be 'easily accessible to third parties, clear and exhaustive'. something that the regulation still in force does not provide for. however, while also requesting more detailed information on the staff, budget and work of the agencies, it accepts the commission's proposal to give these agencies more room for manoeuvre in terms of budgetary transfers, which should be followed up.
in writing. - part of the economic difficulties faced by the fisheries sector are the result of a management system that is not very transparent and not very effective, based, among other things, on the tac and quota system and the management of fishing effort. the commission communication - improving the economic situation of the fisheries sector, addresses the difficulties facing the sector and points to some new approaches to fisheries management. these include management based on 'fishing rights'. this debate is of the utmost importance for the community fisheries sector, as it opens the door to greater biological sustainability for resources and greater market intervention capacity for those responsible for the sector. there is a great diversity of trading systems and fishing rights, not always fully transparent. a serious debate is therefore needed to find ways of managing these rights in a way that ensures transparency, legal certainty and economic efficiency for fishermen. since 'fishing rights' are the backbone of fisheries management in countries with the highest fishing potential (usa, new zealand, norway, etc.), it is appropriate to discuss this possibility in the management of community fisheries. for all these reasons, the psd members supported the attwooll report.
in writing. - commissioner borg's speech was illuminating on the commission's intentions for the future of the common fisheries policy: the modification of its management system by phasing in a community system based on fishing rights. we could almost anticipate their intentions: to extend the application of such a system, at first, to even a part of the fleets in the largest number of member states, and then to create a single market for fishing rights at eu level, possibly through their trading on the stock exchange. the objectives are taken up by the european commission itself: '[...] trigger the large-scale purchase of rights, which will result in concentration in terms of ownership of quotas, geographical distribution of fishing activities and fleet composition. ' and '[...] any mechanism designed to limit the negative effects [...] should be compatible with the single market and community competition rules'. this is a matter of the utmost importance, which goes to the heart of the sovereignty of states and the management and ownership of the exploitation of a natural resource, that is, the assignment to private interests of access rights to the exploitation of a public good. an intention that can only have our most frontal rejection!
in writing. − following the dismissal of 1,549 workers in 2007 at opel portugal in azambuja, alcoa fujikura in the seychelles and johnson controls in portalegre, the portuguese government submitted an application to mobilise this fund (eur 2 425 675) to co-finance actions such as 'vocational training and certification' and wage compensation to 'incentivise' workers to accept lower wages. there is no doubt that in view of the serious consequences for workers, their families and regions of the closure of these units, any measure aimed at reducing them is urgent and necessary, but the lack of resolution of the underlying problem remains: the creation and guarantee of jobs with rights for workers and the ensuring of the socio-economic development of these regions. this is only possible with a genuine investment policy, which takes advantage of the potential of each region and prevents multinationals, after receiving large millions of euros in 'aid', from relocating or closing down in search of greater exploitation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions, including the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. − in 2006, i campaigned hard for the creation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. when it was adopted, i made a speech in the plenary where i said that this decision had a political interpretation: for the first time, the three european institutions, the council, the commission and the parliament, recognised the negative aspects of the globalisation process and that workers who were victims of factory closures due to globalisation should be financially supported. i understood that it was a way for the european union to show its presence on the ground to those suffering redundancies as a result of the closure of companies, as happened in portugal, opel, johnson and alcoa fujikara. these are often dramatic situations and the european parliament's decision to make some €2.5 million available to these workers can help to alleviate the distress they are experiencing. when people are restless and fearful, it's hard to accept change. the funds decided today and allocated to these portuguese workers are not a miracle solution, but they are certainly a way of helping these workers to have more confidence in themselves so that, with the support of the european union, they can find reasons to smile again.
in writing. − this report marks the beginning of the debate on the 2009 budgetary procedure as regards the budget of the european parliament and other institutions, not including the european commission, by far the most significant budget. among other points which we could highlight, the guidelines now proposed concerning staff policy should be considered. this is because in recent years there has been a constant pressure to reduce staff costs by opting for precarious forms of recruitment, such as recruitment through the provision of external services, in particular through temporary employment agencies, to the detriment of permanent employment contracts and the rights of these workers. this, of course, deserves our firm rejection. another recurring theme is the need to ensure the diversity and availability of all the eu's official and working languages. during the 2008 budgetary procedure, a small amount was allocated to 'encourage the administration to give priority to providing more effective linguistic support to members during official meetings', but it is not known what measures have actually been taken in this regard, especially in view of the fact that situations where this right is not respected continue to occur, see the eu-acp parliamentary assemblies.
in writing. − theoretically, this is a relevant project, as it aims to strengthen support for smes carrying out research and development, since it is above all at the level of enterprises, particularly smaller ones, that r & d investments have their greatest multiplier effect, while it is there that the greatest shortcomings are found. however, we do not believe that the programme can achieve this objective with any real effect, since: - the project has been allocated absolutely ridiculous and even ridiculous sums of money - €400 million, of which only €100 million originates in the eu, which means, on the one hand, the propagandistic nature of the proposal, while concealing, on the other hand, its future use by a very small number of companies; - i know . the proposal favours only the most powerful and qualified mediumsized enterprises, i.e. those with more than 250 employees, while leaving out more than 80% of the european business community, which is mainly made up of micro and small enterprises. however, as portugal is one of the european countries where the lack of investment in r & d in enterprises is dramatic, we believe that if the eurostars programme were to reach our country, its effects would be completely irrelevant and residual.
in writing. - i support the content of this report because i consider that the proposals in it are intended to promote research and development in smes, which represent more than 99% of all enterprises in europe and employ more than 60% of the working population. in addition, the number of smes carrying out research and development activities is very small and we must therefore encourage, by all means at our disposal, the encouragement of such initiatives, which will be increasingly decisive in consolidating their competitiveness. the most decisive factor in this respect goes beyond the content of this report. it is therefore important to create multiplier effects which, through modern forms of business management, can lead to processes which, through innovation and efficiency, create value. this value creation should benefit not only the companies where it is developed, but also the whole business fabric, upstream and downstream. the adoption of this report should not make us forget the need to strengthen financial support mechanisms for start-ups, an area where many difficulties are still detected, especially for young people who want to start an entrepreneurial experience. i insist on the reduction of red tape in these processes so as not to discourage smes from committing themselves to research and development.
in writing. - according to information provided by the commission, 40% of the total eu fleet, in terms of tonnage, operates on the high seas or in third country waters. similarly, vessels from other countries also fish in community waters, in particular under the terms of the so-called 'nordic agreements'. it is therefore important that the eu has a clear system for authorising these two types of activities. the legislative proposal and the ep report represent the eu's efforts to 'simplify' the common fisheries policy (cfp) by establishing general rules and conditions for applying for and issuing fishing authorisations, both inside and outside community waters. the commission proposal clarifies the responsibilities of the commission and the member states and specifies the obligations to notify fishing activities. the amendments made by the ep report make the document fairer in some respects. this is exemplified by the increasingly flexible approach to the eligibility criteria of article 7. the psd meps therefore support the morillon report.
in writing. - at present, fishing authorisations to be granted to community vessels or to third country vessels are managed through the various bilateral agreements or with regional fisheries organisations. the proposal for a regulation aims to create a single procedure for the management of all fishing authorisations, highlighting the role of the european commission in granting or suspending these authorisations as opposed to that of the member states. among many important points which merit comment or criticism, we would point out that although this report clarifies certain aspects of the proposed regulation, such as the fact that it considers only serious infringements to be infringements which have actually been confirmed as such under national legislation - which we consider to be positive - it still does not safeguard the sovereignty of each member state as regards the management of fishing activities in its eez, which we disagree with. we therefore tabled an amendment which argued that 'the member states, as interested parties, are active participants in the procedures, including decision-making procedures' relating to the allocation of licences in this context. unfortunately, the amendment was rejected by the majority of this parliament.
in writing. - expressing our sorrow for the victims, our desire for a peaceful resolution of the conflict and our principles of defending democracy, human rights and international law, we consider that, once again, a resolution on the situation in tibet contains considerations which do not correspond exactly to the actual development of the facts. what is at stake, and this is becoming increasingly clear, is an operation against the beijing olympic games, the real source behind the escalation of provocation and many of the hypocritical indignations expressed. once again, arguments are being manipulated to justify current and future lines of interference and of defying international law, seeking to impose strategic and economic interests against china. it is significant that tibet is still referred to as occupied territory by china when the powers that are instigating and supporting separatist movements which are at the root of the violent actions do not even question the territorial integrity of the people's republic of china, including tibet as an autonomous region. finally, what moral authority does this house have to pass such a resolution when less than a month ago it passed a report on iraq without a single mention of the us aggression and occupation?
in writing. - it will be said that the effects of the nato summit recently held in bucharest were felt in the vote of the european parliament's plenary session held today. in other words, croatia sees its report on its 'progress' towards eu membership approved - even though it is explicitly stated that the negotiations (!) must be completed before the 2009 elections - while the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) sees the vote on this same opinion postponed. it is worth recalling that the nato summit decided to admit croatia, while the accession of fyrom was postponed. if there is one aspect of this situation which is once again evident, it is that the enlargement of the eu and nato is being done in harmony. among other important aspects to be highlighted in this declaration of vote (such as the current border disputes between the countries of the region, including italy), it is emphasized that the 'progress towards eu accession' means, according to the european commission, that the 'economic criteria', i.e. 'a policy of fiscal consolidation and stability', 'structural reform of public finances', 'privatization' and 'improvement of the business environment', agrarian reform (i.e. access to land ownership, particularly by foreigners) are being fulfilled. two examples of the eu at its best...
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution in view of the current situation and the estimates of the international centre for cancer research, which state that one in three europeans will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime and one in four will die of the disease. in 2006, there were around 2.3 million new cancer cases and over one million cancer deaths in the european union. cancer is caused by many factors in multiple stages, requiring more prevention that addresses both lifestyle-related causes and causes related to occupational activity and the environment. according to a recent study by trade union organizations, at least 8% of the annual number of cancer deaths are directly caused by exposure to carcinogens in the workplace and this exposure could be avoided by replacing these agents with less harmful substances. it is known that there are shocking differences in the quality of cancer treatment facilities, screening programmes, science-based good practice, radiotherapy services and access to new cancer medicines, which also explains the large discrepancies in the five-year survival rate for most cancers in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the riitta myller report on the mid-term evaluation of the sixth community environment action programme, given the importance of ensuring that the objectives set out therein are met, particularly as regards the thematic strategies, the protection of biodiversity and the application of community legislation, not forgetting issues such as environmental taxation or the problem of subsidies for activities harmful to the environment. more efforts are needed to respond in a timely manner to the environmental problems addressed by the targets set out in the programme.
in writing. − this report is the result of an evaluation commissioned by the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety to find out to what extent the european union has so far honoured its commitments under the sixth community environment action programme, which was adopted in 2002 and runs until 2012. this evaluation revealed that the implementation of the action programme is very or extremely late in respect of several priority objectives. it concluded that, in the light of the measures taken so far, it did not appear that the programme's priority environmental objectives would be achieved by 2012. the evaluation therefore does not support the european commission's assertion in its own mid-term evaluation that, overall, the eu is up to date with the implementation of the measures set out in the action programme. the evaluation commissioned by parliament will show that the commission's decision to present specific proposals through the thematic strategies has not, in general, produced the expected result. however, although we have voted in favour of the report in general, we disagree with some of its content.
in writing. - we know the importance of cultures and their dissemination in respecting cultural diversity, the rights of artists and the peoples of each of the member states of the european union. the report contains some positive proposals which we welcome, such as the idea of enhancing the mobility of people, products and services in the creative sector, in accordance with the rules and principles of the unesco convention on cultural diversity, and the challenge it makes to the commission to consider the possibility of creating a programme similar to the media programme. it also called on the commission to complete the work on the european digital library initiative, to stimulate and support the music, theatre and publishing sectors in order to facilitate the transnational distribution of works, and, as a preliminary measure, to establish a mechanism under the culture programme to enable the non-audiovisual cultural industries to have access to community funding for the promotion of books, music and vocational training. but we do not follow other proposals which are aimed more at defending purely business interests than at education, culture, the rights of artists and the general public.
in writing. - i welcome the excellent report by my colleague vasco graça moura on a european agenda for culture in a globalised world, which proposes a broad programme for developing a strategy both within the eu and in its relations with third countries. since at least march 2005, graça moura has been stressing that the lisbon strategy will never be able to fully achieve its fundamental objectives if it does not consider culture as one of its essential dimensions. the commission's communication is in line with this and makes culture an important item on the european political agenda. i agree with the rapporteur when he says that 'it is this globalised world which makes it ever more urgent that we affirm and strengthen european identity, without prejudice to the diversity of the cultures of the peoples of europe'. i therefore congratulate the european commission on this communication and call for the creation of the task force on culture, which was announced by president barroso but which is slow to be set up and start its work.
in writing. - there are very contradictory aspects to this report. on the one hand, there is a continuing attempt to hide the reality of europe's evolution. there is no single 'cultural heritage of europe', let alone a reference to 'humanism, tolerance, democracy', etc. the whole of european cultural history, like its history in general, is not only built up of diversity and admirable creative energy and progress, but also of violent antagonistic confrontation, of intolerance, of multiple lines and contexts of cultural domination. the single heritage is a fiction, fed earlier by cultural eurocentrism (europe as the 'vanguard' and other aspects referred to), fed today by the myth, repeated, of a 'european' cultural identity. on the other hand, however, the political intention to assert itself autonomously contains positive elements. this is of course because such an autonomous affirmation is not possible only in the context of any 'european' cultural identity, but in the context of preserving guarantees of resistance to the compressing role of the us-dominated cultural industries (defence of linguistic and cultural diversity; consideration of cultural industries as a 'protected area in relation to trade rules'; recognition that the 'eu trade balance is unfavourable in cultural goods and services'). hence the abstention vote at the end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission green paper entitled 'adaptation to climate change in europe - possible action by the european union', because i share the conviction that adaptation measures are a guarantee against the negative and unavoidable effects of climate change. the early design of adaptation strategies for agriculture, water management, land use planning or public health is part of the desirable attitude in the formulation of environmental policies at community level.
in writing. − it is known that the working group ii contribution to the fourth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change predicts that almost all european regions will be negatively affected by some of the future consequences of climate change. this could be a new threat to europe's biodiversity and could undermine social development, requiring a truly transversal approach and involving the inclusion of social, economic and environmental aspects in their broadest sense. the resolution points to causes and measures which are sometimes contradictory. it is good to recognise that there are numerous studies and models at regional or local level on the likely impacts of climate change, but many of these studies lack a parallel perspective on the socio-economic dimension and the foreseeable consequences for the affected populations. it is good that the commission is invited to coordinate and support the scientific preparation of a common european database on vulnerabilities, in order to try to understand how cultural and national groups and heritages may be affected and may react to the consequences of climate change in the future. but we disagree on others, like keeping the emissions business going.
mr president, pedro jorge, a worker and trade union leader of the portuguese company cerâmica torriense, has been the subject of disciplinary proceedings by the employer for his dismissal following his participation in a portuguese radio and television programme in which he only told the truth. in this tv programme, this worker gave as an example of the situation that is experienced in many companies his own example, that is, the fact that he has not been increased since 2003. we are in solidarity with the workers and trade unionists who are being repressed, and we consider that this unacceptable attitude of the company, which is seeking to intimidate a worker and trade unionist by means of a persecutory attitude which violates democracy and freedom, deserves to be condemned in the strongest possible terms.
mr president, among the important aspects of the 2009 budget, we should stress that it envisages a first review of the community budget, the real outlines of which are not yet fully defined, although some of the objectives already set are worrisome. on the other hand, once again, in the light of the guidelines put forward by the commission and the council, if the situation that has already occurred in 2007 and 2008 is to be expected, that is, the limits set out in the multiannual financial framework, which are already insufficient to meet the needs of real cohesion in the european union, will not be met again. there are also serious signs that the 'spending' objective in cohesion is not being achieved. at the same time, there is an insistence on increasing the funds for the so-called external action of the eu, that is, for the strengthening of its action in the fields of intervention and theatres of war, which we reject. in short, insufficient funding for priorities which we consider appropriate, financial reinforcement for priorities which we reject.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 april 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the commission statement on the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by totalitarian regimes.
mr president, mr barrot, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a second decision which lays down the rules necessary for the implementation of another initiative which has already received the political agreement of the council but has not yet been adopted. i see that initiatives against terrorism and crossborder crime have been taken in succession with a view to strengthening security and surveillance, but i regret that initiatives aimed at greater protection of fundamental rights have not had the same luck. there has continued to be a uniform set of procedural safeguards at union level and there has continued to be an appropriate legal instrument with regard to data protection under the third pillar, as vice-president barrot has just acknowledged in his speech. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to help us explain to the council that this is an unacceptable situation, especially when we take into account that the vast majority of counter-terrorism and police cooperation measures have been taken on the basis of the collection and exchange of personal data. this initiative is another example of that, and it's all the more serious if you think about it, because we're talking about the collection, storage and sharing of dna data, fingerprints and so on. the data protection rules which are laid down in chapter vi of the prüm initiative and which provide for more specific safeguards are not in themselves autonomous and, in order to function properly, require a complete and general framework, which can only be effectively ensured through the third pillar framework decision on data protection. we have very much welcomed the initiative to bring key aspects of prüm cooperation into the union framework. however, we cannot leave the work half-done. it is also essential to ensure that there is a clear, effective and general legal framework for data protection.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the debate on amendments to the statute of the ombudsman in the committee on constitutional affairs was not easy. it was a long debate, with a lot of controversy, and the question that was essentially asked was whether the extension of the ombudsman's powers increased the rationality of those powers. we started from a clear assumption that the role of each institution in a democratic culture must be well defined and that confusion of roles must always be avoided. clearly defined roles and a rational distribution of roles are the only way to respect the legitimacy, effectiveness and accountability of the institutions. that is why the proposal to grant the ombudsman access to the court of justice has been withdrawn. however, a commitment has been made to secrecy and data protection. it also deals with cooperation with other institutions in the field of fundamental rights. access to the secret is now open, but the ombudsman cannot reveal the secret to third parties. data protection is governed by the data protection rules in force in the european union. on the subject of fundamental rights, it is clear that the ombudsman can collaborate with other institutions in this area, as i think he should. collaboration with the institutions on fundamental rights is the expression of an unwritten principle, since fundamental rights are the foundation and the aim of the european union. but the compromise reached in a debate which is not easy makes clear what i think must be the irrefutable conclusion in this matter: the ombudsman, in his institutional life, should always be clear that when exercising his powers, he must do so in accordance with the principles of necessity, appropriateness and proportionality. because that's the criteria of justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in this debate because the situation of the new flame, which sank off algeciras and gibraltar in august 2007, remains unresolved. the vessel is known to have suffered several fuel and oil spills between august 2007 and february 2008. we all know that the consequences of these accidents are not confined to the borders of the member states, and that they have a detrimental effect on the environment and on the people living along the river. so i join my spanish colleagues to get answers to the questions raised about new flame. these are pertinent questions and they require an urgent response, because this accident does not concern only the spanish authorities or gibraltar, but is the kind of accident whose consequences in terms of the environment, maritime safety and the marine economy affect us all. we cannot ignore that the collision and sinking of this ship occurred in one of the busiest straits in the world and that its cargo remains unremoved. the diplomatic quarrel is therefore the one that matters least. the questions raised are all the more relevant since this parliament has been adopting legislation on maritime safety through extensive packages of measures which aim to make european legislation more demanding and harmonized with the important international instruments in force. it is therefore reasonable to ask how the relevant means, approved by european legislation, at least those already available, are being used and how the necessary cooperation between the member states concerned and the commission is being coordinated, particularly in terms of the exchange of information, the determination of responsibilities and the concrete measures to deal with this situation. it is in this context that we are looking at the communication which mr barrot has brought to us and which, i believe, conveys the commission's position.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of budgetary management, i would like to start by expressing, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, our concern that the unpaid budgetary commitments are continuing to increase, which, together with the change from the n+2 to n+3 rule in some member states for the period 2007-2013, could worsen the situation and will tend to result in more delays in the arrival of the amounts to the final recipient. we are talking about policies which directly affect the citizens, such as the european social fund, and delays can have disastrous effects in terms of the efficiency and success of the use of the amounts themselves. on structural measures, we agree with the court of auditors that the control systems need to be improved in order to prevent errors in projects implemented under the structural funds. more oversight, more effective audits and effective follow-up of projects from inception to completion are needed to close any gaps or errors in a timely manner. to this end, the european commission must be provided with the logistical capacity and the appropriate means for the effective applicability of feedback mechanisms and a real follow-up of audit processes. it is, however, essential to use useful, comparable and aggregate indicators and targets as soon as possible in order to analyse the development of structural policies in such a way as to avoid inevitably generalising and approximating analyses which are, for that very reason, very inconclusive in terms of the effectiveness of the implementation of these funds. i think it is important to mention the commission's recommendation to the member states to make use of the simplifications provided for in the new structural funds regulations, in particular by using amounts declared on a flat-rate basis for indirect costs under the european social fund. i would also like to congratulate the european commission on the investment made in the eures network and to highlight the virtualities of the european year of workers' mobility. they have, of course, come to highlight the problems we all recognise and still face in terms of mobility. as regards the european agencies under consideration by the committee on employment and social affairs, i would just like to thank them briefly for the work they have done and, as we have all seen, we can generally give a very positive assessment of their activities. i would, however, like to end by drawing attention to the need to provide for an increase in the budget for the dublin agency which is now in charge of the analysis of the anticipation of labour and business changes, with a view to supporting the socioeconomic project on the evaluation of applications under the european globalisation adjustment fund. we all know how important this can be. this is therefore an area of the greatest sensitivity and importance and should receive special attention from the european union, particularly through this analysis carried out by the dublin agency, which could in some way help to anticipate the potential crises that we all see on the horizon in any of the 27 member states.
on behalf of the pse group. i would also like to thank all the rapporteurs and all the socialist colleagues, as well as those from other groups, who have taken part in this discharge procedure and who have done so much to ensure that it comes to a successful conclusion. and i would like to say exactly what i think about this question from the european parliament, i would like to say that it seems to me unequivocal that the fundamental conclusion we can draw from the internal audit report is that there are serious shortcomings in the functioning of the system of payments for parliamentary assistance, which goes beyond the introduction of a statute for parliamentary assistants and the handing over of the financial management of their payments to the administration of the european parliament. it is essential that in the next parliamentary term meps not only rely on the statute but also that their staff have their work regulated and financed within the european institutional framework, thereby not justifying the survival of public funding of a voluntary pension system and making clearer the rules on travel and other general expenses. it is essential that the council votes in favour of this and does not make the european parliament a mere hostage to small conveniences, just as it is essential that members be guaranteed the best possible working conditions, but taking into account the need to be governed by rules of total transparency, rigor and full scope of the general rules applicable in society. i would like to appeal in particular to our colleagues in the epp not to interfere with this reform process. it is absolutely crucial that we have a consensus in this parliament that there is a statute for assistants and that statute is clear and that it regulates matters that have contributed unnecessarily to the discrediting of our institution. it is essential that we arrive safely and that we have the support of all.
in writing. the report is part of the process of transposing the prüm treaty into the community acquis. this treaty is an integral part of the serious security measures which have been implemented under the cover of the so-called 'fight against terrorism' aimed at deepening crossborder cooperation at eu level in the field of 'fighting against terrorism', crossborder crime and immigration. although it contains some amendments which improve on the original proposal, the report does not prevent or denounce the creation of a worrying framework for police cooperation (including the 'establishment of joint rapid intervention teams' allowing police services from one member state to operate on the territory of another), the creation of the 'personal data bank' (including information on dna, or, if 'necessary', on the political opinions of citizens) and the facilitation of access to it by intelligence services, which constitute real violations of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens in the different member states. the dangers of such a process are even highlighted by the european data protection supervisor himself, who points out that such instruments are being (long since implemented) without adequate safeguards for the protection of citizens' personal data. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, which improves the european commission's proposals, although it is not yet known what will or will not be accepted. but the rapporteur understands that this vote will be completed when we know what you will accept. by letter of 11 july 2006 to president pöttering, mr diamandouros, the european ombudsman, asked the european parliament to initiate the procedure for amending the statute of the ombudsman as regards several provisions which he considered not to be the most appropriate, namely: power of intervention in proceedings before the court of justice of the european union; access to documents of the institutions; statements by officials; information on possible criminal activities; cooperation with international institutions in the field of human rights and fundamental rights. some of these issues were already examined by parliament in 2001 on the initiative of mr söderman, the ombudsman. at that time, on 6 september 2001, parliament adopted a resolution based on a report by the committee on constitutional affairs, which proposed a number of amendments very similar to the proposals now being made. at the same time, an agreement with the council, apparently supported by the commission, was reached, but the discussions were not concluded because the mandate expired.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adamos adamou report on organ transplantation and donation: policy action at eu level, as i consider that raising awareness of organ donation and transplantation, maintaining the non-commercial character of donations and combating global organ trafficking are important measures to ensure the quality and safety of donations in europe. given the growing need for organ transplantation, the increase in waiting lists for transplants, and the consequent increase in the number of deaths due to a shortage of donated organs, the promotion of better transplantation policies in the eu is crucial to save more lives and offer a better quality of life to european citizens.
in writing. − the therapeutic use of human organs to replace a defunct organ with one from a donor, if successful, can ensure a full and healthy life for many years for people who would otherwise often need intensive care. although the use of human organs for transplantation has increased in recent decades in eu countries, the number of people in need of a transplant still exceeds the number of organs available for transplantation. official studies indicate that some 40 000 patients are currently on waiting lists in western europe. the mortality rate for patients waiting for a heart, liver, or lung transplant is between 15 and 30 percent. to minimize the risk to the recipient, it's important to test the donors. as mentioned in the report, it is essential to screen donors and verify the presence or absence of a risk of disease transmission, which implies a series of tests. however, there is currently no consensus among member states on these tests. that is why this report is important in encouraging greater cooperation.
in writing. - there is no doubt that the so-called 'volunteering' has a very important social role, as a contribution to finding answers to the problems and needs of citizens, in particular by promoting effective solidarity and mutual assistance. we therefore disagree with the view that 'volunteering' is a 'significant saving for public services'. on the contrary, we believe that their role will be all the more important the more the public services provided and guaranteed by the states to their citizens are strengthened. as mentioned, it is essential to ensure that 'volunteering' will 'complement, not replace, the activity of public services'. 'volunteering' cannot be used as a pretext or a lever to promote the discharge of the state from its social responsibilities by giving it to pseudo-charitable organisations. it is in this context that we are calling for effective and adequate support for non-profit organizations, among many others, the cooperative movement, local authorities and societies, residents' committees, sports, recreational, cultural, youth or child-oriented associations. finally, we would stress that voluntary work also depends on workers having free time, as long as intensive exploitation is not imposed by working hours, low wages or precariousness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which stresses the contribution of volunteering to achieving economic and social cohesion in the eu. there are more than 100 million european citizens who are engaged in voluntary activity, which corresponds to an economic contribution of 5% of gdp on average. volunteering facilitates the direct involvement of citizens in local development and plays an important role in the acquisition of skills and in the development of the employability of volunteers, allowing them to acquire a wide range of skills and competences. i support this report which stresses that member states and regional and local authorities must recognise the value of volunteering in promoting economic and social cohesion and must set up strategies to encourage volunteering. the commission should work towards the creation of a system applicable to all community funds, the aim of which is to recognise voluntary activity as a contribution to the co-financing of projects. the commission, the member states and regional and local authorities should promote volunteering at all levels of education so that it is seen as a normal contribution to life in the community.
in writing. − i affirm the social value of volunteering and support its development and appreciation in our societies. i would like to clarify that the reality of volunteering may still be unclear in statistical data, definitions and their use. the clarifications contained in the report seem to me to be important and the measures suggested to clarify the existing data on this type of activity are necessary, as this is an unpaid activity which must therefore be clearly differentiated from the activities of non-governmental organisations. the added value of these voluntary activities is very important for our societies and it is therefore legitimate to recognise and distinguish it. however, we should not take advantage of its altruistic nature to replace the efforts that companies, the authorities responsible or the private sector must make to enhance the opportunities offered at community level. the various community funds are designed to promote the dynamism of the european economy, socioeconomic cohesion and the sustained growth and development of european societies. volunteering is a bonus that we as citizens offer to others, which we should encourage and recognise, but never a bonus that we should take advantage of or use as an excuse to reduce our efforts to offer and create an ever better quality of life in european societies.
in writing. − the eib, as a public institution managing large amounts of finance, should provide detailed information on the projects and actions financed. the eib currently provides some general information on the projects financed, including the country receiving the funds, but this is not sufficient. we therefore regret that an amendment by our group in this parliament which called for the eib to disclose the identity of the final beneficiaries of global loans granted through financial intermediaries in the interests of transparency has been rejected. on the other hand, and among other important points, we disagree with the eib's aim of completing the single market by financing infrastructure aimed at liberalising markets - as is the case with energy - or with its emphasis on financing so-called public-private partnerships, in a logic of using public means to finance large private capital. on the contrary, the eib should use its financial means as an instrument for the effective achievement of 'economic and social cohesion', promoting actions to reduce regional disparities, promote real convergence and stimulate growth and employment, particularly in the economically less developed regions of the eu, as well as for an effective cooperation policy.
in writing. - among other important aspects we would like to stress that: - it is significant that 'doubts' have re-emerged about the use of community funds in the context of the eu's so-called 'external action'. doubts about the final recipients, the amounts actually spent, the projects financed and the actual use of the funds (we add iraq, afghanistan and kosovo, to name a few examples). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. why would i do that? - i know . the amount of commitments still to be settled for structural policies and the cohesion fund also continued to increase, reaching eur 131.6 billion. - it should be recalled that, under the 'n+2 rule', this amount 'expires' if it is not used by the end of 2008. - i know . it should also be noted that the court of auditors points out that, under the common agricultural policy, the single payment scheme has led to a significant increase in the number of hectares and beneficiaries for which direct aid is paid. among these the court identified railway companies, equestrian/breeding clubs and golf/recreational clubs, as well as municipal chambers, and recognised the granting of rights to owners who had never engaged in any agricultural activity...
in writing. − the discharge for the 2006 european parliament budget is marked by the suspicion, unacceptably widespread among all members, of the decision to classify as 'confidential' the internal audit report for 2006, which allegedly refers to irregularities in the use of the parliamentary assistance allowance. such a decision puts all elected members of the european parliament under suspicion, which we cannot accept. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the report of the internal auditor. as regards multilingualism, it is worrying that the use of the official languages of the eu is increasingly being assessed from the so-called 'economic' perspective - that is, taking into account their costs - and that new provisions are periodically being introduced to restrict their use, putting into question the right of the different participants to speak and be heard in their mother tongue at meetings or official visits within the framework of the european parliament's activities. we also regret that parliament did not approve the amendment tabled by our group calling for the use of open source software in the ep.
in writing. - there is much talk of 'transparency' and much demand in this area from (some) member states, particularly in the field of budgetary and economic policy. however, the council, the supranational decision-making body of the eu which includes representatives of the governments of the different member states - whose powers will be increased if the lisbon treaty is adopted - seems to be immune to such 'requirements' as it has not presented the annual report on its activities. "do as i say, not as i do"... this could be the motto of the council's action on the 2006 discharge procedure. the european parliament's report voted today, although it does not adopt a more firm position criticising this council position, at least calls for a review of this decision and for more information, in particular as regards the financial amounts used in the framework of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), calling for the exact nature of expenditure to be indicated, heading by heading, and for ex post evaluation of the 'missions' in the framework of the european security and defence policy and the activities of the eu special representatives - we say, the clarification of the financial amounts used in the eu's policy of intervention and militarisation.
in writing. − the present statement of vote is only to point out that one of the elements analysed in the discharge of the court of auditors for 2006 was the insufficiency of its staff concerned, given the workload faced by this eu institution. in previous years it had already been found that there was not a sufficient number of officials in the court to ensure that it could fully carry out its supervisory functions. despite some efforts in this direction, shortcomings persist. the european parliament's own report reveals that this is partly due to the discrepancy between the wages offered and the high cost of living in luxembourg, where the court of auditors is located. we would say that the policy of 'price stability', that is, wage restraint, is showing its effects here too: more exploitation.
in writing. − created after nato's aggression against the former yugoslavia, this agency manages the main eu 'assistance' programmes in the balkans. its objectives are clear and include, of course, 'aid' to 'reform' processes leading to the creation of institutions and a 'rule of law' in the image and measure of the eu's ambitions, namely the establishment of a 'market economy', i.e. capitalist. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external action is not disrupted by the threat of a nuclear war. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external action was adopted by the council on 22 december. in other words, the unacceptable transformation of this agency into another instrument to support the eu's policy of interference in other regions of the world.
in writing. - in recent years, from the treaty of nice to the so-called 'lisbon' treaty proposal, there has been a proliferation of community agencies or other bodies which, based on a wide range of objectives, often serve as a catalyst for strengthening the increasingly supranational character of the institutions and policies of the european union. these agencies and bodies, which were generally set up to 'coordinate' or 'assist' the member states in different fields, have been progressively increasing in number: their number, taking into account the discharge procedure, was 8 in 2000 and more than 20 in 2006! the following examples are not exhaustive: the agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the eu member states (frontex), the european railway agency, the european environment agency, the european agency for reconstruction (balkans), the european food safety authority, the european maritime safety agency, the european aviation safety agency, etc. as regards the discharge of these agencies, the court of auditors points out as a general consideration their failure to comply with the rules laid down in the financial regulation, the staff regulations, the award of contracts, among other examples, in the exercise of their activities.
in writing. − among other possible and relevant considerations on the discharge of the agency's budget, it is worth highlighting the large amounts remaining at the end of 2006, especially since two amending budgets were adopted in that year with the aim of increasing its budget. following these amending budgets, the budget of this agency amounted to eur 19,2 million. at the end of 2006, the agency's own accounts showed that it had €14.3 million in cash! some irregularities were also found in the management of staff, in particular with regard to the criteria and procedures for recruitment which were not in accordance with the general provisions implementing the staff regulations of officials of the eu institutions (moreover, a recurrent situation in the budget discharge of the various community agencies, where several criticisms were made for non-compliance with the staff regulations). such is the political will to move forward in the communitarianisation of 'border management' at eu level and to create frontex - which we obviously reject - that the financial means have been made available beyond the demonstrated capabilities. in fact, in 2006, it was the biggest step of the leg...
we all know that europe and the world have been suddenly caught by surprise by a problem whose scale and economic and humanitarian consequences require a multifaceted approach and response at european and international level. this is not, of course, an agricultural problem, but it is a problem which cannot be solved without agriculture. we know the different causes, but we are far from knowing the weight of each of them in the present situation: simply increased demand, biofuels, the coincidence of bad harvests in various parts of the world, the consequences of climate change, pure speculation arising from the previous causes? the commission must be mobilized to give us a prompt and accurate answer to these questions. on the other hand, there is the increased importance of the debate we are having on the health check and the wto negotiations have to be deepened and accelerated. as policy makers, this crisis requires us to answer a few questions, of which i would like to highlight: is the liberal model which has been progressively applied to the common agricultural policy effective in dealing with these kinds of problems? how can we produce more without compromising the sustainability of resources, and what alternatives can be found, especially for animal feed? what new intervention mechanisms must we adopt so that public strategic stocks are not simply replaced by private speculative hoarding? are the priorities of the european union's cooperation policies and of international institutions set correctly? to avoid even more sudden surprises or even more serious situations, we must act quickly. the socialists, and in particular those involved in the agricultural sector, are aware of their responsibilities and are ready to take part in this debate and to contribute to finding effective solutions to what may quickly become the most important global problem.
mr president, the increase in demand from emerging economies, the increase in oil prices and climate change are factors which have contributed to the increase in food prices worldwide, but they do not explain everything. the troubled growth of financial markets has contributed to increased speculation, attracted by the returns offered by commodity funds. the evidence is the increase in the price of not only foodstuffs but also nickel, silver and gold. since 2005, food prices have increased by 83 percent, which, combined with the high percentage of income that the poorest spend on food, makes this the single most important factor in increasing poverty and inequality. but even more serious is the fact that we could be on the verge of a planetary tragedy of incalculable proportions, which could lead to starvation and the death of millions of people. this is what the international monetary fund warned when it stated that if food prices remain at current levels, more than 100 million people, mostly in africa, could die. concerted international action is therefore urgently needed to increase aid to those most in need, because we are dealing with millions of cases which are life or death. but it's not enough! the creation of mechanisms to regulate international trade and to supervise financial markets effectively is needed to prevent speculative operations which benefit only a small minority at the expense of hundreds of millions of poor and defenceless people. the european union has an obligation to take the lead in this process at world level, because only in this way can the goal of eradicating poverty and achieving peace in the world cease to be a utopia.
the rise in food prices in the european union and developing countries has a number of causes, but the contribution of the cap and the shift from agriculture to biofuels cannot be ignored. several entities are highlighting this issue. for example, the scientific council of the european environment agency has argued that the eu should suspend the 10% target for biofuels by 2020. even the president of the world bank has pointed out that some countries have nutritional problems and has asked producers of raw materials for biofuels to temporarily abandon their crops. the fao itself has already warned of social uprisings for lack of food. in several countries in africa and asia, there are demonstrations and severe social tensions caused by food shortages. jean ziegler, the un special rapporteur on the right to food, recalled that the mass production of biofuels is a crime against humanity because of its impact on world food prices. it is therefore less likely that the european commission has confirmed that it remains firm in its objective of obtaining by 2020 10% of the fuel used in road transport from biomass or oilseeds.
the question period is now over (b6-0019/2008). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 45 by mr manolis mavrommatis (h-0218/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: exchange of information on bank accounts the recent tax scandal in liechtenstein has had repercussions in many eu member states. investigations by the competent authorities have revealed that nationals of member states are involved in tax evasion. i understand that the finance ministers of the 27 have asked the relevant commission directorate-general to carry out the investigation quickly and to submit a proposal for a revision of the legal framework to allow the exchange of information on citizens' bank accounts. in this context, how will the personal data of citizens be protected and, at the same time, will transparency be ensured and money laundering be prevented? what procedure will the commission propose to ensure that the 'opening' of bank accounts is carried out in accordance with the law? how do you envisage the harmonization of the tax systems of the member states to avoid similar situations of money laundering through bank accounts in the future?
question no 46 by mr saïd el khadraoui (h-0234/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: particulate matter emissions from mopeds a study by the university of utrecht suggests that mopeds emit large amounts of particulate matter and ultrafine particles. scientists measured the emissions of bicyclists and motorists in 12 medium-sized cities. this allowed the conclusion that the amount of particles to which the cyclists were exposed reached the highest values when they approached a moped. the motorcycle engines will even emit more particles per second than heavy vehicles. although directive 2002/51/ec oj l 252, 20.9.2002, p. 20, lays down the emission standards applicable to such vehicles, it omits the rules on particulate matter. is the commission aware of the environmental pollution caused by mopeds? what does the commission intend to do to deal with this problem properly?
question no 47 by mr johan van hecke (h-0243/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: 2.2 billion children in need of help the european union is also committed to the protection of children and young people, and to the protection of the environment. one in six children born in sub-saharan africa is at risk of dying before the age of five. according to the united nations children's fund (unicef), more than 27,000 children die every day, mostly from preventable diseases. the latest statistics from unicef show that there are 93 million school-age children around the world who are not in school, of which 41 million are in sub-saharan africa, 31.5 million in south asia, and 6.9 million in the middle east and north africa. considering that the convention on the rights of the child celebrates its 20th anniversary next year, the figures quoted are disheartening. does the commission intend to take concrete measures to combat the exploitation of children, whether in the sex industry or in situations where they are used as soldiers? will the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which incorporates the rights of the child, strengthen the commission's capacity to act in this field?
question no 48 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0160/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: reforms of the social security system in greece council decisions and commission documents repeatedly refer to the need to modernise and improve the social security systems of the member states, to adapt the retirement age limits and to the negative consequences of early retirement for the economy and society. does the commission participate in the adaptation process in an advisory capacity and evaluate new legislative measures in the member states? given that the recent reforms of the social security system in greece are a matter of national competence, is the commission carrying out an assessment of them?
question no 49 by mr eoin ryan (h-0179/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: fight against youth and longterm unemployment in europe can the commission describe in detail the initiatives it has taken this year to combat youth and long-term unemployment in europe and in particular the programmes it is promoting to ensure that unemployed people acquire new skills in the field of information technologies?
question no 50 by mr robert evans (h-0185/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu anti-discrimination law under current eu law, only in the field of employment and vocational training are eu citizens protected against discrimination on grounds of age, religion or belief, disability or sexual orientation, while in the fields of education, social protection and access to goods and services, anti-discrimination legislation applies only if it is based on racial or ethnic origin. when legislation is being extended to include more categories of goods and services, has the commission considered the unintended consequences that such an extension may have? for example, in relation to any new legislation, what safeguards has the commission put in place to ensure that reductions for the elderly and beneficiary groups are not adversely affected?
mr president, we have finished answering these questions and obviously we cannot. the commissioner has heard the question and if he wishes to give any explanation in writing, he can do so. the honourable member could have intervened and made that reference in her speech a moment ago. questions 51 to 61 will be answered in writing. questions 62 and 63 are not called, since their subject is already on the agenda for this part-session.
question no 64 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0155/08) subject: fisheries agreement with morocco has the commission carried out an evaluation of the results of fishing operations by european union vessels under the latest fisheries agreement with morocco?
question no 65 by sharon bowles (h-0175/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: small fishermen is the commission aware of the creation of the small boat fishermen's association in the united kingdom following the fishing quotas applied this year? is the commission aware that in certain areas of the united kingdom these new quotas have meant that some small fleets can only catch one cod a day? while it is for the uk government to decide on the allocation of fishing quotas between small and large vessels, does the commission recognise the local and traditional importance of small fishing fleets, some of which have received sustainable development awards? does the commission not think that europe should do more to protect them? if so, how?
question no 66 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0183/08) subject: scheme for the slaughter of one third of the irish white meat fish sector can the commission give a detailed statement describing how the programme to slaughter one third of the white meat fish sector in ireland, at a cost of eur 60 million, is progressing?
question no 67 is therefore admissible.
question no 68 by mr gklavakis (h-0221/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: serious infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy in 2005 in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1447/1999 oj l 167, 2.7.1999, p. 5, member states shall regularly inform the commission of infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and provide full information on the penalties applied. the commission has recently published its sixth report on behaviour which seriously infringed the rules of the common fisheries policy in 2005, com ((2007) 0448). the data in the report show that each year the number of infringements increases and the number of fines imposed across the eu decreases. in 2005, the number of infringements registered increased by 8.1% and the amount of penalties decreased by almost 45% compared with 2004. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. can the commission state whether the various national systems for enforcing penalties ensure a level playing field between european fishermen? does the commission consider that it is appropriate to create a harmonised system for applying sanctions in cases of serious infringements of the rules of the common fisheries policy? how could fishermen's confidence in the uniform application of cfp rules be strengthened, so as to respect the rules for the conservation of fisheries resources?
question 69 will be answered in writing. question no 70 by giovanna corda (h-0157/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: progress of bluetongue in northern europe a recent study by two belgian universities shows the high risk of bluetongue becoming endemic in northern europe. since the spread of the disease is linked to the movement of the vector and the reinforcement of viral strains, should we not take urgent measures now to prevent the progression of this disease? moreover, the total number of bovine and ovine herds affected by the disease in belgium alone increased from 695 in 2006 to 6 857 in 2007. what measures does the commission intend to take in terms of antiviral research, vaccination campaigns and their financing?
since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 71 by marian harkin (h-0164/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: brazilian beef what requirements are currently required to be met in order to be authorised to import brazilian beef into the eu? question no 72 by brian crowley (h-0177/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: beef from brazil can the commission state in detail its current position on the major restrictions on imports of beef from brazil into the european union?
question no 73 by avril doyle (h-0166/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: proposal in the field of health can the commission state the reasons for the delay in the publication of the proposal on cross-border healthcare, given the political requirement to legislate in accordance with the judgments of the court of justice of the european communities in this area and the promise made when healthcare was excluded from the services directive (2006/123/ec oj l 376, 27.12.2006, p. 36)?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex).
the recent decisions of the court of justice in the laval-vaxholm case in sweden, the viking line case in finland and now the rüffert case in germany are nothing more than clarification of the real objectives and priorities of this european union. more specifically, the 'priority' of the principle of the 'freedom of establishment' as laid down in articles 43 and 46 of the treaty, which prohibits any 'restrictions on freedom of establishment'. the court of justice considers that the freedom of workers and their representative organisations to defend their rights and interests, in particular the respect of collective agreements, is a 'restriction' as well as an 'unlawfulness' under community law. in this way, social dumping and the attack on collective bargaining and contracting in the eu are legitimised and 'competition' between workers is promoted, by imposing in practice the prevalence of the so-called 'country of origin' principle, i.e. the application of lower wages and protection of rights for workers in contractual relations with employers. these decisions expose the class nature of the eu and who really cares (and drives) its neoliberal policies, refuting the whole discourse around a so-called "social europe", demonstrating how eu policies are dealing with the hard-won rights of workers.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. europe cannot embark on the exercise of pointing the finger at china out of fear, nor can it align itself with unprincipled competition by avoiding beijing's self-interested methods and criteria. both europe and china have an obligation to contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals: poverty reduction and conflict resolution in africa. both must assume that only by promoting sustainable development and good governance can their own interests and investments be sustainable and seen as legitimate in africa. in this report we have tried to look at china's presence in africa objectively, recognising both the positive and negative impacts. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the following principles: first, the eu needs to give a coordinated response to the challenges posed by china's supposedly unconditional policy. this response cannot be without regard to european principles. the eu must remain committed to development cooperation policy, especially with regard to human rights conditionality. because without respect for human rights there can be no good governance and without good governance and the rule of law that it implies, there will be no sustainable development in africa or anywhere else in the world. secondly, europe must involve china in the discussion of its african policies, but this cooperation cannot, of course, take place over the heads of africans. this trilateral engagement requires adequate support for the role to be played by african institutions such as the african union, nepad, other regional institutions and national governments and parliaments. europe should therefore increase its support for the strengthening of african civil societies to promote accountability by their governments. in this report we recommend that the eu should not miss opportunities to speak frankly with china, or about china in africa, particularly where this would involve private or public criticism. china wants to be seen as a responsible actor in africa, but often invokes the rhetoric of non-interference to try to justify unacceptable actions, such as the continued complacency towards the sudanese regime's blockade, the deployment of a un-african union hybrid force - long overdue in darfur - or its most recent and outrageous shipment of arms to the mugabe regime on a ship that is being - quite rightly - prevented from disembarking by zimbabwe's neighbouring countries. everything china does in africa actually has a political impact, whether it's positive or negative. on the other hand, china is proving to be a pragmatic, quick-learning power. it is therefore crucial that europe does not fail to make clear to beijing that what is expected of a permanent member of the un security council such as china is indeed to contribute to the promotion of the principles and objectives of the united nations. in this report we propose that the eu encourage china to increase its participation in multilateral donor meetings and to adopt specific internationally accepted criteria and guidelines on aid transparency, extractive industries, good governance, environmental protection, labour rights, etc., in order to ensure that africa is making a real contribution to poverty reduction, the millennium development goals and the promotion of peace and security. but europe must also look in the mirror and learn from its own mistakes and shortcomings in africa. member states need to deliver on official development assistance pledges and small and targeted aid will only help to enhance china's merit in providing rapid financing to africa. europe must improve the effectiveness of its aid and ensure coherence between its various policies, and this means that it must stop ignoring the crimes committed by certain oppressive african regimes, with whom it continues to deal, as usual, in flagrant contradiction to its proclaimed criteria and principles. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the excellent cooperation i have received from the shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues whose amendments have greatly enriched this report. i hope that broad consensus will continue to be reached tomorrow, especially since there are only a few amendments to be voted on. i myself have tabled three amendments: two involve minor corrections and the third is to reaffirm the european parliament's position, calling for the european union code of conduct on arms exports to become legally binding, thus avoiding the current paragraph 62 from repeating the call already contained in paragraph 66.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating mrs ana gomes on her excellent report, but in the short time i have i would like to draw the attention of the commissioner and his colleagues to a practical case of this relationship unfolding before our eyes. that case study is zimbabwe. the news in the papers is about a ship, a ship coming from where? from china. loaded with what? with guns, with guns for zimbabwe, small arms, grenades, mortars. he was prevented from landing in durban, but there are reports that he is heading to angola to bring in these weapons to harm the people of zimbabwe. we must take vigorous diplomatic action on china, and also on zimbabwe's neighbouring countries, so that this kind of perverse, this kind of lethal relationship does not develop and so that the election results can be respected. i believe that in dealing with china we have to draw china's attention, as a great power, a great country that it is, to its responsibilities on the international scene and to preserving peace and the rights of the people.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to recall that our colleague erika mann, who was the draftswoman for the opinion of the committee on international trade, could not be here. she asked me to stress this point which we have included in the report: it is about the importance for africa of developing its own strategy towards china, noting that such a strategy can enhance the reciprocal nature of trade relations between china and africa if it is focused on greater participation by african workers in chinese projects in africa, greater willingness on the part of china to transfer technology, and better access to chinese markets for african exports. permettez-moi maintenant de dire merci au commissaire michel et aux autres collègues pour leurs commentaires et les bonnes questions qu'ils ont posées. je peux comprendre le commissaire quand il observe que l'europe ne peut pas dicter unilatéralement des conditions à l'afrique, surtout quand la chine ne les applique pas. mais c'est justement la raison pour laquelle nous, européens, devons investir plus pour renforcer les sociétés civiles africaines, les institutions telles que les parlements, les médias libres, les universités, etc. pour que les africains eux-mêmes demandent et imposent des conditions telles qu'elles résultent des omd et qu'ils veillent à leur respect. je suis tout à fait d'accord avec le commissaire, d'ailleurs cela se voit dans le rapport, quand il observe que la rapidité dans le déboursement de l'aide ou des financements européens est capitale pour l'afrique et que l'action coordonnée et le partage de tâches entre les états membres et la commission sont essentielles pour faire face en ce moment à cette aisance avec laquelle la chine débourse en afrique sans bien en peser les conséquences, mis à part son intérêt propre. en ce qui concerne les critères du cadre de l'ocde, bien sûr que c'est à la chine de décider de son intérêt de les adopter, mais je crois que c'est notre rôle, d'après, d'ailleurs, nos expériences positives et négatives en afrique, d'inciter la chine à comprendre que son intérêt à long terme est d'assurer que les ressources naturelles africaines sont durablement exploitées et non pas ravagées et que, sans bonne gouvernance, rien n'est garanti, même pas à la chine. finalement, peut-être qu'une des conséquences positives de la présence croissante de la chine en afrique, c'est déjà ce débat et le rapport que nous allons adopter demain. la chine nous a quand même aidés à comprendre en europe qu'il y a un grand potentiel en afrique et qu'il y a des success stories en afrique. et j'espère bien que votre voyage, monsieur le commissaire, cette semaine en chine, vous permettra de contribuer à encourager l'engagement constructif, qui est proposé dans ce rapport, à la chine et aux africains, et de rappeler en fait à la chine, comme vous l'avez dit, en ce qui concerne non seulement le tibet, non seulement le myanmar, mais, aussi en ce qui concerne l'afrique, en particulier le zimbabwe et le darfour, ses responsabilités en tant que membre permanent du conseil de sécurité des nations unies. félicitations, monsieur le commissaire; si, en fait, votre action a contribué à faire renvoyer ce bateau en chine. c'est très positif.
mr president, the history of cooperation between the european union and latin america is a success story, but it has a special context today: the creation of the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly gives it a new impetus and a new impetus. i would say that it is the arrival of latin american and european members on the front line of integration. i hope that the european parliament will take this responsibility and approve the joint declaration we are considering, so that this joint declaration will serve as a guide for the summit of heads of state and government. i do not have much time to develop my argument, so i will take the words of the leader of my group, martin schulz, with whom i fully agree, but i would just like to make two brief remarks: the first is that europe has a special responsibility in solving the problem of colombia. europe must be strongly committed to the colombian question and contribute to the stability of that country and must also quickly find a solution for the normalization of relations between the european union and cuba. it is not worthwhile to maintain the present situation, we must move towards progress and cooperation.
it is a parliamentary component of latin america and europe and it is fundamental to the success of this summit, and it is fundamental to the two great objectives of latin american integration and cooperation between the european union and latin america, based on the values advocated here and, in particular, those which have been pointed out by the chairman of my parliamentary group. but i would like to stress and emphasize another aspect: the reason for this cooperation, the effectiveness of this cooperation, is important not only for the two continents - for latin america and for europe - but, because of the values that these two groups defend in the world, it is fundamental for the global framework in order to achieve results at the global level that have not been achieved in the millennium development goals, in multilateralism, in the pursuit of values that are those that guide the construction of europe and the european project. it was this overall aspect which, it seems to me, should justify the greatest commitment on the part of all of us and, in particular, of the parliamentary component.
mr president, mr mate, mr vice-president barrot, ladies and gentlemen, i have already expressed my concerns on this matter in this house on 10 march. i have considered and continue to consider that the united states has chosen a divide and rule strategy in proposing bilateral agreements under its visa waiver program. unfortunately, several member states have not been able to resist the temptation to try to move faster, forgetting that the common visa policy is undoubtedly a community competence, just as they are obliged to respect the principle of solidarity enshrined in the treaty. when these member states joined the european union, they committed themselves to respecting the entire acquis communautaire and agreed to share their sovereignty in common matters where a european approach should prevail. the signing of these bilateral agreements thus set a precedent which is totally contrary to the spirit which has been at the basis of european integration. i congratulate the council on the negotiating mandate it gave the commission on 18 april. we must prevent this process from weakening europe's negotiating position. i argued in march that it would have been preferable to have opted for the freezing of bilateral agreements until the negotiations between the commission and the united states were concluded. i call on the commission, mr barrot, not to compromise on matters of common interest, to keep a firm eye on the initiatives of each member state, not to hesitate to refer matters to the court of justice of the european communities in the event of a breach of community law and, above all, to keep this parliament informed of developments in the situation and of the level of solidarity, or lack thereof, shown by the various member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i did indeed want to propose an amendment to article 5 with a slight change in the text. the current text reads:calls on the eu to encourage the creation of an african partnership forum engaging all major donors and investors;and the amendment i am proposing is, i am reading:calls on the eu to ensure that the african partnership forum engages all major donors and investors, namely china; this amendment is due to the fact that we have come to the conclusion that the african partnership forum has just been set up and therefore it is a small amendment to reflect the current situation. it has been communicated to all the shadow rapporteurs, and i have no indication that there are any objections.
in writing. − the european global navigation satellite system (gnss), as the first community infrastructure and because of its technological importance in relation to space, can only succeed through a common will. the european gnss is designed to include two programmes: egnos and galileo. the importance of gnss is mainly due to the fact that it provides an alternative and complementary system to the us and russian systems. this objective involves a strategic, economic, industrial, security and many other interests which no member state can implement alone. as the first programme to have community funding and infrastructure, parliament will have, together with the council, increased responsibility for regulating the implementation and operation of the programmes. for the reasons i have outlined and because the completion of this project will represent a historic strategic milestone in the technological launch and autonomy of the eu, gnss and the report mentioned above deserve my full support as a solution for the future.
in writing. - the directive in question was designed to create a uniform status for third-country nationals legally residing in the territory of the union after five years of legal and uninterrupted residence in a member state. the aim of this initiative is to extend the scope of the directive to beneficiaries of international protection, in order to provide them with legal certainty in terms of residence and rights comparable to those of nationals. however, a gap remains as the directive does not provide for mutual recognition and the transfer of international responsibility to another member state, which ultimately prevents them from enjoying a right of free movement and establishment within the eu territory after their status has been recognised. the examination of these transfer requests thus continues to be governed by the 1951 geneva convention and the europe agreement of the council of europe. in this situation, it is equally important to ensure that the second member state concerned respects the principle of non-refoulement, so that the person concerned is not returned to a country where he or she is in danger, however much that person should be returned to the member state which granted him or her such protection. in all other respects i think they should meet the same requirements and be subject to the same requirements as the directive.
in writing. − the evaluation of the budgetary implementation of the 10th european development fund should not be purely accounting. that is not the role of parliament, as the report under vote clearly states. rather than discussing the integration of the edf into the commission's budget or the rules on the use of the remainder of each financial year, what concerns us is the consistency between the use of these resources and the political aims of the european union in relation to the acp countries. what is important here is that the reality we find on the ground today is very different from that which existed when these instruments and their framework were created. in addition to the china factor, which is to be taken into account in many of these countries, the effects of changes in the agricultural and food market, climate change and the new approach of the united states to africa must be considered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ana gomes report on china's policy and its effects on africa, as i considered that, in the light of china's growing presence on the african continent, the european union should seek, by adopting a common position on dialogue, to encourage china to guide its political and economic action in africa by criteria which do not conflict with the promotion of peace, human security, the rule of law or sustainable development. i also share the call for the european union itself to persevere in promoting respect for the principles on which it is founded, regardless of the success of its dialogue initiatives.
in writing. - the report in question is a fair account of the current state of chinese policy in africa, detailing investment, financing and policy consequences. unfortunately, in the proposals it is unrealistic, suggesting repeatedly that the eu should encourage china to adopt ideal behaviour in the field of human rights, workers' rights, respect for the environment, and finally to do in its foreign policy what it does not do in its internal policy. in the chapter on what should be done about the (correct) portrayal of chinese policy in africa and its consequences, there is a missing thread of what should be an eu strategy of its own and in partnership with countries such as india, brazil and (unacceptable failure) the united states. the current world situation is far from being able to be framed in the paradigms that have shaped geostrategic thinking in recent decades. the emergence of new economies with very different characteristics, the widespread and globalised increase in consumption, competition in the acquisition of essential goods and raw materials, the threat of social uprisings, the risk of preference for political regimes with muscles - all these new realities would require analysis and, above all, a more strategic and forward-looking proposal. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
mr president, i have been in burma and seen the misery and the oppression under which the burmese people live. disgracefully, europe has not done enough to help the burmese – their courageous monks, their political prisoners, their brave leader aung san suu kyi – to get freedom and to get rid of the junta oppressors. europe has not done enough to mobilise influential neighbours such as thailand, malaysia, singapore and especially indonesia to come in support for those who fight for human rights and democracy in burma. europe has not done enough to press china and india to stop supporting in one way or another the burmese oppressors. europe has not done enough to prevent and punish european companies such as the french total who keep doing business in burma, thus helping pay the drug mafia and the oppressors who form the burmese junta. europe must act now and refuse to accept the farce of a referendum. mr barroso and his commissioners heading to beijing today must talk firmly and clearly about burma and beijing’s responsibilities and its sad state. the current and the next council presidency must act decisively to make a difference for the people of burma, namely by strictly implementing the sanctions decided and by pushing the un security council to act against the burmese oppressors.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a massive irregular immigration crisis which has consequences for the security and cohesion of the whole of community europe. immigration is a phenomenon of enormous proportions which, especially in an area without internal frontiers, requires a european approach. i therefore support the creation of a european external border surveillance system, eurosur, to modernise and interconnect member states' border control systems to enhance the internal security of the union, to fight illegal immigration, to prevent cross-border crime and terrorism and to strengthen member states' capacity for rescue operations. i also support the central role that the frontex agency should play in the control and surveillance of the external borders. i agree that frontex should facilitate and make more effective the application of community provisions, both current and future, on the management of external borders, by ensuring coordination of member states' actions and, in particular, the technical and operational assistance to be provided to member states in need. but i would remind the council and the member states that these objectives can only be achieved if we provide this agency with the necessary human and financial resources, which was unfortunately not evident until very recently. as for the entry/exit system, i think we should be more careful. i am concerned about this succession of proposals concerning the surveillance of individuals who are multiplying at a mind-boggling rate. it seems that we are unable to complete what we have already approved and are running ahead without taking care to avoid any overlap or duplication of functions, or to assess the impact of these issues on the fundamental rights of individuals, or to establish the safeguards that seem appropriate. in my view, instead of proposing new mechanisms, the commission should be committed to making up for the delays and to putting systems such as sis ii and vis into operation as soon as possible.
i would also like to testify here to the extreme concern of the agriculture of the azores, my region, with the current situation. i think it has been demonstrated in this debate that there is no reason whatsoever to justify a policy which prohibits the use of gmos in animal feed, while allowing the consumption of meat produced with gmos. i also think that the exaggeration of the zero tolerance policy has become clear. finally, i would like to say that for anyone who knows the animal compound industry, there can be no doubt about the obvious impact that both of these factors have on feed prices. this impact is very clear, particularly in corn gluten feed and in the waste from the use of maize for the production of alcohol. i would call on the european commission to take account of the situation of farmers throughout europe.
in writing. - in an eu characterised by worsening socioeconomic conditions for workers and the general population - where the concentration of wealth, inequalities and poverty are constantly increasing - it is significant that neither the commission nor the majority of this parliament considers tackling this unacceptable situation as the top priority. it could not be otherwise if the eu's policies were not aimed at fostering this reality. the priorities thus set out are aimed at deepening neoliberal policies, insisting on further measures for the full implementation of the said single market (i.e. the liberalisation of the markets for services, goods and labour, with the implementation of flexicurity) and international trade, while accelerating the federalist and militarist agenda (which includes the revision of its strategic concept, along with that of nato), having as a basis of work the (already) unratified (!) treaty of lisbon. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the same people who want to do so rejected the amendment tabled by our group which denounced the decisions of the european court of justice which legitimized wage dumping and restricted trade union rights.
in writing. − please note that the debate on the 2009 community budget is being followed by a debate on the revision of the entire eu budget, as provided for in the interinstitutional agreement. while it is true that the actual outlines of the programme are not yet fully defined, some of the objectives already set are worrisome. moreover, the council's already announced intention to set a realistic and rigorous level of payments and to carefully analyse the level of commitment and payment appropriations in terms of absorption capacity, suggests further cuts in the structural and cohesion policy headings, which we oppose. on the contrary, we believe that the non-execution of all the amounts budgeted under these headings should be subject to a thorough analysis and that measures should be taken to ensure that they are fully implemented. the council also stressed the need to increase the funds for external action, which should provide adequate means compatible with the union's ambitions. the rejection of our amendment helps us to understand better what this means: strongly opposes the council's calls for additional funding for military expenditure under the european security and defence policy from the eu budget...
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the european union-latin america and caribbean summit, considering the lima summit an exceptional opportunity to consolidate the strategic partnership between the two regions and to intensify efforts to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015, in particular with regard to the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, the protection and guarantee of human rights, with particular attention to the situation of women, the deepening of social cohesion, and the reduction of poverty. i share the growing conviction that the creation of a migration observatory is important to enable us to better understand the migratory flows between latin america and the caribbean and the eu. joint cooperation actions are needed to protect the environment, biodiversity and forests, and to combat climate change, desertification and water scarcity.
in writing. - despite the careful way in which this resolution has been drafted, it is difficult to disguise the underlying desire that the global bi-regional partnership and the euro-latin american interregional global partnership area become the embryo of a future free trade area (with free movement of goods, services and capital), which will allow the eu to promote latin american integration in line with its image and the ambition of its major financial and economic groups - see the objectives of the association agreements between the eu and the different countries and regions of latin america (such as mexico and chile). the resolution's use of the exhaustive repetition of principles, values and interests which are intended to become common is, in the agenda of some, nothing more than a way of seeking to promote the neocolonialist pretensions and the interference of eu powers in relation to latin america. what the eu wants, and deserves our direct opposition, is the appropriation by the big transnational corporations of the wealth created, of natural resources and of biodiversity, at the expense of the exploitation of workers, unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers, environmental destruction and progress, the rights and sovereignty of peoples.
in writing. − the problem of biodiversity loss is one of the greatest challenges facing society today, and is becoming even more worrying with the effects of climate change. concern about the loss of biodiversity due to climate change goes beyond the protection of endangered species. indeed, the reduction of biodiversity makes ecosystems less productive and less effective in the services they provide to human populations. for example, carbon sequestration decreases dramatically in soils depleted of biodiversity, making climate change even more acute. i therefore support this resolution, hoping that the eu will continue to take an ambitious stance within the united nations convention on biological diversity.
in writing. - while the report contains a number of points which we regard as positive, such as the need for greater coordination between the activities of the wto and those of the ilo, unep, undp, who and unctad, it does contain some warm remarks on the liberalisation of international trade, which are not critical in any way. the round words used only serve to mitigate criticism and mask the responsibilities of those who, like social democracy, seek a way out of the crisis facing the capitalist system. the liberalization of world trade is reaffirmed, albeit in a mitigated way, and its consequences are completely ignored. the liberalization of international trade has promoted the opening up of markets between countries with huge disparities in the levels of economic development, to the benefit of the major economic and financial groups, notably the eu. a report which insists on the myth that it is by liberalizing trade, as an element of the offensive of neoliberal capitalist globalisation, that economic development and the progress of peoples will be ensured. the fact is that the world is experiencing growing inequalities, and this trend will only increase if the current neoliberal policies continue. the rise in food prices there is showing this. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. - a real 'handbook' for the free trade agreements (ftas)... the text is full of non-critical references, but on the contrary, to the reduction, elimination and liberalisation of non-tariff barriers, to concerns about possible distortions of competition caused by public subsidies, to the importance of increasing the liberalisation of services and investment, as well as of public procurement, not to mention the more or less explicit support for the said lisbon treaty. the resolution is so neoliberal that it has led the social democrats to come out of the closet to whitewash their connivance with its content by introducing a set of amendments aimed at its (pseudo) smoothing out - that capitalism with a human face... once again, the aim of these tlcs is to bring in through the window what could not be brought in through the door. by concluding such agreements with different regions and countries of the world, the eu is seeking to achieve the gradual liberalisation of international trade, complementing the wto negotiations. we firmly reject the ftas (regardless of their best or worst mystified presentation), and we believe that mobilizations, convergences and struggles are necessary to demand a break with the neoliberal policies, which have had such harmful consequences for the workers and the peoples.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by anne ferreira on the green paper on market instruments for environmental and related policy purposes, recognising that the use of such instruments is essential in the pursuit of workable and effective environmental policies. measures that improve the functioning of markets, such as the application of the polluter-pays principle, which allow for the imputation of costs to economic activities that result in environmental damage, are a form of state intervention to be encouraged, with evidence of environmental protection.
in writing. - i support the anne ferreira report because i consider the use of market-based instruments such as taxation, subsidies or emissions trading for environmental purposes to be an important, but not the only, tool for promoting sustainable development. although i agree with the report in general terms, i consider it premature to introduce a single european co2 tax, as i consider it not very practical to have this tax coexist with the european emissions trading system. i also disagree with the idea of replacing existing community provisions for the protection of the environment with market instruments which, by their very nature, are no alternative to regulation.
in writing. − following an initiative by the european commission, this report sets out a set of guidelines by the european parliament for the creation of market-based instruments for environmental and related policy purposes - a perspective which raises our most serious reservations and concerns. the aim is to reduce pollution and protect the environment by applying so-called market measures, implementing the polluter-pays principle, the costs of which will ultimately be borne by final consumers, usually households, who already bear the brunt of paying environmental taxes and duties. the report even mentions the payment of water consumption fees that reflect the costs of using the resource and the environmental costs. it is noted that there are already proposals to replace income-based taxation with a taxation based on the polluter-pays principle, either at the level of individual countries or as the basis for a future eu own resource. in addition to taxation measures, a system of trading in co2 emission allowances is introduced, where large economic interests dominate and financial speculation is encouraged. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. − since january 2005, eu listed companies are obliged to use international accounting standards for their consolidated financial statements. these standards are developed by a private organisation (the international accounting standards committee foundation and the international accounting standards board (iascf/iasb)) which relies on private funds (mostly from companies in the same industry) and is not subject to any public scrutiny. this report, although it contains elements which merit our reservations, proposes some measures aimed at overcoming this situation, being cautious about the possibility of applying this type of international accounting standards to small and mediumsized enterprises. however, it must be made clear that palliatives - measures that seek to minimise the consequences of financial speculation and prevent the occurrence of situations that lead to the collapse of the international financial system as a way of perpetuating the increasing liberalization of capital movements - are not the cure for the patient. we must tackle the root of the problem: the progressive financialization of the economy and the increasing financial speculation, with the consequent flight of investment from the productive sphere. we must put the financial systems at the service of the progress of peoples and their countries and not of big capital!
mr president, events in zimbabwe would be ridiculous if they were not so dramatic and could in fact become quite tragic. what is the purpose of elections? the purpose is the democratic election of a government. this means the voting process must be free and fair, the votes must be counted, the results published and the people’s choice respected. that is not the case in mugabe’s zimbabwe. the non-publication of results and the recount in the way it has been ordered are completely absurd. the international community must follow this attentively. we must listen to the warnings of religious leaders who appeal to our sense of responsibility since they are afraid that this could result in a very violent crisis of genocidal dimensions. this is also a test for international bodies and we must put pressure there – the sadc, the african union and the un. finally, concerning the chinese vessel: there are reports that it may be going back to china, as commissioner michel informed us on tuesday. however, we need confirmation, and i urge the commission to put pressure on china – it must be a political decision and not just a decision of the shipping company.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. since the islamic revolution in 1979, the iranian authorities have successively curtailed all and most important women's rights. stoning, mutilation, violation of privacy and the most basic rights are now the daily rules in this country. it is in response to this situation that we see a society reacting in ever clearer and more forceful ways. the movement for one million signatures that has been developing for about two years in iran is, from this point of view, one of the most important manifestations of civil society that demonstrates how iranians are against the regime they are subjected to. in the last two years we have already recorded, among the petitioners of this movement alone, about a hundred prison sentences or harsh punishments. after these motions were submitted, and just today, we received news from various human rights organizations that three women activists in this movement - nasrin afzali, nahid jafari and zeynab peyghambarzadeh - have been sentenced to suspended prison sentences and flogging. this is an intolerable situation and i would appeal to all colleagues to make a real gesture of condemnation of this situation and to support iranian women.
in writing. it is impressive to continue to hear the commission and the european union's top officials talk about the successes of the euro area, even when the statistics themselves show otherwise, whether in terms of economic growth or the quality of life of the population. the successes they are referring to are, of course, the increase in profits and the fabulous gains that economic and financial groups have made during these first ten years of economic and monetary union. but it is unacceptable that they systematically forget the worsening of social inequalities, the increase in precarious and low-paid work, which is driving millions more and more workers into poverty, worsening their exploitation and preventing them from being able to guarantee their children a decent life. it is therefore not surprising that the plan the european commission is putting forward is more of the same: more economic surveillance to ensure greater competitiveness and financial stability for economic groups, more budgetary supervision to push for the liberalisation of public services and more pressure and control to prevent wage increases. so we will have greater social tensions and more struggles to defend social and labour rights and to prevent the worsening of exploitation.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the commission statement on the revision of council directive 94/45/ec of 22 september 1994 on the establishment of a european works council.
we have a problem with time, since the council has to intervene in the next debate and will have to be absent from a certain time, so i will apologize to the members, i will have to be very strict in respecting the time of speaking.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by welcoming the work that the commission has been doing with the social partners to revise the directive on the european works council. but i understand that the distance between the european discourse and the concrete realities of citizens' daily lives has contributed to the increase in the lack of trust between companies and workers. raising the level of trust between the parties has thus become crucial if the european union is to become more competitive and more supportive. the more intensive the social dialogue, the more transparent the decisions taken in the context of adjustment or restructuring processes. by improving the flow of information between employers and workers, we will be contributing to a better understanding of the impact of international phenomena, as well as to a better acceptance by both sides of the search for solutions to restructuring processes. the legal mechanisms relating to the procedures for consultation and participation of workers should therefore be revised and modernised in order to provide a legal framework which promotes the articulation of social dialogue. it is with this logic and this thought that i call on the european trade union confederation to reconsider its position and to sit down at the negotiating table to discuss this proposal for a directive with employers' representatives. if that is not possible, i shall have to regret it, but i must also say that the commission must take up its responsibilities and it would be good if the process of revising this directive were completed during the term of office of this parliament and this commission.
mr president, these processes of restructuring, mergers, partial or total relocation of multinationals in various countries of the european union, including my own country, portugal, are taking place without respect for workers' rights, without any dialogue with the trade unions - as has been said many times here - without even direct information. the strengthening of the protection of workers' rights implies a revision of this directive, which should have been done long ago. but not a review just to confirm the information. a review is needed to ensure the participation of workers, their representatives, trade unions in this whole process and also to ensure that they are able to speak out and oppose, where appropriate, including therefore the right to veto restructuring or relocation which does not respect workers' rights, the rights of regions, the rights of countries. this work should have been done a long time ago, and so, commissioner, here is the challenge: do not put it off any longer.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the debate on the european works council brings to the table a number of proposals which go in the right direction: to deepen the idea of participation, cooperation and partnership between the various parts of the enterprise. but there is also in this debate a constant insistence on an anti-economic view which, in pursuit of a generous purpose, often results in a set of proposals which do not promote economic success or guarantee employment. this is the case with measures which try to save jobs even when the firms or the industry concerned are not viable. no one would think of banning the use of digital cameras or advocating a social surcharge on their price. however, the widespread consumption of it has directly caused the loss of thousands of jobs in the industry that produces film for "old" cameras. the broad participation of workers must be based on an idea of employability, of protecting people, of overcoming economic crises, and not on a vision where economic reality is a detail. technological developments and the opening up of markets must be seen as opportunities, and this is the direction in which the business dialogue should be directed.
that's just the way it is. the death penalty, torture, starvation are the barbarities that persist in this world that we partly govern. but things can only go on as long as we want them to. the europe of the enlightenment, of values, of dignity, fails to be coherent in its policies. the european parliament and the council do not always take exactly the same positions on this matter, but there is only one way forward and that is through the coherent action of the european institutions in all their internal and external policies. we look forward to the virtualities of the new external action service in the treaty of lisbon on human rights. but looking around the world and looking at the examples of our concern, the united states has the death penalty like africa. china doesn't just have tibet, it has slave labor, torture, summary death. it is with these examples that we must confront our lack of coherence. europe needs a proactive human rights policy. the mobilization of civil society is important, but we must not forget that the fight for rights is primarily the responsibility of the authorities of the states and their diplomacy. the french president is right not to be present at the beijing olympic games. the other heads of state of the union should also not be present. the union is a unit founded on values. declarations and resolutions do not reach europe. the european union cannot sell its soul.
the real crisis in large areas of northern portugal, resulting from the closure of many small and mediumsized enterprises, the relocation of multinationals and the practice of very low wages, has forced more than 100 000 workers in recent years to move to spain and other countries of the european union, in most cases to work in civil construction. but they have often been victims of precarious situations, in many cases of abandonment, in others of breach of contracts and promises made, of lower wages than the legal ones, of working overtime, and finally of the general breach of obligations by the companies that hire them. we therefore insist on the urgent need for effective monitoring in the countries in this situation and the urgency of taking action against such illegalities. for example, the unions have pointed to the suspension of the license of construction companies that do not respect the rights of workers and the requirement of a monthly report with the full list of workers in their service, including those who are displaced, and the fulfillment of their obligations.
in the face of morocco's deplorable and constant attempts to block and impede the negotiations on the realization of the inalienable right of self-determination of the sarawi people, which are currently taking place under the auspices of the un, i would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm the demand for full respect for the right of self-determination of the sarawi people, the only realistic, just and lasting solution to the conflict, that is, to end the ignominious colonization, in compliance with international law and un resolutions, to denounce and condemn the brutal repression by morocco in the occupied territories against the sarawi patriots who resist colonization and who are fighting for the legitimate right of self-determination of their people, to denounce the genuine humanitarian drama facing the sarawi people, forced to live in camps and outside their homeland, and to demand urgent international humanitarian aid and refugee camps.
on behalf of the pse group. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who, like struan stevenson, have contributed to improving this report. i would like to ask everyone, above all, not to repeat the dramas we have seen in recent decades on the sea bottom with regard to cod fishing and other harmful fisheries. it is essential to observe the precautionary principle. management oriented towards the principle of ecosystem management is essential. it is essential to preserve a sustainable fishery. in this report there is indeed a proposal which is included in paragraph eight which, on the whole, seems to me well-intentioned but which has a part in it that talks about the prohibition of fishing on seamounts, which would be impractical in the azores because the bottom fishery is practically all done on seamounts. for this reason we cannot support this paragraph as suggested and we will of course vote for the proposal made by the socialist party to amend this paragraph. but, in essence, what i think we all have to take into account is that it is not possible to repeat the mistakes of the past at the bottom of the sea, in environments that are much more fragile than those on the surface. as has been said here, the maturation of all species on the sea floor is much slower, the damage is much more complicated to repair and therefore it is not possible to do the same as has been done above. i therefore ask the european commission to pay the utmost attention to this.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. in order to ensure sustainable exploitation of resources, we welcome the inclusion in the report of the need to invest in scientific research into fisheries, devoting more human and financial resources to it, the adoption of appropriate socioeconomic measures to compensate fishermen for the costs of reducing fishing activity linked to plans for the rebuilding of stocks or the participation of fishermen in the development of measures to protect the marine environment and manage resources. finally, as has been pointed out, we stress the need to find solutions that are differentiated by species and that take account of the selective fishing gear used in each region.
in writing. - considering it important to maintain and improve the agreement with the republic of seychelles, we agree with the view that it is inappropriate to include in the text of the protocol (which lays down fishing opportunities and the financial contribution) considerations on the state of local port infrastructure and the possibility of changing matters (including the objectives of the use of financial contributions) which are the exclusive competence of the seychelles authorities. we also reject the proposal to include measures such as the suspension of licences by the european commission which do not take into account, in particular, the respect and safeguarding of the member states' competences. furthermore, the principle of equal pay for equal work remains not respected, as the agreement only provides that the conditions of remuneration of seychelles crews on board vessels from eu countries which will benefit from the agreement may not be lower than those applicable to seychelles crews performing similar tasks on board vessels from that country.
in writing. - the application of more specific rules, with specific, different and specific measures and exceptions, which are suitably adapted to the economic realities of the ors and more favourable to their productive capacities, deserve our support. this report aims at the application of a special rate of excise duty to beer produced in madeira. this rate, which is lower than the rate fixed at national level, applies where the annual production of the brewery does not exceed 300 000 hectolitres. as the commission points out, the price of locally produced beer, even with the 50% tax advantage, remains 7,5% higher than the retail price of beer produced in mainland portugal and sold on the madeira market. if the advantage is no longer present, local production will not be able to compete. for all these reasons, and taking into account the specificities and requirements of the situation in the outermost regions, we support measures such as this one which aim to guarantee the right to produce according to the region's own potential, which recognize the regional economy and, consequently, guarantee the survival of the local brewing industry in the face of the national and multinational market.
in writing. - the european commission and the european parliament itself should pay greater attention to the cotton sector, which is of major socioeconomic importance for certain regions of the european union, notably greece and spain. the fact is that the introduction of the principle of single payment of production-dissociated aid in the 2003 cap reform led the commission in 2006 to put this principle into practice in the cotton sector. but spain appealed to the european court of justice, stating that this reform had not been preceded by any impact study, which was eventually accepted by the court, which annulled the application of the new cotton scheme. the only difference is that the proposal which the european commission has now put forward is virtually identical to the previous one. and just over a year after the reform of the cmo for cotton was implemented, its disastrous consequences are already apparent: production in the sector was reduced by about 20% in greece and by more than 50% in spain. similarly, the number of agricultural holdings fell by 11% in greece and by 25% in spain. the factories themselves are threatened. that is why we voted against this resolution.
in writing. - at a time when capitalism is facing a deepening crisis and its contradictions are deepening, this resolution and the objectives set for the creation (in the long term) of the so-called 'transatlantic market' represent a real break with the system, pointing to the increasing liberalization of the markets of these two poles of the 'triad' and pillars of nato as a 'way out'. in addition to reaffirming the strategic 'transatlantic' partnership, the resolution is a genuine roadmap for the liberalisation of financial markets and trade relations between the eu and the us, listing the obstacles to greater competition and capitalist concentration, for the benefit of the big financial and economic groups. the resolution, in an (impossible) attempt to disguise the real aims, contradictions and consequences of the creation of the so-called 'transatlantic market', does not fail to express presumed social or environmental concerns. however, these appear to arise only as a function of and as variables of capitalist competition, particularly at the wto level. although it mildly confronts the brutal reality of 'capitalist globalisation', the resolution glosses over its profound consequences for workers and people, for small and medium-sized enterprises, not only in the eu and the us but also internationally.
in writing. - the awareness that there is much more to the relations between the united states of america and the european union than questions relating to third countries (and that even there the disagreement is not necessarily irreconcilable) is of great importance and, as the debate, the texts known and the document adopted today show, can have beneficial consequences. it is therefore important to take the necessary steps to achieve the objective of strengthening transatlantic economic integration. in this connection, the efforts which have been made, particularly those aimed at eliminating non-tariff barriers (which are generally less visible but more strongly inhibit international trade), are, as recent studies have shown, of the greatest value. this should lead to greater commitment on both sides. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - we are confronted each year with this exercise in the ep's hypocrisy in relation to human rights in the world. obviously the report contains points which deserve our agreement. however, in its essence, it is a perfect example of the exploitation of human rights and their unacceptable use as a political weapon in the interests of the eu's great powers and its large financial and economic groups and against peoples who do not reject their dictates. this explains the total absence of reference to and denunciation of the flagrant violations of human rights in palestine, iraq, afghanistan, occupied cyprus or western sahara, perpetrated by eu countries and/or their allies, such as the usa, israel, turkey or morocco. the attempt to dissociate human rights once again, by subordinating and secondaryising economic and social rights, can thus be understood. the defence of human rights - including their indivisibility and non-hierarchical nature - and their consideration as an indispensable condition for respect for the rights of peoples and for true social justice, peace, freedom and democracy, are a cornerstone of our political action. they're counting on us to defend human rights, not for hypocritical exercises.
in writing. - the report voted on today, which follows the report of the council and the commission, has the advantage of being, in general, an up-to-date and critical portrait of human rights in the world. unfortunately, however, it's not much more than that. despite the effort to list several initiatives of the european parliament relating to specific situations, what seems to be insufficiently achieved is the objective of assessing the real impact of european policies on the promotion of human rights, and such an assessment, to be effective, would require a clear notion of real objectives, a complete picture of the totality of the policy instruments acting in this regard and, yes, the evaluation of the results obtained. otherwise our report will be an important and very significant listing, but it will never be as much as it could and should be. i therefore share the concern of several members, including the ppe, to review the terms on which this report and this debate are carried out each year.
in writing. - this ep own-initiative report should not be seen in isolation, but rather as an integral part of the eu's common foreign and security policy. the eu is therefore imbued with an attitude of arrogance and self-praise, exemplified by the eu's self-styled 'leader' in the field of international election observation. it is on the basis of this attitude of 'superiority' of the so-called 'values' and conduct of the eu that, not infrequently, attempts are made to use election observation missions as an instrument of pressure and interference in the internal affairs of countries, primarily those that insist on development projects based on the affirmation of national sovereignty and independence. if not, what is the real purpose of the eu's so-called 'common and comprehensive strategy for the promotion of democracy'? what is the purpose of eu funding of national parliaments and political parties in other countries? the answer has been given by reality itself. it is an attempt to impose the single model (capitalism) on the people. a model which serves the interests of intensifying exploitation, the imposition of the liberalization of international trade, which is willing to sacrifice the progress of peoples and the development of countries to the interests of multinationals.
in writing. - the election is by no means the only or even the most important moment of democracy. but it's often the turning point. in countries where there is no electoral tradition, holding elections can be, and often is, the occasion to make the process of democratization irreversible. but it's a process. for this reason, everything that is said here in this report about the successes, the difficulties and shortcomings and the need for reform of the eu's election observation missions is important, deserves our greatest attention, but it will always fall short of the essential point: the overall contribution of the different european instruments to the achievement of democracy (where the eu eoms are integrated, of course). that, i believe, is a challenge which this debate raises and which we must accept in terms of consideration. the promotion and protection of democracy are not only part of the european union's dna, but also part of its worldview, whether in the logic of principles and values or in the logic of self-interest.
in writing. − the report is based on the political strategy of big business in europe to overcome the crisis, namely to gain commercial advantages through the establishment of free trade agreements (ftas) with different regions, while maintaining the deadlock in the wto. but you're thinking of going further. in parallel with the ftas, the economic integration of the regions, in the image and likeness of the eu, and, if possible, economically and politically subordinated to it, is advocated. the significant rejection of the amendments tabled by our group shows what the aim is: liberalization without regard to means or consequences. even amendments stressing the need to take account of the asymmetries between the two regions and the objectives of job creation, sustainable economic development, food sovereignty and security and environmental protection were rejected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the effects of this policy are visible, such as the rise in energy and food prices, the increase in social and regional inequalities, poverty, hunger and disease. so we can only vote against.
in writing. − the lack of information on deep-sea fisheries, as well as data on landings, fishing effort and their implications for the stocks of each species, is a need that needs to be addressed urgently. this is all the more so since this information is essential for the preparation of scientific studies and opinions, which in turn make a decisive contribution to the establishment of appropriate fisheries management measures. we therefore consider it important that this should be one of the priorities of member states' action to improve the collection and availability of reliable data, including the analysis of the reasons for non-application, or less correct application, of the management measures in force, as referred to in the report. the possibility raised by international bodies that some of these species may be overfished reinforces this need. the objective should be to adopt a precautionary approach, seeking a balance between fishing opportunities and the stability of stocks. we therefore support the amendments tabled. we believe that the measures to be adopted should take account of the specific nature of each species, the fishing zone and the fishing gear used, particularly the more selective ones with the least impact on the seabed.
in writing. - it is well known that the professional lobbying sector - with the aim of influencing the decision-making process of the european union - is developing rapidly and steadily in brussels. at the very least, therefore, it is necessary to set out rules to ensure information about the interests that lobbyists represent, although it is still difficult to ensure transparency and to avoid unethical practices. that is why we voted in favour of the report. but we cannot but regret that the proposals put forward by our group, in particular those which advocated that interest representatives, in addition to the obligation to register, should also be obliged to disclose the expenditure on their activities, in particular by disclosing the same information on interest representation expenditure to members of the european parliament as the members are obliged to disclose in their financial statements, have not been adopted.
in writing. − the changes in our globalised world and the consequences for institutions are undoubtedly reflected in an increasing exposure to the various social actors. we therefore see more and more groups turning to this parliament or the commission with specialist information, which is admittedly important. it is therefore necessary to help ensure that these new interest groups are clearly identified and that the rules for their operation are established and enforced. in the report now voted we find a definition of 'interest representatives' together with measures to assess the implications of a common register between parliament and the commission. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy on the protection of the environment and sustainable development. i believe that these measures are important steps towards ensuring greater clarity and legitimacy in the decision-making process of european policymakers, especially after the vote avoided some amendments which would only serve to distort a correct assessment of this activity in the name of outdated ideological prejudices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the white paper on sport. lack of physical activity has negative consequences for the health of european citizens, favouring cases of overweight, obesity and many chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes. for this reason, i have advocated the importance of medical advice for women on the potential benefits of physical activity during pregnancy and after childbirth. the importance of non-discriminatory rules for sports competitions should also be stressed, by establishing equal prizes for men and women.
in writing. − the report included proposals we put forward in the parliamentary committee to recommend adequate representation of specific associations for the various categories of sports stakeholders in the decision-making bodies of international and national federations and to advocate preventive measures and health checks for young sportsmen and women, ensuring respect for the rights enshrined in the un convention on the rights of the child. the plenary adopted further proposals that we presented, including recommendations on: the need to provide 'dual-career' training, sport and academic, to young sportsmen, to ensure the reintegration of professional sportsmen into the labour market at the end of their careers; the importance of promoting sport practice, ensuring access to sport for all and equal opportunities, investing in the training of sports teachers and coaches and in more public sports facilities, and the state should take on the burden of security for non-professional competitions organised by non-profit organisations; the value of the achievements of women in sports and the fight against discrimination in prizes; the defence of career opportunities for women in areas related to the world of sport, including in decision-making positions, and calling attention to non-professional sport. but we disagree with the references to the treaty of lisbon.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 21 may 2008.
the report by mr janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2009 (2008/2022 ((bud)) (a6-0181/2008) is reproduced below.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 20 may 2008. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the report by mr jens holm, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade in raw materials and goods (2008/2051 (ini)) (a6-0134/2008) follows.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to begin by greeting the rapporteur. the difficulties in accessing raw materials today are largely the result of structural change in their respective markets, which is linked to changes in the international economy. the raw material market has traditionally evolved in a cyclical manner, going from periods of shortages to periods of shortages and reaching some points of equilibrium. today we seem to be beginning to face a new situation, namely a situation of structural shortages, which is largely the result of a sudden increase in demand resulting from the fact that several emerging countries are rapidly advancing in industrialization and urbanization processes. it is clear that there must be calls to facilitate access to raw materials, at home and, if possible, within the world trade organisation. but that must not blind us to another vital question: the commission's proposal is that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the community's objectives. this forces us, the european union, who are major importers of raw materials, to look at this issue with particular concern and forces us right away, on the one hand, to see the impact this can have worldwide, because it can lead to excessive pressure on the consumption of raw materials with very negative environmental consequences and economic and social organization in developing countries, but it must also force us, the european union, to look within ourselves and to understand our difficulties. this raises two questions that seem fundamental. one has to do with the need for us, in the long term, to promote a revision of our own model of economic development, because it is not compatible with a situation in which there is an over-exploitation of raw materials. secondly, it should also lead us to invest more in applied scientific research in order to ensure greater innovation, in order to recycle raw materials, in order to find new answers to the new problems that this situation of structural shortages is creating for us.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all say that we appreciate this report very much. this is a very professional report and i would like to thank margie sudre not only for the report but also for her presence and strong involvement in the conference of outermost regions that we held last week in brussels. i would like also to extend my gratitude to the regional development committee and also the fisheries committee, particularly its draftsman, mr guerreiro, for the contribution to the reflection on the future strategy for the outermost regions, and also to mr fernandes, mr marques and mr casaca. i would like to extend my gratitude for the contribution to the public consultation that we launched last september. this phase of consultation has just ended with the conference last week. what came out from this conference very strongly is the challenge of double integration of the outermost regions, and also the idea of the outermost regions as test beds with pilot projects, especially in areas like renewable energy. it was also very clear in the conference that outermost regions have a wealth of unique opportunities and that they represent a living force as well as a strength for the union as a whole. on the report itself, let me stress that i fully share the importance parliament attaches to the need to preserve a strategy specifically adapted to the characteristics and the assets of the outermost regions, and we are ready, in the commission, to widen the scope of the strategy to new challenges. clearly those identified by the commission – climate change, demographic change and migration management, agriculture and the maritime policy – are not exclusive and we are open to other ideas. i can also agree with mme sudre when she calls for an improvement in the coordination between the regional fund and the european development fund. i also believe it important to further integrate the outermost regions into the european research area as well as promoting cooperation with neighbouring regions. in this regard, i believe that the reformed cohesion policy has clearly helped to strengthen the position of the outermost regions under the cooperation objective. the ‘outermost region dimension’, if i may call it so, has been safeguarded and intensified following the reform of many community policies: not only the cohesion policy, but also agricultural and rural development, regional state aid frameworks, the european posei programmes or the eu maritime policy. i strongly believe that these policy developments correspond well to the needs of the outermost regions. with the september 2007 communication, we underlined the need to exploit all of the opportunities offered by the reforms of european policies during the period 2007-2013, and from my different and numerous visits to the outermost regions i can see that many initiatives have been taken in that direction, although i believe that these initiatives should be further strengthened and developed. concerning the way in which the commission conducted the economic partnership agreement negotiations as well as the emission trading scheme discussions, allow me to say that the outermost regions have been an integral part of the discussions from the very start and the commission has systematically informed and also involved the representatives of the outermost regions in the discussions. having said this, let me also assure you that the commission will continue to take account of the specific interests of the outermost regions in current, but also in future, negotiations of this nature.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. - the opinion of the committee on fisheries, the only parliamentary committee to have decided to draw up such an opinion, contains a valuable set of proposals in the interests of the outermost regions, including the consideration of the corresponding area of their exclusive economic zones as an exclusive access zone, community support for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets and the creation of a community programme to support small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing, community support for scientific research into fisheries, the protection and recovery of fishery resources and the application of socioeconomic measures to compensate fishermen for the conservation plans for resources, the strengthening and the perpetuation of community support such as posei fisheries. because we believe that these important proposals from the committee on fisheries should be reflected in the resolution to be adopted tomorrow in plenary, we are tabled a set of eight amendments, for which we ask your support.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the commissioner and the commission on this initiative, which is certainly opening up a new way of responding to the problems of the outermost regions and their populations. the opening of a public hearing led to a greater participation. i think there is already a great deal of input, as is the meeting to which the commissioner referred. big leads came out of it. but i wanted to focus on the draft opinion. it's a balanced opinion. it is an opinion where consensus has been reached. it is an opinion which points to some complementarity with the prospects which the commission has indicated when referring to climate change, etc. i would like to begin by mentioning the lisbon strategy, which i consider to be fundamental in order to be able to respond to the problems of the outermost regions in this new phase, the need to adapt all policies and programmes to this situation, and also the question of guaranteeing financing. i would also like to mention, and to conclude... it is true, the committee on fisheries has seen it in the opinion, it is in the substance. there are, however, some details which could be mentioned. the difficulty was in fact to bring together the totality of a sector, when what is wanted is a strategy for the outermost regions covering all possible areas of development.
we welcome the report, although it includes some points on which we disagree. we welcome the adoption of the proposals we have put forward in parliament's committee on regional development in favour of the outermost regions, such as the argument that the specific features of the outermost regions require a strategy based on policies and measures which are not subject to transitional criteria or to short-term changes in wealth, which are adapted to the different needs of each of these regions and help to respond to the permanent constraints to which they are subject. the importance of public services for the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the outermost regions, including air and maritime transport, the postal services, energy and communications, including access to broadband internet, and the urgent adoption of measures to help combat the persistence of unemployment, poverty and income inequalities in these regions, which are among the highest in the european union. however, we believe that certain aspects could and should be clarified and strengthened, such as the fact that community measures to support the outermost regions should be permanent and adequately financed, given the constraints which they are also subject to, or that, in order to ensure greater coherence and effectiveness of measures in favour of these regions and the achievement of their status, it is necessary not only to ensure the specific character of the outermost regions in a transversal way in the different community policies, but also to create a community programme to support these regions with the appropriate financial means and to integrate all existing measures. that is why we have tabled our amendments.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to congratulating my colleague margie sudre on her excellent report, i would like to make three comments on the future strategy of the european union for its outermost regions. a first note to congratulate the european commission for encouraging participation in the debate on the balance sheet of european policy for the outermost regions and the future strategy to be implemented. approve the online public consultation and last week's major conference on this subject organized by the european commission. a second note to mention is that a european strategy for the outermost regions is as necessary in the future as it has been up to now. there is a danger that the economic and social development achieved by the ors in the meantime will make european action less necessary. however, we must always bear in mind that the very specific reality of the outermost regions is permanent, and that this will continue to require a differentiated european response adapted to this very specific reality. a third and final point to make is that everything must be done to implement the lisbon strategy in the outermost regions, too, where its implementation is more problematic because of their very particular characteristics. i would therefore recommend to commissioner hübner that the european commission should promote the carrying out of a study aimed at identifying the difficulties of the outermost regions in implementing the lisbon strategy and concrete ways of overcoming them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the lehtinen report rightly believes that the needs of consumer protection can only be met by more appropriate and simpler legislation and that we need a more coherent legal framework for consumer rights. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to give adequate funding to strong and independent consumer organisations. and this financing is absolutely essential for the further building of a true internal consumer market. as regards the class action, it deserves my full attention and support, given the good experiences that exist in different member states. and i would also say that, as lehtinen points out, strong consumer protection will also benefit competitive producers and sellers by creating incentives for companies to produce and sell more durable goods, resulting in more sustainable growth. but the report goes further and i applaud when lehtinen describes that consumer protection should be an integral part of the design and design processes of products and services. finally, i would like to say that i share his view that effective and improved consumer protection is necessary to achieve the best functioning of the internal market. i would like to congratulate him and tell you that i think there are the best conditions for a good strategic understanding in this area with commissioner meglena kuneva.
mr president, commissioner, the data on employment trends are indeed very positive and we have to go back to the 1980s to find similar figures. however, it must be borne in mind that these encouraging figures have not benefited all european regions equally and, as regards the quality of employment itself, the news is not the best either. i know that when we talk about social policy, there is always the tendency - and it is difficult - to set priorities, and the temptation is to put everything first. experience shows that when everything is a priority, nothing is a priority. i would therefore like to encourage all of us to make an effort to ensure that the definition of clear and quantifiable roles, responsibilities and objectives can be included in these social issues, particularly in terms of employment policy. as a contribution, i feel that there is a very clear priority, which has to do with the fight against school drop-out, which today affects 15% of young people between 18 and 24 years of age. that is, more than six million young people. this scenario of early school leaving is particularly serious in view of the expected demographic evolution of europe, which in 2030 will have 18 million fewer children and young people and 52% more people over 65 years. it is unacceptable to me that this precious and small population of young people, on whom the social security systems depend, is not perfectly educated and prepared at the highest level to face successfully the new challenges of the labour market. we all know that the least educated are the most vulnerable to unemployment, to social exclusion in the context of the information society, and obviously they are candidates for social exclusion. like the rapporteur, anne van lancker, whom i also take the opportunity to congratulate, i firmly believe that the social dimension of the lisbon strategy should be strengthened, in particular by placing greater emphasis on the issue of inclusion.
member of the commission. − madam president, i find it quite appropriate that we are holding the debate during the first celebration of european maritime day. it is, after all, a member of parliament, ms kratsa-tsagaropoulou, who first suggested the idea to president barroso in the context of preparations for the green paper on a future maritime policy for the european union. it is also thanks to parliament, and, in particular, president pöttering, who will be hosting the signing of a joint tripartite declaration, establishing european maritime day, later today. this celebration demonstrates how far we have come in developing, not only the integrated maritime policy, but a new vision for europe’s oceans and seas. it also shows how involved all european institutions have been every step of the way. in fact, the parliament has been a key player in developing the new integrated maritime policy both by organising a number of conferences where fruitful discussion and searching debate has been held, and by producing reports which guide us in our work and provide specific direction for the implementation of maritime policy. let me express my grateful and heartfelt thanks and appreciation to rapporteur willi piecyk for having coordinated the keen interest of the various committees and for having produced this impressive report. let me also thank the different committee rapporteurs and the many other distinguished members of parliament who have been particularly involved, throughout the last two years, in building the parliament’s contribution to this emerging european policy. to these, i apologise for not being able to refer to them by name as i wished. allow me, if you will, to turn to the report itself. while the report does not include any new proposals, it nevertheless concentrates on certain demands made in parliament in july 2007 which assisted us in determining the way forward, and will inspire us now for the continued implementation of the maritime policy. on some of the sectoral issues, the commission welcomes the continued emphasis placed by parliament on the environmental dimension of maritime policy, and on the challenges of climate change in particular, and looks forward to the adoption of a strategy for adaptation to climate change in 2008 which will address these concerns. the commission also welcomes the recognition by the european parliament of the importance of maritime transport to the european economy and parliament’s support for a common maritime transport area, for the development of the motorways of the sea and short sea shipping: all projects which the commission is pushing forward. in terms of research, the commission welcomes parliament’s support for the development of a comprehensive marine research strategy which will be a cornerstone of maritime policy, and should be ready for adoption by mid-2008. the commission welcomes the positive attitude of the report towards the need to ensure sustainability in the field of fisheries. we have taken a number of steps in this direction since the adoption of the ‘blue paper’ such as the adoption of a communication on the ecosystem approach in april 2008, and two proposals on discards, which will be ready by the end of this year. in addition to specific mention of issues including the environment, maritime transport, research and innovation, social aspects, fisheries and energy, the commission welcomes the particular importance attributed to the regional aspect of maritime policy through the exceptional maritime dimension conferred on the eu by its vast coastline, its islands and its outermost regions, and fully concurs with the view that maritime policy should take into account the various specific features of the member states and maritime regions, including coastal regions, islands and outermost regions. honourable members, we are still in the early stages of the implementation of maritime policy, but with the continued assistance of parliament, we will strive for increased measures in that implementation. in conclusion, may i once again congratulate the european parliament and the concerned rapporteurs for their excellent work. we look forward to continuing our close dialogue with you in the months ahead in the interest of implementing the integrated maritime policy for the union, and also count on your support to engage, in particular, the european maritime regions during maritime day 2009.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a number of amendments. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we congratulate the european commission on its communication on an integrated maritime policy for the european union and on the proposal for an action plan setting out the first steps towards its implementation. it is true that there have been setbacks from the green paper to the current blue book, particularly with regard to planning of the use of the sea, coastal protection, the european flag, the european representative to the international maritime organisation, but it is also unquestionable that there have been progress, particularly in the social dimension, investment, innovation and maritime clusters and maritime transport. but the balance is, on the whole, quite positive. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we must now put into practice an effective integrated maritime policy which ensures coordination between the various sectoral policies, which unlocks the expected synergies and which creates real added value. only in this way will it be an important instrument for meeting the challenges of sustainable development, competitiveness and european economic and social cohesion. above all, the committee on regional development hopes that the integrated maritime policy will have a very positive impact on the development and protection of the coastal regions, islands and outermost regions of the european union.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. - in this very brief speech, i would like to highlight the inclusion of proposals put forward by the committee on fisheries, which stress that the main objective of a maritime fisheries policy should be to promote the modernisation and sustainable development of this sector, ensuring its socioeconomic viability and the sustainability of resources and guaranteeing sovereignty and food security, the public supply of fish, the maintenance of jobs and the improvement of the living conditions of fishermen; that the creation of more and better jobs linked to the sea, particularly in the fisheries sector, depends on the guarantee of a fair and adequate income for its professionals; the need for compensation mechanisms for fishermen affected by resource recovery measures, the reinforcement of support for scientific research in the various member states, particularly in the framework of the seventh framework programme, or the existence of appropriate community support for the rescue and assistance of vessels.
in this concise speech, we only stress that any initiative in maritime policy must respect the sovereignty of the member states over their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones. i would point out that article 5 of the constitution of the portuguese republic states that the state shall not alienate any part of portuguese territory or the rights of sovereignty it exercises over it, including over the contiguous seabed; that improvement of the working conditions of seafarers is a requirement, guaranteeing employment, respect for the principle of equal work, equal pay, reduction of working time and non-application of multi-purpose, that any further attempt to liberalise port services at european union level, in particular intra-community maritime traffic, should be rejected; that the said sound financial basis for maritime policy should not be made at the expense of the european fisheries fund and the common fisheries policy, based on the principle that new priorities should be matched by new financial means.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr piecyk, these days anyone who passes in front of the berlaymont building will find a huge sign on which the following words can be read, in connection with today's sea day and european maritime policy: an ocean of opportunities. the european commission is quite right, and i too believe that the investment we have decided to make in the sea can be an excellent opportunity to exploit this enormous resource in a responsible and competitive way. it turns out that the world is, unfortunately, full of missed opportunities, of good ideas that go down the drain. this cannot be the destiny of european maritime policy. we cannot, or rather we must not, lack the will or the capacity to achieve this, as our colleague mr jarzembowski has already pointed out. the energy with which we believed in the potential of this initiative cannot be spent on short-term achievements or on the mere proclamation of generous ideas which, in the end, indicated less ambition than we would have wished. investing decisively in blue technologies, stimulating a network of maritime clusters where best practices and the most advanced technologies are developed, making the most of the sea in the fight against climate change and its use as a source of renewable energy, promoting maritime transport and coastal tourism, recognising the importance of maritime regions, particularly the outermost regions, in security and defence against illegal immigration, trafficking, smuggling and terrorist threats and, of course, ensuring an integrated strategic vision and sustainable funding of these policies, are ways we must follow if we want to succeed. for this reason, i address the commission directly in this debate, and ourselves as well, to say that the ambition revealed cannot be less than the ambition to build another european centre based on an integrated maritime policy. this water, commissioner, will not flow under this bridge again. will the european commission and this parliament be able to meet their own challenge? that's the question i'm leaving.
i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner and the commission on the proposal and the methodology they have adopted, and my colleague willi piecyk on the excellent work and openness he has shown in preparing this excellent report. i come from an old maritime nation, portugal, and an island and outermost region, madeira, and i support this report with great enthusiasm because it ensures, among other fundamental aspects, that the ors are properly recognised in the effective implementation of maritime policy because of their position and their vast knowledge, including in innovation, research, the environment, etc. secondly, by better management and sustainable exploitation of marine resources and adequate combating of climate change, enhancing coastal areas, supporting environmentally friendly maritime transport and an effective port policy, supporting marine research, promoting social rights in accordance with pre-agreed international requirements, lifelong learning and also supporting tourism, which is one of the key activities in this maritime policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the green paper of 2006, the action plan now under consideration in this excellent report by mr piecyk contains a number of measures to be taken in the context of an integrated european policy for the seas. we must therefore take a comprehensive view not only of the seas as such, but also of the close relationship with coastal areas and everything related to them: employment, environmental issues, regional development, economic development, the focus on marine research and excellence, and a whole series of sectoral policies which, if tackled together, will allow for greater coherence and success in the policies put into practice, and this will result in greater social, economic and environmental sustainability, which is absolutely crucial. this is why this report notes the need for research and innovation to be the driving force behind greater regional development potential which will support all the activities to which maritime policy relates and which it affects, directly or indirectly. the alternative mobility of the seas and the wave energy challenge are also promising on the ground and will certainly bring much hope for economic solutions in the future, which are of course sustainable and deserve support.
madam president, i too would like to add my words to those of the members who have just congratulated our rapporteur, willi piecyk, and who have praised the work already done by the european commission. four years on from what was perhaps one of the main political promises made by the present commission, it is fair to note that very significant steps are being taken and the commission is therefore to be congratulated. i would like to stress, however, the point of the ecosystem approach to maritime policy. i think that this approximation is vital and when i see in the commission's last communication some reluctance to apply it fully because of the problems this raises in various european seas, i would like to stress that we must look at the outermost regions for their own specificity. there is no problem with a fully integrated approach and i would challenge the commission to do so as soon as possible.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the use of fossil fuels. this proposal, which establishes the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, is the result of the work of the european technology platform on fuel cells and hydrogen and aims to contribute to the implementation of the environmental technologies action plan. these are very quiet and highly efficient energy conversion units which could allow for a substantial cumulative reduction of greenhouse gas and other pollutant emissions, as they can run on hydrogen or other fuels such as natural gas, ethanol or methanol. the introduction of hydrogen as a highly flexible energy carrier could contribute positively to energy security and to the stabilisation of energy prices, since hydrogen can be produced from any primary energy source, thus introducing a certain diversity in the transport sector, which is currently dependent on oil. although significant eu public funds have already been channelled into fuel cell and hydrogen research, it is unlikely that these technologies will be commercialized as quickly as would be desirable.
in writing. - the community tobacco fund is intended exclusively to promote information campaigns on the harmful effects of smoking. the proposal submitted by the european commission provides for an amount equal to 5% of the tobacco aid granted for the calendar years 2008 and 2009 to be transferred to this fund. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it is known that, unfortunately, the european commission has been moving forward with the dismantling of production aid, which has contributed to the decline in its production in portugal, although it continues to be imported from the countries that produce it. the commission continues to link this fund to the support scheme for producers of tobacco by-products, arguing that this is the only source of financing envisaged. in accordance with this logic and on the assumption that information campaigns will continue to be useful, the amendments seem to be correct. it also seems appropriate to support the recent request formally submitted to the commission by almost all producer member states for the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation to extend the current tobacco support scheme until 2013, to be addressed in the context of the ongoing discussions on the cap health balance.
in writing. - the current situation shows that, ten years after the first guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, there is less and less employment with rights, which in itself shows that this strategy is not aimed at promoting employment with rights. on the other hand, its constant change, accompanied by the increasingly neoliberal economic orientations of the european union, has contributed to greater precariousness of employment. the rapporteur includes some mitigating measures relating to poverty or social inclusion, but in reality she does not mention the need to break with the current, totally neoliberal macroeconomic and employment policies, where the primacy of competition and flexibility prevail, so that these proposals are merely a smokescreen, not addressing the problems at their source. some other proposals even go so far as to promote flexicurity, or rather deregulation of the labour market, advocating flexible and reliable contractual arrangements based on modern labour law, collective agreements and the organisation of work, and stating that member states should implement their own action plans, based on the common principles of flexicurity adopted by the council. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − the budgetary procedure has now started with the presentation by the european commission of the proposal for the community budget for 2009. in previous budgetary processes, the budget for the european parliament has absorbed about 20% of the amount entered under heading 5 - administrative expenditure - of the multiannual financial framework. the rapporteur proposes to maintain similar levels for the 2009 budget. such a decision should not make it impossible or impede the provision of financial resources to respond adequately to the identified needs for reinforced staff and for the improvement of interpretation and translation services, while respecting equality and the right to use all official languages in the european parliament and in the activities promoted by it. this has been a recurring problem, as the need to improve services such as interpretation and translation is often pointed out, but the necessary financial resources are not allocated to them, often resorting to rules that have been precisely created to hinder the use of different languages. the criteria adopted in the joint acp-eu parliamentary assemblies are as follows: the report also makes no mention of guaranteeing workers' rights, particularly when the ep has in recent years increasingly resorted to outsourcing services.
in writing. - in this report we look beyond the traditional trade in raw materials and commodities. in the new international context, various factors and components of production can be considered as raw materials, including energy. the price escalation of these products is serious for european industry, which buys them across borders. markets respond to increased demand from more producers, while facing natural and environmental constraints and reacting to financial speculation. it is worrying that this international situation has favoured a price level which is likely to undermine economic growth in europe. if this trend holds, the race for resources will generate a pressure and a shortage that promises to challenge many generations of managers and will surely have implications for the governance of the modern world. the european parliament calls on the commission to raise the issue of access to raw materials markets in the wto. the aim is reciprocity, and this organization is a suitable way. the negotiations on these products should never come down to the regional level, in order to promote integration, development and sustainability. the prevention of large-scale speculation and conflict requires that we be able to get our trading partners who hold these resources to pay fairly for their goods.
in writing. - we do not share the view on trade in raw materials contained in the report. we do not agree with the criticism of third countries for setting up policies and measures introduced 'to create obstacles to free and fair access to raw materials ... which prevent eu (!) companies from accessing raw materials and goods'. the sovereign right of each country to decide on the use of its raw materials or the trade in its goods is inalienable. it is up to the people of each country to decide how to use their resources and the wealth they create. what the report does not say is that the real problem lies in the neoliberal model of the eu. imbued with neo-colonialist ambitions, it seeks to reduce many countries to the status of raw material producers for eu countries, using technology and domination and control of market mechanisms - including financial speculation - to promote economic dependence and exploitation by transnational corporations. what is needed is a radical break with the prevailing economic and social model, eliminating the dominator/dominated or exploiter/exploited relationships, defending national sovereignty, developing the economic potential of each country and the complementarity of its external relations, producing to meet the needs of the people, preserving the planet.
in writing. - there are news which, although good at their origin, do not cease to worry us about their consequences. that is partly what is happening with the rise in the price of raw materials. the good news is that, as various indices show, a growing share of the world's population is accessing levels of consumption that were previously unknown to them. the problem, however, is that some of the consequences, especially the immediate ones, of this growth in consumption - and therefore in demand - may be determining. the laws of economics, even in distorted markets, work, and an increase in demand is matched by an increase in supply, or, as has been the case, by an increase in price. as it has been. the european union must promote a general opening up of markets, to enable more and more producers to benefit from increased demand, and it must encourage increased trade, while at the same time we have a duty to support directly those who are suffering immediately from these new circumstances: those who have no way of coping with an increase in the prices of essential goods. market distortion rarely produces positive effects, especially in the long term. but nothing prevents us, on the contrary, from financing those who have less.
, in writing. the resolution proposed in this report contains recommendations on the balance sheet and future prospects of the strategy for the outermost regions, among which i highlight: the use of indicators other than gdp to measure the level of cohesion achieved; better coordination of cohesion policy and other community policies across the board to increase synergies and better adapt current and future european policies to the realities of the outermost regions; policies and measures in their favour which are not transitional, adapted to their different needs and respond to their permanent constraints; community support for their agriculture and provision of support measures for their respective fisheries sectors; differentiated treatment in the field of transport, including civil aviation in the ets debate; inclusion of the future strategy for the outermost regions in the lisbon strategy; placing the future of the union's policy on the outermost regions in the centre of attention; the need to ensure that the implementation of the eu's policy on the outermost regions is conditional on the implementation of the eu's immigration strategy; the special attention paid to the implementation of the eu's policy on the outermost regions and the need to ensure that the outermost regions are compensated for their specific needs. it deserves my support and that of my political group. i have called for its approval and have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. some argue that this is a resolution on regional policy and not on fisheries. a sheer fallacy. the resolution is the ep's contribution to the future of eu policies for the outermost regions, so it is here that the proposals adopted, in particular those adopted by the ep's committee on fisheries - as was the case with the ep resolution on maritime policy - should be explained. that is why we insist on presenting them again, and in line with the positions we have taken in portugal. we also regret the rejection of our proposal which clearly stated that community measures to support the outermost regions should be permanent. the rapporteur justifies that the aim is that one day these measures will no longer be necessary. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the erdf with a loan of ecu 1 billion for the construction of a new railway line in the south of the country.
in writing. − the ors have specific features which have been taken into account in european measures to support european development and growth. however, there is still a lot to be done to develop it further and to make even more use of this frontier with other world economic blocs. the transversal and complementary measures for the outermost regions have contributed to an improvement in the economic and social situation of these regions and it remains important to work on reducing the accessibility gap, improving competitiveness and regional integration. however, there are still difficulties on the ground which are not being taken into account. we can think of the question of preserving traditional agriculture, of increasing support for the development of structural sectors or of maintaining differentiated tax systems. the development of the specific strengths of the outermost regions is thus the strategy to ensure the sustainable development of the outermost regions in areas of attraction and cooperation. the introduction of climate change, demographic change and the management of migration flows, agriculture and maritime policy as new priorities is a good measure, to be complemented by the necessary diversification of the outermost regions' economies, with their specific characteristics and the widest possible application of the rules in force, using the most appropriate instruments to solve the specific problems of the outermost regions.
in writing. - a genuine consumer protection policy must be based on a number of principles. firstly, there must be a fair policy for sharing and redistributing income, based on living wages, adequate remuneration for producers, particularly micro and small farmers, industrialists and traders, which encourages local food markets and promotes food security and food sovereignty. secondly, there must be an effective policy to combat speculative commercial and financial activities, consumer information and transparency. the report does not deal with these matters. on the contrary, it defends positions which give more attention to defending the interests of economic and financial groups and the liberalisation of services than to consumers in general, although it occasionally makes some positive proposals, but only in a framework of complete neoliberalism, where consumers are the weakest link in the whole process. for example, the report stresses that greater liberalisation of the services market is necessary, in particular to promote competition and thus to offer better prices to consumers, which we know is contradictory and only serves the interests of companies. that is why we could not vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the liz lynne report on progress on equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the eu, given the need to urge the european commission to strictly monitor the transposition of directives 2000/43/ec and 2000/78/ec on equal treatment between persons and the application of national legislation deriving from them. i would stress that women are particularly vulnerable to discrimination at work, especially in relation to their choice of maternity. the right to non-discrimination in any form is a fundamental and basic principle of the european union which, if it is not enforced by effective legal mechanisms, will lose its meaning.
in writing. − the report contains positive aspects, including the insistence on the commission and the member states to end all discrimination on the basis of employment contracts, guaranteeing all workers equal treatment, protection of their health and safety and provisions on working and rest periods, freedom of association and representation, protection against unfair dismissal, collective bargaining and collective actions. it also stresses the importance of access to training and the continuing protection of acquired rights through the coverage of education and training periods, the improvement of access to care and the maintenance of basic social rights such as pension rights, the right to training and the right to unemployment benefit during periods of change in professional situation, between two employment contracts or in the transition from employment to self-employment. the epp therefore tried to amend the report in several respects, notably in the content of the demand for an anti-discrimination directive, but failed to do so and voted against. we rejected the ppe's proposals and supported the rapporteur, although we disagreed with some of the points in the report.
in writing. − the active and committed advocacy of non-discrimination does not mean and should not be confused with the relativisation where everything is equal, everything is equivalent and all choices, options, or circumstances have equal value in the legal order. the promotion of policies that defend larger families, for example, does not in any way infringe the principle of non-discrimination. the same is true of the refusal to give legal framework to all possible forms of human relations, which can be equated with any kind of discrimination. what i defend, what i consider it my duty to defend in the field of non-discrimination is, above all, the defence of a broad concept of individual freedom, and not a collectivist and statist view of freedoms, where only what is promoted by the state is considered non-discriminatory. society can and does have preferences, expressed in public policy. what it cannot and should not do is impose or prevent behaviour which does not conflict with the freedom of others.
in writing. − we believe that a maritime policy based on cooperation between member states (ms), which would add value and boost the sea-related policies and measures defined by each country, could have a positive impact. however, although more backward than in the previous report, the ep reaffirms objectives for an integrated maritime policy with which we cannot agree. it is also imbued with a federalist and geo-strategic vision of the use of each member state's eez; it advocates the rapid integration of intra-community maritime transport into the internal market, i.e. its liberalisation; insists on the initiatives aimed at creating a european coast guard, an area of competence for each member state; advocates the incorporation of shipping into emissions trading, another business; and, paradoxically (or not...) advocates that maritime policy be properly taken into account from 2013 onwards in the community budget (???), i.e. advocates the political/economic domain centralized in the eu, once again, without giving anything in return (even if this was ever acceptable)... the ep resolution certainly contains proposals with which we agree - some of which we have drawn up - but these do not erase the negative content of the resolution. that's why i'm voting against it.
madam president, i welcome and support the ria report in general, particularly where concerns are expressed about the implications of the closure of the ak party. on the other hand, the settlement of the cyprus question now has a fabulous opportunity which must be seized. it is also essential, as it says, that the turkish government pursue reforms while respecting pluralism and diversity in a democratic and secular turkey, and that all citizens are able to develop their cultural identity within the turkish democratic state. of course, progress is also needed in other areas, such as the defence of trade union rights and further progress towards effective gender equality, but the ria report recognises that a number of steps needed for the modernisation of turkish society have already been taken. madam president, turkey's march towards full integration must continue on the terms agreed by the european council and voted on in this parliament. no more, no less than that.
in writing. − it is positive that the closure of mercury mines in the community poses environmental and social problems and that projects and other initiatives should continue to be supported on the basis of available funding instruments in order to enable the affected areas to find viable solutions for the environment, employment and local economic activities. it was also agreed that the applicant for the licence will take the necessary measures, by means of financial or equivalent security, to ensure that the obligations arising from the licence (including post-closure maintenance operations) will be fulfilled and that the closure operations will be carried out. it was also agreed that industrial sectors obtaining mercury from natural gas cleaning or as a by-product of non-ferrous metal extraction and smelting operations should submit the relevant data to the commission and the competent authorities of the member states concerned. the commission should make this information publicly available. we also believe that it is right to encourage the provision of technical assistance to developing countries and countries with economies in transition, including assistance aimed at facilitating the transition to alternative mercury-free technologies and the phasing out of the uses and emissions of mercury and mercury compounds.
in writing. - it is important that the rapporteur has acknowledged that, according to the judgment of the court of justice of 23 october 2007 (c-440/05), criminal legislation and rules of criminal procedure are not a matter for the community and cannot determine the type and degree of criminal sanctions to be applied. amendments were therefore made to the proposal for a directive which the european commission had submitted and which was not acceptable. it is also important that the commission and the council have accepted these amendments. but there is still an insistence that the community legislature should be able to impose on the member states the obligation to impose penalties to ensure that the rules it adopts on environmental protection are fully effective. as the role of the member states in the whole process was not very clear, we opted to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation is justified by the commission's new political approach to simplifying legislation and better regulation. i agree with the commission's proposal, which succeeds in simplifying procedures by reducing the number of internal inspections, while maintaining the necessary level of rigour of the previous provisions on the collection of structural statistics relating to crop and livestock production, agricultural labour and equipment used. on the other hand, and for the sake of simplification, the proposal merely introduces a new type of inspection and does not lead to any obligation on the part of the member states to change their administrative systems.
in writing. - regardless of criticism of the aspects of the partnership included in this proposal for a regulation, its content should not be analysed without taking into account its 'role' in the context of the further liberalisation of international road haulage and passenger transport promoted by the european commission and the institutions of the european union with a power of co-decision, the european parliament and the council. the central idea is emphasised by the european commission itself in its proposal: 'the directive 96/26/ec on access to the occupation of road haulage operator and the four regulations on access to the transport market, together with the deregulation of international road transport prices a few years earlier, have shaped the internal road transport market'. in other words, 'common requirements for access to the profession' were established, while 'the market opening established by the regulations encouraged greater competition'. as we have pointed out with regard to the proposal for a regulation laying down common rules for access to the international road haulage market, the present proposal aims to further liberalize international road transport by seeking to promote greater competition between the different operators in a sector where it already exists, with numerous and heavy costs for its workers.
in writing. - the report by mrs ţicău is part of a package of measures, together with two other reports, to regulate road transport activity. this activity is of the utmost importance in the european economic area, making possible the open and competitive market of which we are proud today. the new proposal would require companies to hire a certified transport manager who would be responsible for managing the transport company's traffic, while maintaining the conditions already established for access to the profession - suitability, financial capacity and professional capacity. the aim of this recast is to ensure that the existing legislation is made more intelligible and more demanding in terms of safety and effectiveness for the practice of this activity. i therefore welcome the work done by the rapporteur in the area of safety accountability and guarantees of seriousness in this economic activity, and also the measures relating to professional competence, which involve rigorous training and the mutual recognition of diplomas and licences.
in writing. - this is a further step (and a new instrument) towards further liberalizing international road haulage by promoting greater competition between the different operators in a sector where competition is already rife, with numerous and heavy costs for its workers. among other things, the aim is now to find a way of facilitating the inclusion of cabotage operations by road - that is, the carrying out of up to three consecutive international transport operations, provided they are carried out within seven days - in the market, which is already liberalized, which will have profound consequences for the financial balance and the survival of operators at national level. such a decision will also have negative consequences for road haulage workers. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. and, if we take into account the recent decisions of the european court of justice, even the reference to directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers will not defend the labour rights of many workers in this sector.
in writing. - this proposal forms part of a package of measures in the field of road transport. the proposal adds coherence to community legislation on the international carriage of goods by road by merging two existing regulations, with the aim of ensuring greater effectiveness in the application of the rules and clarifying and facilitating the application of the concept of cabotage. it also implements measures to simplify and standardise the community driving licence and driver's licence, thus reducing administrative costs and delays, in particular in the case of checks along the way. member states will also be able to strengthen their reporting systems, which will make it easier to learn about infringements committed by a road transport undertaking in the member state in which it is established. i believe that this text is of the utmost importance for the development of this activity on the european market, giving it the necessary speed and the requirements and structure appropriate to an open, regulated and fair market.
in writing. - there are positive aspects in this report which we value, in particular the proposals on the importance of mobile satellite services covering areas outside the main urban centres of the member states and providing the best possible services in order to bridge the digital divide, or on the advocacy that the initial service coverage area of the proposed mobile satellite services be fixed at a sufficient level by increasing the coverage capacity of such systems. but we must not forget the context in which these proposals appear - liberalisation and the advancement of the internal telecommunications market. we cannot therefore vote in favour of this report. we also disagree with the member states' willingness to waive their national rights to allocate spectrum because of the fact that mobile satellite services have a large beam area, which makes it difficult to avoid interference beyond national borders, although the commission's decision of february 2007 recognises that member states should retain the right to allow the operation of additional terrestrial components on their territories.
in writing. - in general, the report aims to simplify and reduce community legislation, arguing that it is particularly beneficial for smes. it is true that there may be some positive aspects to this simplification. and we generally support the simplification of measures in the area of company law, provided that it is the abolition of bureaucracy. however, we cannot vote in favour of a report which calls for simplification on the one hand, but also for the creation of new legal frameworks at community level. among the doubts and negative aspects which have prompted our abstention are the following proposals contained in the report: to legislate on possible coordination between the tax administrations of the member states to harmonise the information requested from companies, to revise the statute of the european company in order to ensure a more uniform community legal form, to create a new legal framework for companies, to create a common consolidated corporate tax base on the grounds that it would make the statute of the european company more useful and effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the britta thomsen report on women and science because i believe that it is necessary to facilitate access for both genders to scientific careers under equal conditions. factors such as stereotypes associated with the exact sciences, or the obstacles raised by the difficulty of reconciling personal and family life with professional life, bring numerous disadvantages and difficulties for women scientists and researchers, putting many women out of scientific research. the disparities between women and men in terms of presence in academic and scientific leadership positions, salaries earned, or the demands of personal life make it essential to take measures that counteract gender stereotypes in science, encourage women to pursue scientific careers and close the inequalities therein.
in writing. - we know that there are more women than men in higher education, but when it comes to choosing a career in research, the number of women is still outnumbered by that of men. the increase in the number of women in higher education has not led to an equivalent change in the ratio of women to men in certain academic or professional fields, nor has it eliminated the gender pay gap. as the rapporteur points out, women researchers are still in the minority in the public and higher education sectors, and in the european union both sectors have an average of 35% of women. in all countries, these two sectors have a higher percentage of women researchers than the private sector, where the community average is no more than 18%. it should be noted that there are great variations between countries. the lowest numbers of women in private sector research are in germany (11.8%), austria (10.4%) and the netherlands (8.7%), in contrast to countries such as latvia, bulgaria and romania, where the percentage is above 40%. the patterns of distribution of male and female researchers by major scientific fields are also very different. among male researchers in higher education, 54% work in the field of natural sciences and engineering, compared with only 37% of female researchers.
in writing. - ship dismantling continues to have a significant social and ecological impact, both because of the way it is done, which can harm the environment, and because the number of ships under construction has been increasing over the years. hence the importance of continuous innovation and development in the shipbuilding sector in the member states in order to improve shipbuilding and make it less harmful from an environmental point of view. since 2005, imo has been working with the ilo and the united nations environment programme to develop binding international standards for the environmentally sound dismantling of ships. negotiations are currently under way on a draft convention which will have to be adopted by 2009 but will not enter into force until a few years later. under the current draft, the convention will not apply to warships or other state vessels. consensus has not yet been reached on standards that do not fall within the scope of the imo, on the basic standards for ship recycling facilities, on notification requirements (in particular state-to-state notification) and on the type of mechanism to monitor the application of the convention.
in writing. - european concerns about the environment and working conditions in third countries deserve our agreement in principle. the export of conditions of misery, whether environmental, labour or otherwise, can never be part of our vision of trade and world trade. it is important, however, not to defend such an absolute and contemporary view of our reality on certain values that it ignores the whole by focusing on one part only. the adoption of drastic measures which end practices which are in fact social or environmental dumping, but which also involve the destruction of an economic sector in a third country and which thus plunge a deeply vulnerable part of the population into even greater misery, is not in line with what we are advocating. gradual reforms, setting standards as development is promoted is a more efficient and desirable way. we do not prevent misery and human degradation by merely offering as an alternative misery and human degradation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the interim report of the temporary committee on climate change on the scientific evidence on climate change (conclusions and recommendations for decision-making), as i am convinced that the broad consensus within the scientific community on the role of anthropogenic causes in climate change reflects the urgent need for increased action by the political powers, with particular attention to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and a future international climate agreement. the deepening and dissemination of scientific understanding of climate change will enable people to become more aware of the phenomenon, so as to change their lifestyles, and will make decision-making processes more responsible, informed and effective. stimulating research on the economic and social impacts of climate change should be a priority.
in writing. - this is another report which, although it starts from some correct findings on the current situation, does little or nothing to help find the solutions that are needed, is not clear in the measures it advocates, and limits itself to listing vague proposals and justifications, which seems more likely to facilitate the launching of new companies that want to obtain more and more profits from new activities in the areas of the environment and energy, at the expense of climate change. i therefore feel that it would be good to have comparable effort and persistence, and equal concern, for other global problems which are either ignored or merely kept on the list of chronic concerns - elimination of curable diseases, protection of soils and habitats, depletion of finite resources, especially hydrocarbons... the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is properly implemented, and calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the environmental policy is properly implemented. we shall await that report in the future.
in writing. − the scientific facts focused on in this report have been discussed in depth with world experts during the meetings of the interim committee on climate change and cannot therefore be lightly questioned. like the florenz report, i welcome the ipcc 4th report as the most comprehensive study on climate change and agree that it is absolutely necessary to avoid a rise in global temperature of more than 2oc in order to avoid the most catastrophic scenarios, suggesting that the ambitious european targets for reducing ghg emissions should be maintained. as a compendium of the most credible information available today, and cutting through the recurring ideas of a few isolated extremists who continue to question human action as the main cause of global warming, the florenz report is a clear sign that the european parliament will maintain its position of rigour and ambition in the fight against climate change, and i therefore support it.
in writing. - scientific discussions should not be the subject of debates of conviction. and doubting the truth of the majority opinion cannot be interpreted as denial or as a political option. on the other hand, recent episodes such as the debate on the unintended and unforeseen implications of encouraging increased biofuel production show how permanent doubt is the only scientific certainty that we should embrace without hesitation. on the contrary, in the field of the debate on choices in the face of scientific facts, we are clearly in the realm of political choices. if i do not consider myself scientifically competent to give an opinion on the first question, i consider it my duty to do so on the second. what i have been advocating, and insisting on, is that in the face of the foreseeable increase in consumption (in particular energy) by huge masses of the population, due to the positive effects of globalisation, we must look for scientific answers, technological solutions. some changes in the field of behaviour, both individual and collective, are certainly welcome. but it is in science that we will find the essence of the solutions we need.
in writing. - despite the contradictions, it is a fact that turkey is of strategic importance for the eu's ambitions, particularly in the current context of the deepening crisis of the capitalist system. while its final status is not defined - full membership of the eu or of a future mediterranean union - what seems certain is that the eu is seeking to find the solutions that best serve the interests of the major economic and financial groups of the great powers, with particular emphasis on germany. turkey represents a huge market that arouses various appetites. it is a vast country with a huge amount of cheap labour and consumers, who are not even allowed to celebrate may day, as was recently seen in the brutal crackdown by turkish security forces on trade unionists and protesters. it is a vast territory occupying an important geostrategic position between europe, asia and the middle east, playing a central role in the dispute over the control and access to central asian energy resources (as exemplified by the nabucco project) and playing a pivotal role in the us/nato/eu partnership. turkey, a country whose authorities are militarily and illegally occupying part of the territory of an eu member state, cyprus.
in writing. - the progress made in various sectors of society, the economy and politics in recent years is a reminder of how the will to join the european union successfully promotes reforms of the greatest importance in the countries where this possibility exists. this being the case for turkey, and keeping the negotiations open, it is worth stressing the importance of taking advantage of this opportunity to promote the most far-reaching and necessary reforms in turkey, whatever the outcome of the negotiations. the recognition of the report - and the statements of senior eu officials, including the president of the commission - are accompanied by concern about the legal proceedings against the akp. although it is preferable that there should have been no military intervention, it is regrettable that there should have been an attempt to obtain by judicial means what the ballot boxes had denied. on the other hand, the persistent doubt about the real intentions of the akp is also of concern. the defence of religious freedom as we understand it in the european union deserves our agreement. the widespread imposition of a religious view on the whole of society would be unacceptable.
more than 63,000 dead and missing and two and a half million homeless today is the result of the cyclone combined with the cruelty of the junta that misrules and oppresses burma and has prevented international aid to the needy. what a contrast to the openness and readiness in china to aid the survivors of sichuan! the un security council cannot refrain from applying the responsibility to protect to burma, by immediately authorizing access to the country by international humanitarian agencies and ngos to help the abandoned population of the irrawaddy delta, and it cannot refrain from referring the burmese military junta to the international criminal court for prosecution for crimes against humanity. this parliament expects european governments to activate the un security council immediately. it is time for all members of the council, including china, which has been backing the burmese dictatorship, to assume their responsibilities to the sacrificed people of burma.
madam president, commissioner, we all regret the catastrophe that has devastated southern china. over 50,000 people died and 4.8 million were left homeless. we all stand in solidarity with the families affected. the european union did the right thing: it activated the civil protection mechanism and supported the chinese authorities. the international community in general has also given its support. never before has china received so many expressions of solidarity and material support, because this time the chinese authorities did not try to hide the scale of the tragedy. on the contrary, they have provided the necessary information, they have allowed access to the international media, in short, they have acted with transparency and efficiency, unlike what happened to the old burma. climate change is causing an increase in natural disasters. preventing global warming is everyone's responsibility. it is therefore necessary that china also contributes to reducing co2 emissions by supporting the european union's efforts to reach an international agreement by the copenhagen conference in december 2009.
in a recent letter to the london times, nine former british military commanders appealed to the uk government to join those who advocate a ban on cluster bombs. the argument is the same as that which was invoked in the context of anti-personnel mines: however useful a weapon may be in the short term, in a military logic, the fact that it causes indiscriminate long-term effects is sufficient to justify the suspension of its use by responsible armed forces. the same logic applies to depleted uranium munitions. the european organisation of military associations, euromil, is following this matter closely and its position, based on the information it receives from military personnel across europe, is categorical: the depleted uranium munitions must be abandoned as soon as possible. the european parliament has already spoken in favour of a total ban on these weapons and the un general assembly resolution adopted last december, which puts the issue of weapons and munitions containing depleted uranium on the agenda of the 33rd plenary session of the general assembly, has confirmed that the european parliament is right to take a leading position and to ask the council to take a leading position in this further debate on disarmament and humanitarian law. the arguments "against" of the skeptics among us do not work. the most elementary precautionary principle requires the stigmatization of these weapons before even the many circumstantial evidence pointing in the direction of their indiscriminate carcinogenic effect is replaced by irrefutable scientific evidence. what will policy makers say about us a decade from now, when the harmful effects of these weapons are clear and unquestionable, and even today's skeptics, if we have not done anything to remove them from circulation in the meantime? they 'll say the same thing they say now about land mines: how could they wait so long!
the question period is now over (b6-0156/2008). the following questions were put to the council.
question no 2 by avril doyle (h-0270/08) subject: ratification of the treaty of lisbon could the slovenian presidency state at what stage the ratification process of the lisbon treaty is currently? what steps has the council taken to date to ensure that the ratification process is successfully completed?
i regret that i cannot give the floor to any other speakers, since the rules do not allow it. i think it is common knowledge that we are considering changing this question time to make it more flexible and also more profitable. i myself am cooperating with the working party and i am sure that in a short time we will have some positive news. for the time being, the rules are these and i cannot give the floor to mr higgins, although he asked for it, because he was the third to do so.
question no 3 by mr burke (h-0272/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: negotiations with the yugoslav republic of macedonia can the council state what the state of play is in the negotiations with the federal republic of yugoslavia? in which areas does the council consider that more progress has been made? what are the most controversial areas for the development of the debates at present?
since the author is not present, question 4 is closed.
question no 6 by jim higgins (h-0278/08) subject: effective protection of the external borders of the european union can the council state what progress has been made under the current presidency towards more effective protection of the union's external borders and whether the problem of drug trafficking in coastal areas has been discussed at council level?
question no 7 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0281/08) subject: fight against poverty and social exclusion how does the council see the development of the guarantee of minimum survival conditions and full productive work for european citizens and residents of the eu in order to combat poverty, in particular child poverty?
we say yes to the alternative energy targets, but it is obvious that the food problem and the hunger that seems to be growing makes many people wonder whether biofuels are the right move. the question i ask, and while agreeing that we must make progress in alternative energy, is whether you are in a position to assure and say publicly, to assure citizens that this way is not detrimental to the cost of food products and to increasing world hunger.
question no 8 by mr robert evans (h-0283/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: human rights in cuba in february 2008, the cuban government signed two legal covenants of the universal declaration of human rights at the united nations headquarters in new york. these legally binding pacts oblige cuba to respect the right of individuals to freedom of expression and association and the right to travel. in view of this positive action by cuba and the recent constructive visit to cuba by commissioner louis michel in march, what steps is the council taking to normalize relations with the cuban government? what pressure does the council intend to exert on cuba to comply with its international commitments?
your observation is noted. in today's case, we started at 6 p.m. so the session didn't start later. the council has asked for the floor and will intervene.
i can inform you, mr president, that this is a decision of the conference of presidents. it's not a question of whether i agree with it or not. i wish we had more time, but we must respect the decision of the conference of presidents. in any case, your amendment is adopted and will be transmitted to the conference of presidents.
the central issue in this debate is the priority to be given to the defence and promotion of existing industries in the various member states, taking into account their specificities, whether they are industries in the textile, clothing and footwear sectors, the automotive industry, the shipbuilding industry, the chemical industry or any other traditional sector or new materials and innovative techniques. this priority requires not only measures to boost innovation and to support micro, small and mediumsized enterprises effectively, but also a strategy for international trade, which takes account of the reality and the industrial ranks existing in our countries, the defence of employment with rights, the promotion of the development of our regions and social inclusion. it is not enough to say that we want an industry that looks to the future. it is urgent to look to the present and to put industries and their social impact at the centre of the decisions that must be taken in terms of macroeconomic, financial and trade policies, whether at community or national level.
a new animal health strategy needs to pay particular attention to disease prevention, animal feeding, border controls and transport. all prevention measures, testing, vaccination and other interventions to prevent further outbreaks of animal diseases are important to avoid serious damage such as that already suffered from bse, foot-and-mouth disease, bluetongue and others, because food safety and also public health are at stake. it is therefore also important that these principles be taken into account in relation to imported animals, as has already been stressed here, and we hope that the new action plan which the commissioner has just mentioned will be put in place as soon as possible and also with the aim of improving the existing mechanisms, deepening technical and human support, ensuring financial support and increasing the budgetary funds provided. this is a question which must be clarified today.
i congratulate mr van hecke on this important report. investing in human and financial capacity and overcoming existing inconsistencies between policies and institutional architecture is key to improving the effectiveness of european aid. the treaty of lisbon opens up an opportunity with the creation of the european external action service. in addition to supporting the future high representative, this service should be equipped to carry forward eu development policy in parallel with the cfsp and esdp. to ensure that aid is effective, we do not need to reinvent the wheel. it is dependent on the fulfillment of promises made. as commissioner michel stressed, member states must increase official development assistance to the levels promised in 2005, without inflating it through debt forgiveness, and must genuinely direct it towards achieving the millennium development goals, especially at a time when the escalation of oil and food prices makes the fight against poverty in the world even more urgent. mr president, more than the effectiveness of aid, what is at stake is the credibility of the european union and its effectiveness as a global actor.
, in writing. in the absence of any opportunity to comment on the variety of important issues listed in this report - both positive and negative - it should be noted that this report does not fail to mention the negative development of so-called eu development aid, even if in a mitigated way. although it does not dismantle the use of development aid, often as a mere palliative, (false) counterpart and condition for the liberalisation of markets or as an instrument of interference - with the known negative objectives and effects, see, for example, the so-called european consensus of the eu on development, the economic partnership agreements that the eu intends to impose or the financial speculation around foodstuffs, which call into question the proclaimed development objectives - the report points, not surprisingly, to the insufficiency of the results of development aid and its significant decrease in the eu - 0.38% in 2007 compared to 0.41% in 2006, far from the 0.7% of gni indicated by the un. the report also warns of the increasing use of development aid for purposes unrelated to development (such as military expenditure) and the fact that it is disbursed, in most cases, according to the priorities and timetables of the donors themselves.
in writing. − due to the delay in adopting the new structural programmes and subsequently the operational programmes submitted by the member states, the 2007 community budget for the european regional development fund (erdf), the european agricultural fund for regional development (eafrd) and the european fisheries fund (eff) was not implemented, with a total of eur 3.525 million. part of this amount has already been transferred to the 2008 budget, but €2.034 billion remains unspent. the draft amending budget proposes, among other things, that part of this unspent amount be transferred to the current budget (eur 772 million) and that the remaining amount be transferred to subsequent years. such delays have a serious impact on the implementation of programmes and, of course, it is micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, small farming and family farming, among other examples, that are most affected by these consequences, especially in view of the worsening financial and socioeconomic crisis as a result of the neoliberal policies. moreover, in the face of rising food prices, fuel prices and the downward revision of economic growth in the various eu countries, such funds should be used to promote public investment for the dynamisation of the economy and the urgent improvement of workers' incomes.
in writing. - the european parliament's report, following the european commission's own communication, forgets the enormous social impact of existing industries and persists in a neoliberal path which may guarantee high profits for large companies but does not guarantee employment with rights and the improvement of the quality of life of the population. while industry in the eu countries contributes more than 80% of private sector r & d expenditure and its innovative products account for some 73% of eu exports, the report does insist on the creation of an open and competitive internal market in services and industry, which is of interest only to the large economic groups, as it may affect micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and a high percentage of employment, which may affect the incomes of workers and many small entrepreneurs, and therefore their activity as consumers. finally, we also disagree with the strengthening of the role of the european union's defence sector, even though this may have implications for the growth of the arms industry. our proposal for social progress and development is accompanied by a perspective of peace, not war.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the importance it attaches to issues which i consider essential, in particular the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union. representing more than 90% of the european business fabric, smes have not only an economic role within the union but also a social one, as they make a remarkable contribution to employment and growth. in this context, initiatives such as the european commission's reduction of unnecessary red tape faced by these companies by 25% and the promotion of investment in human resources quality and research are to be welcomed. the eu industrial sector still has great potential for improvement, both in the realisation of research and innovation into business opportunities and in the anticipation of these opportunities for a faster adaptation to market changes. improving the regulatory framework, particularly with regard to the patent system, in order to facilitate access to the internal market and fostering european entrepreneurship are key factors in increasing our industrial competitiveness. in this context, the promotion of regional clusters also seems to me to be very positive. it seems clear to me that a thriving european industry is crucial to the achievement of the lisbon objectives.
in writing. - it is regrettable what happened today in the vote in plenary. the ppe tabled an amendment calling into question the agreement already reached with the council and aimed at improving its functioning, ensuring better conditions for support in the study and analysis of national and local labour markets, in its link with the european parliament, which would now have a strengthened role in its functioning and monitoring. with the approval of the ppe's proposal, albeit by a narrow margin, all the consensus reached was called into question. contrary to what was foreseen, a second reading is therefore necessary, and the report will be discussed again in the committee on employment and social affairs, because we are in a legislative area of codecision. hence our final vote of abstention.
in writing. - the recent developments in lebanon cannot be analysed in isolation from the worsening situation in the middle east, where the united states and its allies are stepping up their interference, intervention and military occupation in an attempt to secure their dominance of this strategic region. the resolution, whose original proposal has been overtaken by events, not only whitewashes the lebanese government's action in the recent worsening situation in lebanon, but also whitewashes the manoeuvres of interference, attempted blockade and pressure exerted by israel and the usa on the internal situation in that country, such as the military manoeuvres carried out by israel, the stationing of the us 6th brigade in the region or the promotion of the boycott of the damascus summit (note that, while ignoring the role of the usa and its allies in the region, the majority of the ep points the finger, once again, points the finger at syria and iran). the resolution also insists on political positions aimed at interfering in the internal situation in lebanon, while omitting to mention that the worsening of the situation in the middle east is due, in the first place, to the military occupation by israel of the territories of palestine, syria and even lebanon.
in writing. - i cannot help but notice a contradiction between this resolution of the european parliament and the proposals for the revision of the common agricultural policy which the commissioner responsible for agriculture has put forward here this week. it was particularly shocking that the commissioner had ignored all the social drama and the strong impact of the escalation in food price increases that has been taking place in recent months, to which the abandonment of land and the disappearance of many thousands of farms have contributed greatly, insisting on cutting the meagre support that some 70 000 small portuguese farmers receive, by proposing a minimum threshold, but forgetting to indicate a maximum threshold. the negative effect of the latest cap reform, namely the withdrawal of production aid, is well known. it is therefore particularly serious that in the present context it has announced the total abolition of the still existing production-related payments (except for suckler cows, goats and sheep only) and their transfer to the single payment scheme, while at the same time making progress in the progressive dismantling of important common market organisations and the dismantling of the milk quota system, in the abolition of intervention in areas such as durum wheat, rice and pigmeat, further encouraging abandonment of land and agricultural activity.
in writing. - global economic growth and biofuels policy have created a paradox. with the world's level of wealth, it is a serious matter that many families struggle to eat. the market is conditioned by an unprecedented concentration of population in urban agglomerations, the abandonment of agriculture for tertiary activities, and the consumption of basic foodstuffs in other complex elements of the food chain, such as livestock. biofuels have introduced a thief into the field and an unexpected guest to the table. competition between energy sources and food orchestrates their prices. we are faced with issues of scarcity, sustainability, safety and ecology. the self-sufficiency policies respond to the disappearance of strategic reserves and war fears. given the announced restrictions on grain sales, the volume of this year's harvest will be crucial. speculation is such that central banks warn of the underlying inflationary risk and india has banned trading in food futures contracts. it is urgent to reverse the situation in favour of farmers who do not yet know what they will reap, especially the smaller ones, victims of perverse and inconsistent agricultural policies. technology and science that once diverged thus find a new opportunity from which we will all benefit.
in writing. - under the pressure of the worsening capitalist crisis worldwide, even with its limitations, the resolution adopted is a denunciation of the consequences of eu policies on agriculture, exposing the real and unacceptable objectives of the cap and the wto agreements. however, the resolution fails to point out those who are really responsible for the very serious situation that exists, and it fails to draw the proper consequences from the diagnosis it makes, by failing to question the policies that are at the root of it, among other examples: it does not affirm food sovereignty as a central issue to ensure the right to food; it does not make the raising of incomes in small-scale farming and family farming a necessary condition for the preservation of agriculture, the countryside and food security; it does not call for the withdrawal of agriculture from the wto, for the end of the treatment of agri-food production as a commodity and for the revision of the blair house agreement; it does not require a break with the cap, the end of the disconnection of production aid, the application of a real cap and modulation in favour of small farming and family farming and a fair redistribution between countries and productions, promoting the full development of the agricultural and livestock production of each country.
in writing. − following the implementation of the us legislative reform on enhanced security requirements under the visa waiver programme, the us decided to propose individual memoranda of understanding to each eu member state in a 'divide and rule' attempt. these agreements are unacceptable not only because they do not respect the community's competence in this area but also because they call into question the principle of sincere cooperation and give rise to unequal treatment between citizens of the various member states in the field of visas. i welcome the fact that the commission has been given a mandate (within the framework of community competence) to negotiate an agreement between the eu and the us, which should guarantee uniform treatment on equal terms for all citizens of the union in terms of visa exemption if they want to enter american territory (as, incidentally, the union already applies to all american citizens who want to enter the union). it is important that these negotiations proceed swiftly and in the spirit of european unity so that by 2009 all member states can participate in the reformed us visa-free regime. i believe, however, that the conditions for this will only be created if the bilateral agreements concluded in the meantime are annulled. i am therefore awaiting the opinion of the legal service of the ep, which i hope will confirm this position.
in writing. - the following are deleted from this resolution: the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a joint resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east, which calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further worsened. that the situation became legally complicated when the us reformed its visa waiver regime, based on the so-called fight against terrorism, adding security measures (including access to data and information of third country nationals), requiring other countries wishing to participate in the visa waiver programme to sign a bilateral memorandum of understanding and its binding implementing rules. and that, faced with the demands of the us, the different eu member states have divided, finally showing their priorities... the resolution is part of the effort to limit the damage, but in our view it does not safeguard principles which we consider fundamental, such as the sovereignty of states and the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on burma, because in view of the dramatic situation in the country, it is urgent to restore democracy and respect for human rights. i deplore the behaviour of the burmese authorities in the face of the cyclone which devastated the country, causing thousands of deaths and displacement, and i strongly condemn the behaviour of the burmese regime in the face of this tragedy, preventing access to humanitarian aid teams and refusing to help the victims.
in writing. - we express our deep sorrow for the victims of the cyclone which hit several parts of myanmar (burma) on 2 and 3 may. we certainly believe that all diplomatic efforts, particularly within the framework of un agencies, should be made to provide urgent relief and support to the victims, to seek to minimise the number of fatalities, to respond to the problems facing the populations and to start reconstruction activities of the numerous destroyed infrastructures, in cooperation with the burmese authorities, as the resolution also stresses. however, we disagree with initiatives which, on the basis of so-called humanitarian intervention, will only hinder and call into question the efforts currently being made by un agencies, asean and various countries in the region to find solutions which will help to overcome the present obstacles and to alleviate the suffering of the affected populations. initiatives which, by unacceptably exploiting the dramatic situation of thousands and thousands of human beings, are aimed first and foremost at using the humanitarian catastrophe for political ends and as an opportunity to achieve geostrategic objectives, ultimately jeopardizing the urgent humanitarian aid that is so urgently needed. in fact, by promoting situations that may add to the natural tragedy the tragedy of war...
in writing. - we express our deep sorrow for the victims of the earthquake on 12 may, which struck several provinces and autonomous regions of the people's republic of china, and our solidarity with the chinese people who, in this time of suffering, have shown such courage and mutual help. as has been pointed out, the chinese authorities are undertaking with remarkable speed and efficiency the urgent task of providing relief and support to the victims, seeking to minimise the number of fatalities, respond to the problems faced by the populations and initiate reconstruction activities of the numerous destroyed infrastructures. the need for the various member states and the eu to provide emergency aid and resources promptly contributes to this huge effort by the chinese authorities to provide aid to the people affected by the earthquake.
in writing. - fully aware of the backward nature of the resolution, we voted in favour of it, mainly because of its points 7 and 8, which state:reiterates its call on all eu member states and nato countries to impose a moratorium on the use of depleted uranium munitions, to redouble their efforts to achieve a complete ban and to systematically end the production and acquisition of this type of weapon; the house also called on the commission to take the initiative in drawing up an international treaty to prohibit the development, production, storage, transfer, testing and use of munitions containing uranium, and to ban the destruction or recycling of existing munitions (even though the ep has made this requirement unacceptably conditional). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste. that is, it seeks to whitewash the crimes committed by nato, the us and its allies in kosovo, afghanistan or iraq (in addition to the use of depleted uranium munitions, cluster bombs or white phosphorus were used).
in writing. - this resolution continues the reach process, which we abstained from voting on because we considered that it did not meet the legitimate rights and concerns of consumers, small and mediumsized enterprises, the protection of workers and the protection of the environment. we felt that the necessary balance between the protection of workers' health, the protection of the environment and industrial development was not fully achieved, because the rights of consumers were not properly guaranteed, with the restriction of the right to information and the right to health of workers. it has also failed to take due account of micro and smes by inevitably increasing the costs of registration of substances without adequate support, and even of large companies that have already expressed a desire to replace hazardous chemicals. it now refers to measures to streamline and speed up the commission's internal procedures for the validation and regulatory acceptance of new alternative test methods, in which the commission claims to ensure a more transparent process involving the consultation of all interested parties at the preparatory stage of any proposal for a regulation adapting test methods to technical progress. we have maintained our position, hoping that there will be more transparency.
in writing. - the need for a substantial community contribution in major diseases to ensure equal treatment and opportunities where these are beyond the financial resources of the countries and producers concerned; - the recognition that eu producers face higher costs due to the more stringent standards in force in the eu and must be protected against imports of animal products obtained under less stringent standards; - the need for the commission to help farmers to cope with the high costs incurred in the acquisition of the equipment needed for the registration of animals. however, we still have some criticisms, particularly in the area of public funding, which should be strengthened so as not to have to establish private insurance to repair losses in the eradication of diseases. we cannot agree to the possibility of placing the entire responsibility for eradicating diseases on farmers by paying for private insurance.
in writing. − the animal health strategy for 2007-2013 proposed by the european commission deserves my support, as i consider it necessary to start the debate among the european institutions quickly in order to create future legislative proposals. it is necessary to give priority to action at european level, to create a modern animal health framework, to improve prevention and monitoring, and to improve scientific research. i therefore support the wojciechowski report, but i would stress that, as regards restrictions on the transport of animals for slaughter, i am against any kind of additional imposition, since the existing legislation already contains sufficient provisions to reduce animal suffering.
in writing. - since 2001, the implementation of the aarhus convention, which entered into force on 30 october 2001, has been under discussion. as most of the 35 parties to this convention are member states of the european union, they have special responsibilities in setting up the mechanisms necessary for its implementation. it is equally important to ensure that specific provisions, similar to rights already provided for in the convention, which enhance public participation at regional and global level, are also included in other conventions and treaties dealing with environmental issues. parliament and the council have already adopted three legislative instruments to implement the aarhus convention, but difficulties remain. so although there are some unclear points in the european parliament's resolution, we have generally supported it because we believe it is important to help create universal conditions for access to justice and to proceedings involving environmental matters. we therefore hope that at the third session of the meeting of the parties to the convention, to be held in riga, latvia, from 11 to 13 june 2008, some positive progress will be made in the process.
in writing. - there are aspects of the resolution that are more important than others... some policies, because of their structural importance, condition all the others... an example... by not calling into question the economic partnership agreements (epas), merely by referring to the need not to make development aid conditional on countries accepting greater liberalisation of their markets, all the positive aspects of such aid are being thrown out of the picture. the epas condition the sovereignty of the countries, they impose a model which favours the eu's multinationals, they condition the production of the countries not to the multiple needs of their peoples but, on the contrary, to the requirements of an increasingly liberalised market. i therefore welcome the fact that military expenditure should be excluded from the scope of development aid, that effective resources should be allocated to the development and improvement of public services, that aid should be definitively stopped being diverted to objectives which are not in any way linked to development, but these measures will only be effective if we reject trade liberalisation and the instruments of domination and interference enshrined in the epas. only by overcoming this contradiction can aid be established that is truly based on solidarity and respect for national sovereignty.
i congratulate helmut kuhne on his excellent report and in particular on his insistence on introducing the concept of human security in combination with the principle of the responsibility to protect - a concept which mr solana has also defended here. these should be the twin pillars of a european approach to crisis management missions. on the one hand, a decision to intervene in a country under the esdp must be guided by an interpretation of the un charter that underlines the imperative of the responsibility to protect: the obligation to prevent genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. on the other hand, since the union is involved in a crisis which requires the use of military means, it is essential that the application of force be guided by the doctrine of human security. this will require european troops to concentrate their efforts on creating safe spaces for non-combatant civilian populations, far more than on destroying the enemy with military victory in view. these two principles equip europe with a coherent strategy for crisis management at the beginning of the 21st century. the first amendment of the pse therefore reflects the moral, legal and operational demands we face in afghanistan, chad or lebanon and will face in the future. i therefore find it regrettable that this amendment has been rejected by the epp-ed and gue/ngl members. this reactionary alliance insists on turning a blind eye to the primacy of human rights and this is a concept which would only strengthen the legitimacy and popular support for esdp missions.
the 10th of june will be the last summit between the eu and the united states in the bush era, forever marked by the illegal invasion of iraq, the ignominy of abu ghraib, guantanamo and the secret prisons. let's breathe a sigh of relief after eight years of setbacks. eight years wasted for what could have been an effective fight against terrorism, compatible with the values of democracy and human rights. we have lost the search for peace in the middle east, we have lost the fight against organized crime and for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. but it is known that barack obama will be the candidate of the democratic party and hope is returning. the european union has been a strong supporter of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and even of the goal of total nuclear disarmament. this has already had repercussions on his republican opponent mccain, who has aligned himself with obama and added support for the withdrawal of tactical nuclear weapons from europe. this proves that there is a critical mass in the united states ready for a change of strategy. europe should address the new administration as soon as possible to develop joint strategies for the npt review conference in 2010 and for all frameworks where global security and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in particular are concerned, including the negotiations with iran. in this context, contacts between european parliamentarians and american congressmen are of the greatest importance and should be intensified as of now. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, i salute the fishermen of the various countries of the european union, and particularly of portugal, for their fight in defence of the strategic fisheries sector, employment and the guarantee of decent wages and living conditions for thousands of fishermen and their families. in the face of a common fisheries policy and an eu that is indifferent to the long-term socioeconomic crisis facing the sector, which has been exacerbated by the increasing price and financial speculation on fuels - diesel and petrol - fishermen have shown that there are solutions and measures that should have been taken a long time ago. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. fishing has a future. i cannot end this brief speech without greeting the many thousands of workers who will be demonstrating in lisbon tomorrow in defence of their achievements and labour rights.
eurofound recently reported that 25% of redundancies in portugal between 2003 and 2006 resulted from the relocation of companies. it is recorded that several multinationals did so after receiving millions of euros in community aid and making many millions in profits, which is unacceptable. there are cases where workers have not yet received the compensation to which they are entitled, as in the case of vila nova de gaia with brax, whose workers went to the court yesterday to ask for the compensation money owed five years ago. unemployment is also justifying an increasingly precarious work environment to which the government is responding with more attempts to roll back labour rights. so i welcome the day of struggle that the cgtp is promoting tomorrow in lisbon, portugal.
the generalised system of preferences has been proven to be a key instrument of trade policy with a view to promoting development and eradicating poverty in the weakest countries and regions of the world through their progressive integration into the international trading system. the european union has, as has already been said, three types of schemes aimed at promoting this same development. the mechanisms in place are working well in the main, but they can of course be improved and the european parliament must play a very active role in making this happen. in essence, this report clearly goes in that direction. the proposals contained in it seem very relevant in relation to such important issues as the reform and clarification of the rules of origin, in the sense of the very value of the principle of regional aggregation, the assessment of the impact of the conclusions of the ongoing discussion in the doha round and the call for an increase in technical assistance to the least developed countries so that they can fully benefit from this support. all these concerns point in the same direction: to make these instruments more useful to the poorest countries, thus making a decisive contribution to the achievement of their ultimate objective, namely the fight against the backwardness, poverty and absolute inequality that underdevelopment continues to shape in the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 june 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the joint debate on the reports by mr gianni pittella, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on competition: inquiry into the retail banking sector (a6-0185/2008) and mr othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the commission's green paper on retail financial services in the single market (2007/2287 (ini)) (a6-0187/2008) will follow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 june 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the aubert report on illegal fishing, as the rapporteur has already said, and which i congratulate, was unanimously adopted by the committee on fisheries. this fact alone is probably more illuminating than anything i can say at this point on the subject. but it is never too late to say that illegal fishing is a crime against nature and the economy, which unfortunately often goes unpunished and against which we must act with determination and courage. i therefore commend commissioner borg and the commission for the swift way in which they responded to the concerns expressed by parliament in february 2007 by presenting a proposal for a regulation which exceeded all expectations and which deserved our just applause. however, however good the regulatory framework may be, without the commitment of the member states and the provision of adequate human and material resources, it will not be easy to succeed in a fight which is waged in extremely difficult conditions. that is why the member states must also be mobilised. in any case, with this report and the regulations that will follow, the european union is taking a very important step and is setting an example that we are proud of and honour. i am sure that the commission will not fail to welcome parliament's contributions to further improve its proposal. madam president, commissioner, i apologize if i am now breaking any rules of procedure, but i cannot help but take advantage of your presence here to make a strong appeal. the fisheries sector is experiencing major difficulties due to the increase in fuel prices. right now, everyone is suffering, but the most vulnerable are suffering the most. i know that several member states, including my country, portugal, intend to ask you, or have already asked for your support, to find solutions within the european framework, in particular through the flexibilization of the european fisheries fund, in order to adopt measures that can mitigate the social effects of the current crisis. i know that it would not be necessary to do so, but i continue to appeal to you for your solidarity and the spirit of openness that you have always shown towards the problems of the sector, so that you can help to find a satisfactory solution as soon as possible.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, regardless of one or other aspect that we have reservations about, we welcome the initiative to prevent and seek to prevent and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and we agree with the general lines of the report. we stress, among other things, the importance of the rules laid down in this initiative being applied to all vessels, whether from countries within the european union or from third countries. however, we stress that future consistency between these proposals and a future revision of community control standards should safeguard the member states' competences, in particular as regards procedures and the conduct of inspections. we also believe that the whole range of sanctions is a matter for the member states. finally, i would just like to stress that if the commission were as quick to respond to the sector's just demands as it was with this initiative, it would not face the continuing worsening of its socioeconomic situation.
madam president, we have indeed an excellent report, and we should congratulate our rapporteur. the proposal, as the commission has already said, is a good one, but i would like to stress the message given to us by the rapporteur for the committee on international trade, mr daniel varela suanzes-carpegna, namely that this is exactly the mechanism that can respond effectively to a crisis such as the one we are experiencing today in the fisheries sector. it is precisely because sustainable fishing standards are not being met that fishermen are facing this crisis, and this is the fundamental lesson i hope we can all learn. the problem is that the clock is ticking and the clock is not stopping because of our legislative process, and from this point of view, commissioner, it is urgent to take action, as has already been said here, because otherwise we will not be able to respond to our challenges in time.
member of the commission. − madam president, mr freitas’ report deals with a proposal that opens the way to the introduction of the principle of environmental impact assessments in the fisheries field. i cannot overstate how important this is in terms of a regime shift and an alignment of fisheries regulation with many other maritime activities. in addition, this principle responds to a very specific objective – that of preventing damage to vulnerable marine ecosystems. the proposal fully embodies the ecosystem approach, which the commission is committed to implementing under the common fisheries policy. through this proposal, we respond to the calls made in 2006 by the united nations general assembly to take effective action to prevent vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas from being destroyed or significantly damaged by bottom fishing activities. in relation to vessels that operate in areas for which no international conservation and management regime is in place, it is up to the flag state to regulate the activities of its vessels to ensure this protection. since the european union exerts the regulatory competence of the flag state under international law, we must adopt appropriate measures to respond to this un call by the end of this year. the regulation, as proposed, will thus apply to eu flagged vessels operating in non-rfmo areas of the high seas. we currently have a sizeable fleet operating in the south west atlantic, which is one such area. the text has been designed to established result obligations by flag member states, namely to ensure that no fishing permits are to be given to fish with bottom gears unless an assessment of potential impacts clearly demonstrates low risk for vulnerable marine ecosystems. what this means is that the commission does not go into the detail as to how member states are to conduct such assessments, but rather we fix the minimum standards relating to scientific information and then leave it up to member states to see how to achieve the required results. our proposal stipulates that bottom gears cannot be deployed below a depth of 1 000 metres. the argument that the proposed rule has no scientific basis cannot be sustained. on the one hand, we are still developing our knowledge of the deep oceans and face so much uncertainty that the full application of the precautionary approach is warranted. the proposed depth limit is a reasonable choice, as it does not impinge on current eu fleet activities, which are much shallower. on the other hand, this rule seeks to ensure that we give ourselves time to test how this new regulatory approach works before we allow our fishers to expand into deeper waters. this is about keeping the present state of our activities in place until we know enough to be more confident about expanding them safely. the commission is ready to come back to this specific point in two years’ time, when we submit a report to the council and to this assembly on the regulation’s implementation and effectiveness. it is for these reasons that the commission cannot accept the deletion of this rule as proposed in the report. secondly, mr freitas’ report proposes to amend the provision whereby the regulation would impose full observer coverage in the fleets, and stipulate instead a sampling system. the commission also has difficulty in accepting this amendment since, with the absence of observers, only vms remains as a control tool for monitoring compliance by each vessel with its approved fishing plans. this is not enough, and it is probably unrealistic to expect national fisheries monitoring centres to ensure real-time, individual monitoring of each unit in the fleet. in addition, without an observer on board, the very important ‘move away rule’ in case the vessel accidentally encounters an uncharted ecosystem will simply be inoperative as it is impossible to monitor compliance with this rule by vms. as in the previous case, this requirement can be reviewed in two years’ time to assess its effectiveness. most of the remaining proposed amendments are acceptable to the commission, and many have indeed already been brought forward on similar lines during the council discussions. i would like to thank parliament for the support it has expressed to the commission in our efforts to provide an effective response on this issue.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on the initiative it has taken in this proposal, firstly, and of course, for two reasons. firstly, because it is in line with and follows up on the initiative and proactivity of the european union in the united nations general assembly on this matter and, secondly, because it is based on a very important principle, namely the impact of the evaluation of fisheries even before authorization to operate is granted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. the fact is that in coastal areas it is up to the states to take measures to protect vulnerable ecosystems from bottom fishing. in international waters, the protection of the marine environment is the general responsibility of regional marine conventions, where they exist, while the adoption of measures for the conservation and management of living marine resources and the regulation of the impact of fishing on vulnerable ecosystems is the responsibility of regional fisheries management organisations. however, areas of the high seas remain without any body to regulate fishing practices, which is an invitation to destructive fishing. it is on the basis of this reality that the united nations general assembly, and with the european union also taking the lead, has naturally come to the notion that something must be done to protect these seabeds where there is no control whatsoever. this is a positive action, which should be emphasized, which should be welcomed, as is the commission's own proposal, but it is also a good proposal, we can call it a good one, because we are going to oblige vessels flying the flags of our member states to follow a set of rules which we must ensure that, in parallel, through diplomatic channels, other third countries fishing in the areas we are talking about - deep-sea areas - also follow us, because it is useless for the european union to take the lead and oblige its vessels to carry out these studies, to comply with a set of requirements, if other vessels flying other flags are then going to engage in destructive fishing in the exact area we want to protect. so there is one area where this kind and welcome proposal from the commission must have a consequence in terms of diplomatic efforts and also on the basis of the agreement we have had with the united nations general assembly to be able to take a step forward in this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i think that this study covers the whole depth from 800 to 1 100 or 1 500 metres, and therefore there will be no need to define clearly the 1 000 metres, which is already protected in another way. however, we are still waiting for some further justification, perhaps technical, which the experts we have heard have not been able to put forward, but i think that the statement of the commissioner so far is not sufficient justification for us to assume that the proposal for 1,000 metres would be valid. however, we are waiting and hoping that the european parliament's proposal can indeed be taken into account following tomorrow's vote.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on this excellent report and to remind him that what is at stake here is the protection of the seabed, including deep coral reefs, seamounts, hydrothermal vents and deep-sea sponges, which are precious relics of our ecosystems. i would also like to point out that the protection of these ecosystems in the autonomous region of the azores has been in place for a long time and was only called into question by the european institutions in 2003, when they decided to open up fishing in this region indiscriminately without taking into account the need to protect these ecosystems. above all, what i think is most important is that we have fully coherent legislation and the problem of the thousand metres is that it is meaningless to say that you cannot fish beyond the thousand metres outside european waters and that you can fish beyond the thousand metres within european waters - it is meaningless from the point of view of the environmental coherence of the legislation. above all, what also worries me most is that this un resolution - the fundamental resolution 61/105 of 8 december 2006 - concerns several other measures, in particular those relating to the protection of wild turtles that exist on the surface and that, unfortunately, the european commission, instead of implementing this decision in its entirety, has decided to start, therefore, point by point, sector by sector, several years later. this does not seem to me to be the best of legislative techniques; it is better that the whole united nations decision be transposed to the community level and that, both within and outside community waters, this would simplify matters immensely and make the legislation much more operational.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in general, in line with the proposals in the report aimed at protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas, we stress the need for measures to be taken in this context to be based on scientific research in fisheries and to be appropriate, particularly in the light of the diversity of existing situations. the report also stresses the need to find a definition based on the best available scientific information. in the same vein, there is a need to distinguish between the different consequences of the use of different gears, assessing through scientific research on fisheries their potential impacts on resources and the seabed. finally, we reiterate that we still consider it to be the responsibility of each member state to decide on the scope of questions relating to inspections or omissions of observation.
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome the number of points and comments that have been made, which underline the importance you attach to the issue of dealing with destructive fishing practices. as i said earlier, our proposal responds to a call by the international community and we must show our determination to meet that call. on the issue of the proposed 1 000-metre depth limit, i wish to say that it is crucial that we adopt a precautionary approach, and this chosen limit was designed in a way that provides us with an assurance that we do not have a sudden development of fisheries in a particular area. at the same time, it does not, at this juncture, actually affect current fisheries, and if this is the case i do not understand why there is such resistance to the 1 000-metre limit. but i will look into it again and i am hopeful that this issue can be resolved satisfactorily in the council in june. however, i would also say that i do not agree that we should allow unlimited bottom fishing until we have identified vulnerable ecosystems, because once the harm is done, it is done, and then it is too late. this is why we insist on the precautionary approach. on the issue of observers, let me say that this is a crucial point if we are to show that we are serious about the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas. having full coverage is a key point for the commission. i am confident that we can find a solution to this issue too in the council in june without abandoning the principle of full observer coverage.
the rapporteur. - i regret that the commissioner has not paid attention to what almost all of us members have said, and what the report itself says about the 1000 metres. there is no, and i repeat, there is no scientific evidence that the thousand meters number is the right one. why a thousand? why not 800 or 1,200? there's no scientific evidence, and we've had an audience with experts, and we've had the opportunity to have the head of the azores' department of oceanography and fisheries who's done many good, internationally recognized studies of the seabed, and other people i've talked to, other technicians: there's no evidence that 1,000 meters is reasonable. the thousand metres may have been copied from the mediterranean, but we are not talking about the same area, we are talking about completely different areas! and let's see, my friends: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if we are asking the fleets to produce scientific studies to determine whether or not there are any vulnerable seabeds, we are being unreasonable. let's not talk then, in a thousand meters. if there are vulnerable deep-sea ecosystems, they may be at 800 or 1200, but the studies that we force the fleets to submit for fishing licenses will show it: it's as simple as that, and so i think it's a matter of reasonableness in relation to this question. in conclusion, just one last reference to the importance of this subject: it is often said that we know the lunar surface better than the deep sea floor, and so here we are, obliging us, the private sector, to help us to know the deep sea floor better.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr audy on his excellent report, both in its considerations and in its proposals. in fact, customs, as the report explicitly states, is today a multifunctional instrument. it has fiscal functions, its original functions, but it also has economic functions, and increasingly functions in terms of protecting the security of european businesses and european consumers. from an economic point of view, it must of course facilitate international trade and the european union has every interest in this happening. but it must also concentrate on its security functions, security in the sense of strongly countering and combating counterfeiting and piracy, combating situations of absolutely unfair competition which affect some european companies, particularly in weaker sectors, and protecting the environment and public health, which are now goods which our communities increasingly value. and to do that, we need to go further. the proposal put forward by the rapporteur seems to us to be the right one, which is to give greater weight to harmonization at the level of the customs system. we have a trade policy and a customs policy which is a community policy, but then we have a series of national administrations which are not always articulated in the most appropriate way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. to move forward with new practices, to establish better coordination, to create conditions for effective harmonization of customs administration at community level. we shall thus be providing a good service to the citizens of europe, both from the producer and consumer perspectives. there is also an issue which i think is very important and which concerns small and mediumsized enterprises, and which is also dealt with in the report and has just been dealt with by the previous speaker. our small and mediumsized enterprises are particularly vulnerable in these situations where we are victims of unfair competition and our customs system is not always prepared to deal successfully with these risks, and therefore we have to invest heavily in this and establish better links with the small and mediumsized enterprises themselves, which do not always have the deep knowledge of the rules and procedures and are therefore hampered in their access, in their ability to access international trade. i would like to conclude, as i have already begun, by congratulating the author of this report, who i believe has come to serve europe in this specific area, which is as important as the question of the customs system.
it is important that the 2008 european championships be used to re-inform the public, reminding them that prostitution and the highly lucrative trafficking of women for sexual exploitation are unacceptable, as they are forms of violence against women, girls and children. it is therefore essential that the necessary measures be taken to combat this trafficking effectively and at the same time to support the victims of this situation in the various member states, with information on the results of the actions taken. but we must not lose sight of the fact that the worsening inequalities, precarious and low-paid work, unemployment and poverty are driving thousands of women and young girls into prostitution and making life easier for traffickers. so another question arises: how will the european union's leaders act to tackle the root causes of these serious human rights violations against hundreds of thousands of women and young people and put an end to these new forms of slavery?
the barcelona process exists because there are a number of central issues in european policy which concern the relationship with the south: energy, the fight against terrorism, demography and immigration, economic development and the fight against crime are some of these issues. we must, however, recognize that the barcelona process is not being a success. europe's great success has been to promote reforms in the applicant countries. the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, as we know, cannot join, but they are in some cases our most problematic neighbours. the question therefore is where we should change our strategy to relaunch the process so that the new union for the mediterranean is not just another formula. we believe that the way forward is to support concrete investments in the context of a genuine opening up of the markets. do we believe in as wide an access as possible to community recovery instruments? do we support the dependence of the amounts of aid on the quality of the reforms to be undertaken? i think so, because the problems of the mediterranean are also our problems. we must bear in mind that if we do not understand what went wrong in barcelona, we will not be able to introduce a new dynamic in the relationship with our partners in the south.
in writing. − following the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1405/2006 laying down specific measures for agriculture in favour of the aegean islands, two lines of support were established (support for supply and support for local production). some technical aspects must, however, be corrected for the full application of the regulation and these two support lines, so i support the commission's proposal and approve the parish report.
in writing. - this amending budget proposal, among other things, provides for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for greece and slovenia, with a view to contributing to compensation for the damage caused by the forest fires and floods which severely affected the populations of these two countries in 2007, respectively. the proposal also aims to ensure that the emergency fund for veterinary measures following the bluetongue crisis affecting several member states, including portugal, is increased. in order to finance 100% of the costs of procuring vaccines and 50% of the costs incurred for vaccination in nine member states, it is proposed to enter in the community budget eur 130 million in commitment appropriations and eur 63.95 million in payment appropriations. however, we note that over eur 257 million has been committed and eur 194 million paid for the establishment of new public-private partnerships under the seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration - innovative medicines (imi), clean sky, the european nanoelectronics technology platform, and artemis, on embedded computing systems. at the very least, such initiatives require that a public development strategy and public investment are not conditioned by the interests of private capital.
in writing. − this amending budget is intended to enter the surplus for the 2007 financial year in the 2008 community budget. this amount exceeds eur 1.528 million, mainly due, among other things, to the delay in the approval of the operational programmes of the structural funds and the cohesion fund to be transferred to the various member states. the proposal also includes amounts from the eu's so-called 'common foreign and security policy' not used in 2007, such as the 'police mission' in afghanistan or the 'civilian (so-called) mission' in kosovo. the eu is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the eu is calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. finally, i would just like to stress that the 'surplus budgeting' of 2007 will reduce the member states' contributions to the community budget, of which the following stand out: less eur 300 million for germany, less eur 258 million for great britain and less eur 233 million for france. it's called "winning all the boards"...
in writing. − the european strategy on preventing and combating organised crime highlights the need to develop a coherent european policy to combat corruption, in which the active participation of all relevant actors is essential. the effectiveness of preventing and fighting corruption in europe thus depends on effective and efficient cooperation between the respective authorities and services of the member states, identifying opportunities, sharing best practices and developing high standards of professionalism. i therefore support the idea of formally establishing an anti-corruption network with contact points in the member states, in which other bodies and agencies playing a key role in the fight against corruption, such as olaf, europol and eurojust, should be fully involved (in accordance with their respective competences). i also support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, mr hubert pirker, in particular the amendment on the need for transparency and information on the activities and recommendations of this network, which should be reflected in the submission of an annual report to the commission and the european parliament.
in writing. − the creation of a 'network of contact points' in a framework of cooperation between the different member states, aimed at sharing experience and best practice, could be an added value for the fight against corruption carried out at country level. in accordance with the ec treaty, the community and the member states are responsible for taking measures to combat fraud and to protect the community's financial interests. at community level, for example, there is a need to give the anti-fraud office (olaf) greater autonomy and resources. however, we consider it negative that such a measure is seen as an embryo, serves to promote or falls within the more general objective of developing the so-called 'area of freedom, security and justice', by implementing the hague programme of 2005, in particular the communi­tionalization of justice and home affairs. the process of community-building which the treaty, now known as the 'lisbon' treaty, aims to promote and secure by taking away from the sovereignty of the states (their parliaments and other national institutions) powers which are at the heart of this process. we therefore reaffirm our reservations about the creation of a european prosecutor, a step in the process of creating a future 'european prosecutor's office' based on europol, eurojust and olaf.
in writing. − iuu fishing is one of the biggest problems facing the management of marine resources today. it is a threat to the sustainability of resources and marine biodiversity and has serious economic consequences for fishermen who are legally fishing. the european community, as a major consumer and importer of fishery products, has a particular responsibility in combating illegal fishing and in adopting solutions to prevent the continuation of such practices, as well as in putting pressure on the international community to adopt similar measures. the european parliament's report contains 65 amendments which complement the commission's proposal and are contrary to national interests. the proposal sets out a system applicable to all iuu fishing activities or associated activities carried out on community territory or in waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of member states, which was widely discussed and advocated during the portuguese eu presidency. this document therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. − the sustainability of fisheries resources is essential to ensure the long-term viability of fishing and the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector. illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing threatens this sustainability and jeopardises the viability of the sector and the fishing communities that depend on it. as such, it is essential that measures are taken to strengthen the fight against these illegal activities, in particular by strengthening the control mechanisms in each member state. this proposal, which complements measures already provided for under the common fisheries policy, introduces a number of provisions aimed at curbing such practices by both vessels flying the flag of a member state and those of third countries. the commission is proposing, among other things, greater controls by member states in their ports, the requirement for a certificate from the flag state that the fish is legal and the creation of a list of vessels involved in iuu fishing. however, we reiterate that future consistency between these proposals and a future revision of community control standards should safeguard the competences of the member states, particularly with regard to inspections. we also reaffirm that the whole range of sanctions is a matter for the member states.
in writing. − by their nature, some marine ecosystems (such as reefs, seamounts, hydrothermal vents, coldwater corals or coldwater sponge beds) are vulnerable to the use of certain fishing gear. this proposal aims to protect these ecosystems on the high seas, in particular in areas not regulated by a regional fisheries management organisation. we agree in substance with the proposal submitted and the report voted, but we reiterate that certain aspects of the proposal deserve better clarification. for example, as regards the definition of 'vulnerable marine ecosystem', the report stresses the need to find a definition, in particular within the fao and in accordance with the 'best scientific information', given the lack of in-depth scientific knowledge about these ecosystems. or, as we have said, there is also the need to distinguish the consequences of using different gear, assessing through scientific research on fisheries their potential impacts on resources and the seabed. finally, it is not too much to say that we consider that the scope of issues relating to inspections or observation missions on fishing vessels is a matter for each member state, particularly when new levels of federal deepening are announced under the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − the serious forest fires in greece in the summer of 2007 and the severe floods in slovenia in september 2007 justify this (second) mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, compared to 2007. the fund has a ceiling of eur 1 billion per year, of which some eur 163 million has already been used at the request of the united kingdom in relation to the floods in that country in 2007. some eur 837 million is thus available. the proposal adopted today provides for the allocation of some eur 90 million to greece and some eur 8 million to slovenia. a small help in the face of the losses suffered by the populations of these two countries, which in the greek case exceed two billion euros. however, there is at least one question that is raised: how is it possible that only now, almost a year after the catastrophes that have hit the people, is eu money being made available? there's definitely something wrong. we recall that we have put forward proposals to speed up the procedures for mobilising this fund, to ensure that regional disasters are still eligible and to recognise the specific nature of mediterranean natural disasters such as drought and fires in this fund.
in writing. − the overall objective of the proposal presented by the european commission is to pursue the liberalisation of bus transport services (regular and occasional) at eu level - in particular between different eu countries and between them and third countries, including cabotage operations - from 1 january 2009. among the many aspects that deserve our rejection, we highlight:- those aimed at limiting the competence of a state to manage road passenger transport in its territory, in particular in the defence of this public service (not to be confused with the so-called "service of general interest" of private ownership, financed by public funds); - eliminate the concept of 'working time' by referring only to 'driving time' and 'rest periods', seeking to increase the exploitation of drivers; - the (re) introduction of the '12-day regime', i.e. the possibility of postponing the weekly rest period for 12 consecutive 24-hour periods, which in our view could lead to situations which would jeopardise the safety of road transport workers and passengers. look at the situations that are already occurring with more restrictive norms regarding working time and rest. that is why we are voting against it!
in writing. the grosch report is part of a series of texts on road transport activities and their rules in the european area. this recast provides for a strengthening of the capacity and powers of the national authorities to obtain or withdraw licences from a carrier in the event of serious infringements of community legislation. the situations of serious infringements are thus clarified, as are the conditions for the establishment of non-discriminatory penalties proportionate to the seriousness of the infringement. the member states will also have a register of serious infringements by road transport undertakings, linked to the national register of such undertakings, as an assessment tool. i believe that the objectives of this recast will be to promote greater administrative simplification and legal certainty for this economic activity and for companies which comply with the rules. can we finally aim for a genuine market in road bus transport, which is open, competitive and guarantees the highest standards of road safety?
in writing. - i voted against the horst schnellhardt report on food hygiene because i consider that the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 852/2004 with a view to exempting the application of the preventive haccp control system by small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the food sector, proposed by the commission, is not justified at present, as there is no evidence so far of any concrete problems with the application of this procedure. i consider that 2009, when this regulation is due to be reviewed, would be the appropriate time to propose any amendments to it, should they be justified.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report on the exemption of food business operators from the regulation on food hygiene. the exemption should apply to micro-enterprises selling foodstuffs and not to large supermarkets and franchised supermarket chains. this exemption is necessary, as experience in our country shows, both for the defence of traditional gastronomy and the habits and customs associated with it and for the protection of family businesses, which represent a large proportion of workers in this sector and are those who face the greatest difficulties in the face of unbalanced competition with the large groups. furthermore, the introduction, application and maintenance of processes based on the principles of hazard analysis and critical control points (haccp) which may be important for large enterprises to ensure food safety, cannot have an equal application in large and small enterprises, in particular in the catering industry. while it is true that food legislation must ensure a high level of protection of human life and health and the interests of consumers, this cannot be confused with the end of traditions and attacks on the gastronomic culture of each country and region.
in writing. − directive 96/22/ec prohibits the use of thyrostatic substances, stilbenes and their derivatives, salts and esters, listed in annex ii, list a, for administration to animals of all species, i.e. animals or animal products intended for human consumption, as well as to pet animals. however, the two products listed in annex ii, list b, may be used under certain conditions. with the amendment now proposed the commission proposes:- to exclude pet animals from the scope of this directive, which means that the prohibition on the use of certain substances simply no longer applies to them and they can therefore be treated with these substances; - the hormone estradiol 17β, which was temporarily authorized for use in farm animals for the treatment of foetal maceration/mummification or pyrometry, is completely banned. the fourth application, concerning esterification in bovine, equine, ovine and caprine animals, was only authorised until october 2006 and its period had already expired. it is a substance considered to be carcinogenic and there are already alternatives on the market, thus making the use of this hormone superfluous and therefore it may be banned.
in writing. − the commission's aim is to remove pet animals from the scope of council directive 96/22/ec, thus allowing their treatment with substances with thyrostatic effects and beta-agonists. this important measure is aimed at reducing the suffering of companion animals and will allow the use of substances with thyrostatic effects for the treatment of hyperthyroidism in these animals. on the other hand, from the point of view of scientific evaluation, the latest developments tell us that the use of these products is not economically attractive in animal production for human consumption or can be replaced by alternative substances. it also aims to completely ban the use of 17-beta-oestradiol and its esters in animal production for human consumption, thus ending the various existing derogations. i would remind you that these hormones, which are used to promote growth, can be carcinogenic to humans and that the existing derogations can finally be abolished once substitution by alternative substances can be carried out without problems. these amendments will achieve a high degree of consumer protection for meat and animal products, while allowing the treatment and reduction of suffering of companion animals.
in writing. - as we have already pointed out, the current generalized system of preferences (gsp) is based on a logic which contains a contradiction: that it is through the liberalization of international trade - an export-promoting model, regulated at world level, with a 'centre' and a 'periphery' - that development is promoted. a logic which denies fair international relations and aid to the development of the endogenous factors of the economically less developed countries, without which - between the theft of external debt and the imposition of the interests of the large multinationals of the usa, the eu and japan - they will continue to have a peripheral and subordinate status. trade is a component of development, but it is by far not the most important. the gsp guarantees preferential access to products from a very diverse range of countries. the gsp applies to products of particular importance to portugal (canned tuna, tomato concentrate, textiles and clothing). textiles and clothing are particularly affected, in particular by the existence of a high graduation threshold for the sector. this and other negative aspects need to be changed, or else there will be serious consequences for the national productive sector, with the social and economic consequences that follow.
in writing. - among the many and important aspects that could be highlighted in this resolution, it is worth noting the profound hypocrisy of those who now reiterate their full support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a state, when they were the same ones who led and supported the illegal and illegitimate us/nato/eu 'operation' against yugoslavia - which was characterised by interference, destabilisation, aggression and military occupation, culminating in the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo, in violation of international law. moreover, once again, what is evident is a clear position - which we reject - of interference and of strengthening the presence, including military, of the eu/nato/usa in this region, which has an increasing geostrategic importance. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime, including the use of chemical weapons. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. - if there were any doubts about the real meaning, ambition and scope of the so-called 'lisbon' treaty, a careful reading of the resolutions on 'esdp' and 'cfsp', adopted by the majority of the ep, would of course dispel them. the forces behind so-called 'european integration' - the big financial and economic interests, social democracy and the right - are trying to assert the eu as an imperialist bloc, under the direction of its great powers. in addition to enhancing the eu's policy of intervention (such as the so-called 'missions' in afghanistan, chad/central african republic, bosnia-herzegovina, kosovo, guinea-bissau) and operational capacity ('to undertake two military operations rapidly and simultaneously'), this report is a real guide to militarism and militarism. as an example, the report points to the following objectives: the deepening of the eu's so-called 'security strategy'; the military dimension of so-called 'civil missions'; the militarisation of 'development aid' and 'development' as an instrument of intervention; the strengthening of military transport means (a400m military aircraft and helicopters); the increase in expenditure on 'defence' and military actions, including by using the community budget; the operational capacity to conduct eu military actions; the coordination of projects and the arms industry. these are among the many reasons why we voted against.
in writing. − the european union's ambition in the field of security and defence is clearly inferior to its capacity to achieve it. and it is not just the traditional impediment of difficulty in coordinating and cooperating on external priorities. there is a central question here that must be reached. the external dimension and the building of capacity for action lack manpower, availability and cooperation, we know that. but they also need a public perception of the need and usefulness of such cooperation. we must build this strategy on cooperation - investing in particular in interoperability and capacity building for action on the ground - but it is above all public support that is often lacking in this dimension of our policies. the recognition of the importance, necessity and effectiveness of the security and defence dimension depends to a large extent on the public support it can generate. and that support depends, in large measure, on our efforts. finally, i would stress the importance of remembering that the atlantic alliance is a basic pillar of european security and defence which must not and cannot under any circumstances be disregarded.
in writing. - one of the most surprising facts about european politics is the way in which relations between europe and the united states are treated, particularly when compared with the formulas used to present our relationship with other partners who are more distant politically and culturally. it is clear that there are differences, disagreements, competition, interests, in particular legitimate economic interests, which put us in different places and positions. but the essential point is that we are in the realm of tensions and differences between partners in the same project. it is important to recognize it so that we are able to act and react to what confronts us. and in this respect, starting with the real elimination of unjustified and unjustifiable trade barriers between partners such as europe and the united states is one way forward. similarly, if we are to respond to the threat of a poverty outbreak, the unnecessary result of increased global demand, it is important that we cooperate with each other and, above all, with the rest of the world, to enable the countries in greatest difficulty to achieve the trade openness necessary to build their own wealth. a more prosperous world is built on the foundation of a strong alliance between free societies that stimulate creation.
in writing. - while not failing to highlight the inter-imperialist contradictions, this resolution reaffirms the eu-us concertation and the objective of strengthening their association - particularly in view of the forthcoming us presidential elections - for the sharing of the 'responsibility' of the world. the resolution reaffirms the eu as the european pillar of nato, as enshrined in the european security strategy, and calls for increased 'collaboration on a wide range of political challenges of common interest, including the middle east, iran, iraq, kosovo and the western balkans, afghanistan and africa'. the resolution calls for the launch of a "re-defined and stronger eu-nato partnership" and points to the adaptation of the "european security strategy" to the new nato strategic concept under discussion. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to meet its commitments to the united nations. this is the rise and assertion of the eu as a political, economic and military bloc, which aims to share world domination (by seeking to rebalance its relations) with the us. the people and the world take care of each other...
in writing. - if we read the resolution adopted today, we would be led to believe in the eu's most genuine and benevolent intentions towards the so-called 'union for the mediterranean'. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the european commission is clearer, pointing out that 'the mediterranean is an area of vital strategic importance for the eu in political and economic terms'. it refers to the 'significant progress that has been made towards the establishment of a euro-mediterranean free trade area by 2010' and points to the 'need for deeper and faster reforms by eu partners'. the commission put forward a set of priorities, such as transport (pointing to the 'possibility of establishing a system of concessions' to the private sector and 'accompanied by government measures to liberalize trade and to abolish the various non-tariff barriers which hinder it') and 'deepening the integration of energy markets'. the eu aims to control the entire mediterranean region economically, politically and militarily, seeking to dominate its markets and exploit its immense resources. this is capitalism, you idiot!
in writing. - many of the guidelines set out in the report are correct, to which we contribute with some amendments, in particular those relating to the 'increasing difficulties' faced by young farmers, the high costs of setting up and the level of indebtedness and the lack of available holdings. we have put forward a number of proposals which we will bring to the attention of the european commission in the future, including: - the need to take the necessary measures to support, accompany and advise young farmers on their first installation, with a view to increasing success rates and, at the same time, minimising or eliminating situations of withdrawal or even bankruptcy; - the creation of a land bank to be set up on the basis of the land released by early retirement; - the need to establish support for the joint acquisition of high-cost machinery and equipment with low individual use. however, we consider the measures adopted insufficient in the face of the existing problems and which make portugal the member state of the european union with the lowest percentage of young farmers (less than 4%). the cap must be revised in such a way that the value of production is properly assessed and fair prices are set for production.
in writing. − in recent decades, european rural areas have been becoming more desertified, a trend which has been accompanied by a progressive ageing of the population. this ageing of the agricultural population is worrying for the future of european agriculture, and i therefore find the veraldi report very relevant in considering the various aspects relating to the expectations and opportunities for young farmers - who have a key role in the sustainable development of european rural areas. i consider young farmers to be of particular importance for the development of a dynamic agricultural industry in pursuit of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in the new cap, therefore, the transition between generations must be one of the priorities.
in writing. - we appreciate the monitoring and participation of national parliaments and parliamentarians in the negotiations on the eu's economic partnership agreements (epas) with the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific), and we believe that the political position on the epas should not be restricted to the "process" without denouncing its content. if that were to happen, it would be a blatant attempt to divert attention from the fundamental issue. and the key point is that the proposed 'epa' aims to establish neocolonial relations by establishing trade liberalization agreements, on the basis of which the eu, the great powers and their major financial and economic groups intend to force these countries to open their markets, sell their goods and services, exploit their raw materials, impose an export-oriented production model, alienating their sovereignty and thus conditioning their development according to the interests of the eu. it's in the dna of capitalism... they "are like winds" of capitalist accumulation for the overwhelming majority of mankind to "reap the storms" of price increases, unemployment, poverty, famine... for all these reasons, we must say no to the epa and to neo-colonialism.
in writing. - while not ignoring some of the positive aspects of the report voted on today, concerning the provision of information or the facilitation of certain banking procedures for consumers, it does not fail to place access to these services within the framework of a liberalised financial market, the aim of which, by its nature, is the pursuit of higher profits and not consumer protection. that is why we abstained. it is not enough to ensure the right to a bank account. we must ensure that no fees or other penalties are charged to customers for any and all services, particularly and most severely hitting the financially weak, those with accounts with lower balances and movements, or simply because they hold bank accounts. it is essential to ensure the public service that also exists in the financial sector, without which we will have worsening social inequalities, dramatically affecting people with fewer financial resources, social solidarity institutions and other social organisations, including micro and small enterprises.
in writing. − the liberalisation of retail financial services in the single market is the latest proposal from the european commission following the liberalisations envisaged in the lisbon strategy, thus attempting to take a further step towards the full liberalisation of services in the european union. in this way, and following other initiatives, it proposes the liberalisation of different retail financial services, including banking, insurance and pension products, in an attempt to remove what it considers to be remaining obstacles, using the old arguments of lower prices and greater choice for consumers, when experience itself shows exactly the opposite. it is the big companies that progressively increase their profits at the expense of more expensive services charged to consumers. even if we welcome the approval of the amendment proposed by our group in defence of the marketing of savings and old age pension products, which should be treated with particular caution, since consumer decisions in this area are generally of great importance and are normally taken only once in a lifetime, the truth is that the majority of the report is negative. that is why we are voting against it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a kind of ritual every year, before or after the summer: the subject of fires is on our political agenda. but the issue is becoming more serious, because natural disasters are linked to climate change. now, as extreme weather events tend to worsen, scientists warn of more frequent and more intense natural disasters - more severe and recurrent periods of extreme drought, more severe and destructive floods, more frequent periods of intense heat, more violent, larger, and more difficult to combat wildfires. in 2006, the european parliament adopted three reports on this subject, and in one of these reports by the rapporteur of the committee on the environment, the commission was proposed to present a directive on fires. i ask the commission: in view of what is happening and in view of the need for an integrated approach to this matter - that is, we cannot dissociate climate change policy from civil protection policy - i ask the commission whether there is no justification for a fire directive in this context. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and all of this is connected, too. for example, biomass must be harnessed to clean up forests, preventing fires, and at the same time used to produce energy. and on the other hand, it also compensates for not using the cereals for biofuels.
mr president, commissioner, i note that the report we are discussing today expressly mentions the fight to eradicate poverty, and not just the fight against poverty, as has been proposed. i am therefore pleased that my observation has worked and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou, for that. the european union has accustomed us to reacting very quickly, in a spirit of great solidarity, for example in aid to victims of natural disasters around the world, but it continues to show great hesitancy in aid to victims of economic and social disasters within the union itself. i say this because i find it difficult to understand that in a report dealing with the subject of poverty, there is no reference to the increase in food prices. this lack of reference shocks me, because we all know that the poorer a family is, the greater the percentage of its budget devoted to the purchase of foodstuffs. in this connection, i think it would make some sense to mention, for example, the recent commission communication on the price increase for these products. on the other hand, i also believe that we should not restrict the fight to eradicate poverty to the territory of the union alone. this is a fight that knows no boundaries; we are talking about values that are essential to human dignity. europe has always been defined more by its radiation towards the world than towards itself. in the 21st century, of all the tasks that the european union can perform for the good of humanity, the fight to eradicate poverty will perhaps be the noblest of all. and so i hope that 2010 will be a year of strong mobilization for this cause.
mr president, commissioner špidla, ladies and gentlemen, it seems absolutely essential that the inalienable rights of the most socially vulnerable groups be recognised, and that the practical recognition of these rights requires a strong involvement of the social, public and private actors. the defence of social cohesion in its various dimensions must be ensured by the commitment of the union and the member states to eradicating poverty and combating social exclusion by promoting concrete actions at various levels. we also need, commissioner, a complete and realistic monitoring of poverty and social exclusion, and for this we need reliable and comparable indicators, showing the evolution of the different social, economic and cultural dimensions of this phenomenon. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. mr president, after congratulating the rapporteur, i would like to conclude by saying that 2010 must be particularly effective in combating poverty and social exclusion, and also give this fight the much-needed visibility.
it is not enough to devise a european year against poverty when we have some 20% of the population of the european union at risk of poverty. what is happening with the worsening of social inequalities, the increase in the number of workers with precarious and low-paid work that increases the number of people in poverty, the increase in fuel and food prices requires other policies to ensure the social inclusion of children, women and families. measures are needed to give value to work, to increase employment with rights, to guarantee quality public services, decent housing and public and universal social security. it is therefore urgent to adopt a european strategy of solidarity and social progress, replacing the neoliberal policies of the lisbon strategy and the stability pact, so that we do not reach 2010 with even more poverty than we have today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive deficit. - as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i insist on the need to support rural areas, including mountain areas, where women play a central role and whose work must be valued, also guaranteeing them a decent income. productive, well-paid activities and quality public services need to be maintained to retain young people and prevent the desertification of rural areas. particular attention must be paid to family farming and small and mediumsized farmers, in particular through the review of the common agricultural policy now under way, to make it fairer, to combat absenteeism, to support agricultural production. i also stress the need to support all disadvantaged regions, areas with permanent structural disadvantages, the outermost regions and areas affected by industrial conversion, relocation or closure of enterprises, in order to strengthen economic and social cohesion and the social inclusion of vulnerable communities and groups.
madam president, mr barrot, ladies and gentlemen, do we need a european approach to these matters or not? we all say that. how do we approach this issue? there's a large majority in this house saying that we have to regulate legal immigration and we have to fight illegal immigration. a return policy is an essential part of this strategy, as commissioner barrot has already mentioned. we have a minimum standards directive. do we want better? do we want better standards? we would all like to see better standards, but we have had to deal with the council's intransigence, and so the political question is: is it better to have these minimum standards or no standards at all? my answer is that i think it is better to have these minimum standards, and i congratulate mr manfred weber on his work and the negotiation he has carried out. i would like to give two concrete examples: the ban on readmission, which is set for five years. others would certainly like to see other deadlines, but today there are member states which have no limitations at all, such as austria, denmark or france. the case of the arrest... nine member states have no maximum period of detention. only six have shorter deadlines than those provided for in this directive. one of those six is portugal, my country, which has two months and has already stated that it will keep the two months. in other words, it does not intend to take advantage of the directive to lower standards. finally, madam president, i would like to stress what commissioner barrot has already said about children. we must be particularly careful and ensure that the directive is applied in a humane way.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after its creation, the euro is an undeniable success and is today one of the pillars of citizens' confidence in the european project. i therefore welcome the process of enlargement of the euro area. the commission has already taken similar decisions in respect of other states and will now extend it to slovakia. however, as we mark the 10th anniversary of the euro, we must incorporate the lessons of the journey, lessons on the sustainability of the process and the impacts on real convergence associated with the single currency. there may be room for progress in the application of the accession criteria and the sustainability and robustness of the process for old and new members deserve reflection. in the case of slovakia, the 17% revaluation of its currency, although planned and in accordance with the treaty criteria, has some significance. these questions deserve, as i said, a serious debate in which the european parliament must have an active voice, and the socialist group wants the euro to be more than a factor of financial stability. it must also be an instrument for real convergence, employment and progress in the union. we propose that in the context of the debate on emu@10, the celebration of europe at 10, we take up this debate in a different way. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and to acknowledge and welcome the extraordinary efforts made by slovakia, its government and the social partners and the success they have already achieved. i hope that you will succeed in your future and forthcoming participation in the single currency project, and i wish you well in that regard.
in writing. − this proposal on the organisation and exchange of criminal records information between member states aims to improve communication between judicial authorities. it is important to ensure that extracts from criminal records are easy to understand and that the information contained therein is used in the most appropriate way. i therefore support the excellent report by mr diaz de mera and the amendments proposed, particularly in relation to data protection. it is essential that a general set of data protection principles should apply and be taken into account when collecting, processing and transmitting data. furthermore, the authorities responsible for data protection should be informed on a regular basis of the exchange of personal data carried out under this framework decision. it is also important that this system works effectively and becomes a useful tool for preventing and combating crime, including sexual crime. in order to ensure greater protection for children, for example, it is essential that schools can have access to information about their staff or potential candidates, if they have criminal records relating to crimes against children.
in writing. − the transfer of information extracted from the criminal records of citizens from one member state to another must be carried out on the basis of (bilateral) cooperation established between the parties involved. the aim of this initiative is to improve communication between judicial authorities and to ensure that requests from member states for criminal records of citizens of other member states are answered 'correctly, fully and exhaustively'. we disagree, however, with the harmonization of judicial laws and the adoption of common procedures, in particular with regard to the obligation to transmit 'all information on convictions against their nationals' or the obligation to 'preserve and update all information received' and with the harmonization of procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. we recognize the need for mechanisms for the reciprocal transmission of criminal record information between different member states, but this should be done on a case-by-case basis and within a framework of cooperation between them.
in writing. − this regulation aims to ensure a high level of protection against counterfeiting and falsification of the euro by defining the measures necessary for its protection by means of checks on banknotes and coins to verify their authenticity and fitness for circulation. according to the latest statistics, in 2007, some 561 000 counterfeit notes and 211 100 counterfeit coins were withdrawn from circulation. the european central bank and the commission respectively having established the definitive procedures to be used for detecting counterfeit notes and coins, it became essential to amend the 2001 regulation, as the institutions involved in the supply of currency to the public now had the tools they needed to carry out this control. i also welcome the express obligation on credit institutions and other relevant institutions to check the authenticity of the banknotes and coins they receive before putting them back into circulation. at the same time, they should make the necessary adjustments to their internal procedures and modernise their equipment. it is also important that the authenticity of the euro is guaranteed in member states which are not part of the euro area but where it circulates as a currency of transaction, although the control methods cannot be applied in the same way and specific verification procedures should therefore be established.
in writing. - this draft council decision, which was drawn up at the request of the court of justice, is designed to introduce into the rules of procedure of the court of justice a provision on the linguistic regime applicable to the review procedure, in accordance with article 64 of the statute of the court of justice. the procedure for review by the court of justice of decisions of the court of first instance is provided for in article 225 (2) and (3) of the ec treaty and in article 140a (2) and (3) of the eaec treaty where the court of first instance rules on appeals against a decision of a judicial panel. the statute of the court of justice provides for the possibility of re-examination in cases where the questions referred for a preliminary ruling fall within the jurisdiction of the court of first instance. this possibility has not yet been verified. however, the court considered it necessary to amend its rules of procedure in order to be able to apply the language arrangements to this new reassessment procedure. the language of the case will be the language of the decision of the court under review, which we think is correct.
in writing. - i voted in favour of caroline jackson's recommendation for second reading on the revision of the waste framework directive, as i considered that this proposal should contribute to reducing the environmental and socioeconomic impacts resulting from waste management, taking into account that the reduction, prevention, reuse and recycling of waste should be a priority throughout the european union. i voted in favour of amendment no 82, because i advocate more ambitious waste recycling targets for all member states, in order to ensure an effective european waste prevention policy.
in writing. - the european parliament insists that the council accept amendments already adopted at first reading. the main changes were the introduction of recycling and waste prevention objectives and the establishment, as a general rule, of a five-stage waste hierarchy. the council has deleted all references to targets and the rapporteur has reinstated parliament's amendments, presenting them in a modified form. the rapporteur believes that it would be wrong to miss this opportunity to ensure that the directive in question does not simply present a series of definitions. it wants to see a real link between the directive and the recycling and prevention objectives set out in the thematic strategy on waste prevention and recycling. one of the important aims of the directive is to establish a clear distinction between recovery and disposal of waste, because the judgments of the court of justice have cast doubt on this issue. in any case, it seems to us that waste reduction, recycling and recovery should be the priorities. but it is very doubtful that co-incineration is considered a method of recovery and therefore a profitable industry. because if that's the case, who's going to reduce production, increase recycling and recovery?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading by mrs anne laperrouze on environmental quality standards for water, since the good chemical status of surface water in the european union is an indispensable condition for the protection of human health and the environment. this directive is positive in that it sets limits on the concentration in water of certain pollutants and substances harmful to health and clarifies the obligations of the member states with regard to transboundary pollution.
in writing. the amendments adopted improve the council's proposal somewhat. the proposal arises from an obligation in the directive establishing a framework for community action in the field of water policy, and there are aspects of it with which we disagree. this is the case with the polluter pays principle, which can only end up defending those who have the money to pay for pollution. it is enough to pay and then create clean industries to continue the profitable business at the expense of the pollution that, however, they have been allowed to create, eventually destroying rivers, forests, etc. we consider it essential to act in the area of pollution prevention. but we know that the framework directive, in article 16, lists different obligations for the commission to submit proposals, namely specific measures against water pollution by certain pollutants or groups of pollutants which pose a significant risk to the aquatic environment or, through this, the establishment of a list of priority substances and, among these, priority hazardous substances and the setting of quality standards for concentrations of priority substances in surface water, sediments or biota. we also know that the council has not met the expectations of the european parliament in the reclassification of certain priority substances into priority dangerous substances and other important areas. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − as veterinary medicinal products used for therapeutic treatment and welfare of animals intended for human consumption may lead to the presence of residues of these products in animals intended for human consumption, it is necessary to carry out a risk assessment of the safe residue limit of all pharmacologically active substances contained in veterinary products. the commission's proposal to repeal regulation no 2377/90 aims to resolve the difficulties encountered in applying the existing legislation. alternative ways of achieving a high level of consumer protection are now presented, together with the continued availability and development of veterinary medicinal products for the european market and the smooth functioning of intra- and extra-community trade in food of animal origin. the rapporteur also points out that, as the ultimate aim is to protect human health, a more coherent approach is needed to the risk analysis and control of residues of pharmacologically active substances which may appear in foodstuffs produced in or imported into the european union.
in writing. - although we know that a year of action against poverty is not enough to ensure that the right measures are taken, we voted in favour of the report, trying to at least make the problem more visible. but at the same time we are warning of the seriousness of what is happening and of the consequences of the measures which continue to insist on the liberalization and privatization of essential public sectors and services, on the deregulation of labour, on precarious and low-paid work, on the increase in the prices of essential goods, which is contributing to the increase in profits and speculative gains of economic and financial groups, at the expense of greater poverty. that is why, at the same time as this approval, we insist on breaking with the neoliberal policies of the lisbon strategy and the stability pact, and we demand other policies to ensure the social inclusion of children, women, workers and their families. we need measures that give value to work, increase employment with rights, guarantee quality public services for all, decent housing, a public and universal social security, an agricultural policy that promotes production and the income of those who work the land and guarantees fishermen a decent income.
in writing. − the growing concern about unemployment, the increase in essential goods and fuels across the continent is a serious reason to tackle the problem of poverty and social exclusion, which affects about 16% of the population. i welcome the work of the rapporteur, the chairman of the intergroup on the family and child protection, of which i am vice-chairman, and with whom i share a particular concern for those who are most exposed to this scourge and who have the greatest difficulty in overcoming it. i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the outermost regions of the community. the european commission's proposal suggests that we can expect greater public and private, individual and community awareness of this phenomenon and a commitment by the union and the member states to seek solutions which must take as their cornerstone the intrinsic and inalienable dignity of every human being. the lisbon strategy aimed to assert europe's global competitiveness by ensuring social cohesion and focusing on employment. despite its failure, i hope that 2010 will help to raise europeans' awareness of the need for greater social cohesion. i voted yes.
in writing. − the european parliament decided to support the position of the commission and the council on slovakia's wish to adopt the single currency on 1 january 2009, although it expressed some concerns about the discrepancies between the commission's and the ecb's convergence reports on the sustainability of inflation. it is also interesting that the report expresses its concern at what it considers to be a lack of support for the euro among slovak citizens. it called on the slovak authorities to intensify the public information campaign to explain what it considered to be the benefits of the single currency, while urging all necessary measures to minimise price increases during the transition period. once again, it is a pity that we cannot know exactly what the majority of slovak citizens think about everything that is happening, in particular their accession to the euro. that is why we abstained. the consequences in portugal are well known and deserve our clear opposition.
in writing. - i regret that the proposals which we put forward and which the committee on agriculture adopted, in my opinion, were not adopted in plenary, in particular on the need to revise the cap to reverse the objectives of its previous reforms, which were responsible for the loss of income of small and mediumsized farmers, absenteeism and abandonment of agricultural activity, favouring only the large landowners. i also regret that no attention has been paid to maintaining quality public services in rural areas, including mountain and outermost areas, in order to combat isolation, to ensure individual access to education, health, transport and communications, culture and a decent life for farmers and their families. finally, i also regret that they did not include in the final resolution the need to strengthen support for farmers' associations, cooperatives, cooperative wineries and other local institutions in the fields of craft and other complementary activities in agriculture, in order to facilitate the outflow of production and the creation of local markets, and to strengthen the link between producer and consumer.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. - does it not emphasize that regional policy is an indispensable instrument for promoting economic and social cohesion, whose priority objectives are to reduce regional disparities, promote real convergence and stimulate growth and employment, and also to redistribute and offset the costs of the single market, economic and monetary union (emu) and the liberalization of international trade for the less developed regions? - does the commission not agree that it is necessary to support the less-favoured regions, the areas with permanent structural handicaps, the outermost regions and areas affected by industrial conversion, relocation or closure of firms in order to strengthen economic and social cohesion and the social inclusion of vulnerable communities and groups? or when:- refuses to stress the crucial importance of public services in economic and social cohesion and to state that the proximity factor is essential to ensure the accessibility and availability of these services to the entire population?
in writing. − cohesion policy is an eu priority with a substantial budgetary weight - 1/3 of the eu budget. it is based on the principle of solidarity and aims to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between the member states and their 268 regions. despite everyone's best efforts, the asymmetries persist. there are growing indications that the most underdeveloped regions continue to struggle to break out of the cycle of poverty. in particular, we are surprised by the growth of vulnerable groups, given the investments in these regions. we also know that the transition from poverty to social exclusion and segregation can be rapid. this question seems to be increasingly rooted in spatial and territorial development itself. so we need relevant information to solve a problem that is hidden behind several layers of exclusion -- for example, long-term unemployment often leads to a negative impact on the ability to cope with social and economic difficulties. i believe that it is essential to tackle urgently the interaction between territorial development and the phenomenon of exclusion in order to achieve the objective of sustainable development, thus making more effective use of the existing financial instruments to combat the asymmetries that still exist.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the resolution 'once again calls on the commission to act in accordance with the main objective of the epas, namely to advance regional integration and strengthen the economic position of the acp countries and, in this context, to strengthen in particular the position of the west african countries', i.e. to try to sell 'cat for a hare' to these countries. the commission also stressed the need to ensure that the fishing fleet was not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels, and that the fishing fleet was not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the regional integration of crossborder electricity markets must be seen not only in the context of the current phase under discussion, but also in the context of the creation of the single european electricity market. on the other hand, the whole of the energy question in the european framework deserves a broader approach with a different perspective for the future. hence the initiative we took in the stoa panel of this parliament, setting energy scenarios for the next decades with a baseline in 2030. parliament and some parliamentary groups are largely divided on the question of unbundling between energy transmission networks and energy companies. this is sometimes more relevant in national situations than in political and strategic choices. but ladies and gentlemen, i should like to be very clear on this point. i am personally in favour of a clear separation between the networks/companies operating the electricity network and the company or entity managing the networks. i believe that this is the most beneficial solution for consumers and that it guarantees the possibility of creating a genuine internal market in electricity, which should be one of our objectives as members of parliament and as european citizens.
i thank commissioner barrot not only for his reply but also for the detailed information he has given. there are two points i would like the commissioner to clarify for me. of course, cooperation with third countries is very important, and we are also very interested in developing pilot projects with third countries, which i know is on the commission's agenda. we would like to know whether there are any countries in north africa which are covered by pilot projects of this kind, and which the commissioner has mentioned. i would also like to ask the commissioner to tell us about the announced european border surveillance system, eurosur, which is complementary to frontex, which is important and necessary, and the state of development of this eurosur project.
this is an area where, as we know, there is a potential conflict between fundamental rights, respect for fundamental rights and security. but it also seems to me that this is an area where cooperation is very much needed. i would ask the commissioner what the level of cooperation is in the implementation of the directive as regards data retention between the national data protection commissions. in each member state there are specialised national committees, and it seems to me that it is the commission's role to promote and stimulate this cooperation between the respective committees. what about this, commissioner?
madam president, commissioner, i have been a lawyer for 17 years and i am therefore well aware of the state of justice in europe, which is generally characterized by slowness, by great slowness. this is something we all have to overcome. the european arrest warrant is very important, very important indeed. and it is very important that the member states understand and internalize this importance. we know that the commission has no power to impose sanctions, but it can encourage and encourage them. i fully support my colleague's words, but there is still one very important aspect, mr commissioner, which is probably in your hands, and that is to promote cooperation between the judicial and police authorities. it is very important that judicial and police cooperation be genuinely promoted in the member states and between the commission and the european institutions.
i understand the need to improve trade relations with the united states and in this respect i welcome the efforts which the commission has been making in this direction. but there are limits that cannot be crossed, and one of those limits is the protection of the legitimate interests of european producers and consumers. and i think that in this particular case we are faced with a situation where those limits are clearly being exceeded. there are two different and even contradictory views on the question of health and the environment. from a european perspective, there is a central concern in ensuring safety throughout the food chain. from the american perspective, there is a concern only to deal with the matter at a late stage in the process. and we cannot renounce our convictions and our habits and our standards in this matter, and we must not only seek to ensure that they are respected at the european level, but we must also seek to project them at the international level. and the european union will be in a very bad position to set its standards internationally if it does not guarantee its own protection within europe. and that is why i think it is essential in this case to stress the need to express a clear opposition to the commission's proposal in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but they also concern european producers, because european producers have been obliged to comply with these standards and have had to make significant investments in recent years to ensure that these requirements are met. and now, from one moment to the next, they would be completely unable to resist this competition on this plane. and that is why, in the name of fair and healthy competition, we believe that the european union should be very concerned about protecting european producers themselves. and it is in this perspective, without calling into question the overall effort to improve the trade relationship with the united states (which is vital for the european union), that i consider this proposal to be a bad proposal and, of course, i support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. in the aftermath of the no vote in ireland's referendum on the lisbon treaty, what eu officials here should have recognized was the obvious: the lisbon treaty is over. they know that it is enough for a member state not to ratify a treaty for it not to enter into force. those are the rules. this negative result follows two similar results in france and the netherlands on the european constitution, which the draft treaty of lisbon has taken up. but the most the president of the european commission has been able to acknowledge is that it will take time and effort to solve the problem created by the irish referendum, trying to throw the blame on ireland, not recognising that the problem is the result of the real crisis of legitimacy of the neoliberal, militarist and federalist policies that are being practiced. the european council this week must therefore decide what is essential: to end the process of ratification of the lisbon treaty, considering it dead, to launch a debate on the real reasons for the discontent of the populations and to move towards the political breakthroughs needed to deal with the existing crises, promoting more social justice, more security in employment with rights, combating profits and speculative prices, giving priority to the fight for social inclusion.
in writing. - we are facing a humanitarian tragedy in which, in addition to the suffering inflicted on families by the disappearance of their relatives, they are forced to live for decades in the anguish of not knowing their fate. for this reason, i consider it important that all interested parties continue to cooperate constructively so that the investigations being carried out to ascertain the fate of the missing persons in cyprus can be concluded as soon as possible. the role played by the cpd (committee on missing persons in cyprus) in identifying the remains found is also fundamental. since the eu financial contribution to the cpd project only covers the period until the end of 2008, i therefore support the allocation of additional financial support to the cpd so that it can continue its activity in 2009. this contribution should also enable it to strengthen its capacity, especially in the field, to hire more scientists and to obtain more equipment as needed.
in writing. - the directive on illegal immigration presents us with an unbearable dilemma: on the one hand, the absence of rules, which leaves room for many cases of inhuman treatment of immigrants. on the other hand, this directive, which means a minimal and poor consensus, is built on many vague concepts and on references to the discretion of the member states. a directive which has lost its force as a directive. the agreement does not meet the ambition of a european europe. parliament has today the unbearable task of choosing between the chaos that welcomes barbarism and a bad or incomplete rule. without the necessary noise that belongs to a real parliament. unfortunately, the council was not expected to do more. and the commission is slow to devise a european solidarity fund for the countries of origin of illegal immigration and for the southern european member states which are directly suffering from their misery. ironically, today, a sincere vote is a closed-eyed vote.
in writing. - unfortunately, the proposal to reject this shameful directive, which we support, was rejected by the majority of the ep, social democrats and the right wing. we have voted to prevent the council agreement from being maintained, which aims to create a community immigration policy which is restrictive, selective, criminalising and which does not respect the human rights of immigrants. other unacceptable aspects of this directive include the possibility of (administrative) detention of immigrants for a maximum of 18 months; detention of families, even with minors; expulsion of minors without their being handed over to a family member or a legally designated guardian; and limiting the entry into eu countries for a period of up to five years of an immigrant who is expelled. if the eu institutions want to promote action on immigrants, they suggest that member states ratify the un convention on the protection of the rights of all migrants and members of their families. the dignity of the human person cannot be called into question by requiring that he be protected and that his rights be recognised, regardless of his documentary status, and not by implementing policies which violate human rights and criminalize men and women who are merely seeking work and, in many cases, the elementary right to life.
in writing. − an area with shared external borders and internal borders removed has to harmonise some rules on the entry, movement, stay and exit of third country nationals. a prosperous economy and a welfare state with high levels of protection - even compared with neighbouring countries - must establish rules and conditions for the entry of third country nationals. it is therefore important to regulate and to achieve some consistency between the rules of the different areas of the common border. and to do so with the understanding that immigration is a good, an asset to the countries that receive it and a potential asset to the countries of origin, provided it is regulated and legal. and also knowing that humanity in welcoming people in need will be a sign of civilization that we cannot abdicate. the main points of this report deserve my vote in favour, not least because, by not forcing us to reduce our guarantees, it imposes them, even if insufficiently, where they are absent. finally, understanding the debate that has been going on, i think there is one element that has been overlooked. the fate of immigration, especially intra-european immigration, is changing. given that migration flows are one of the most revealing economic indicators, this data deserved more attention.
in writing. - it is interesting to note that in this third package of liberalisation of the electricity sector they continue to use the same arguments, forgetting that they are increasingly unable to control the action of economic and financial groups acting on the market, they impose their rules, raise prices, lay off workers, increase the precariousness of work and increasingly fail in the public service responses they should perform. while it is true that without an operational electricity and gas market, the european union will find it increasingly difficult to ensure security of supply, the sustainability of a low-carbon energy market and global competitiveness, the truth is that this will only be possible if there is a strong public sector. but what you're proposing is the exact opposite. they are insisting on further liberalization and the destruction of what is left of this public sector in some countries. then, to try to cover the sun with a sieve, they talk about a consumer letter. we'll see about your application. in any case, the main issue is the liberalization of the sector, and our final vote could only be against it.
in writing. - my vote on this report could only be in favour. saying yes to all efforts to liberalise the electricity market means saying yes to a fairer, more competitive and more transparent market. but it is not just the goodness of the report, which puts the consumer at the heart of the matter, that captivates me. with the increase in energy prices and the lack of competition on national markets, there is a danger that more citizens will be excluded from access to energy. i therefore share the social concerns expressed, as for the first time the concept of energy poverty is defined, drawing attention to the importance of member states developing national plans that include all citizens. in the current circumstances of national energy markets within the eu, it is not acceptable for the same company to be both the owner of the electricity network and also responsible for the transport of electricity, thus exercising a de facto monopoly, which could block access to the market to new, in many cases more competitive, operators. the document thus boldly assumes that the level of transparency and competition in the energy sector must be increased, effectively protecting the consumer from the consequences of a closed and closed market.
in writing. - my vote on this report could only be in favour. saying yes to all the efforts to liberalize the electricity market means saying yes to a fairer, more competitive and more transparent market. but it is not just the goodness of the report, which puts the consumer at the heart of the matter, that captivates me. with the increase in energy prices and the lack of competition on national markets, there is a danger that more citizens will be excluded from access to energy. i therefore share the social concerns expressed, as for the first time the concept of 'energy poverty' is defined, drawing attention to the importance of member states developing national plans that include all citizens. in the current circumstances of national energy markets within the eu, it is not acceptable for the same company to be both the owner of the electricity network and the distributor of electricity, thus exercising a de facto monopoly and potentially blocking access to the market for new, in many cases more competitive, operators. the document thus boldly assumes that the level of transparency and competition in the energy sector must be increased, effectively protecting the consumer from the consequences of a closed market.
in writing. − this is another piece of the third package of measures to liberalise the eu's energy markets, following the recommendations adopted by the european parliament in june 2007. the rapporteur therefore agrees with the granting of wider and more independent powers to regulators, with increased transparency requirements in the market, with the improvement of the framework for cooperation at european level between national regulators and between transmission system operators, with the emphasis on further developing interconnection capacity between member states and with the proposal for ownership unbundling as the most effective, although not the only, means of encouraging investment and avoiding discrimination against new entrants. in other words, the european union has forced the privatisation of a sector which is strategic for economic development and now wants some intervention to avoid the serious problems created by the economic groups which have taken over the sector. the rapporteur himself therefore raises some doubts about the voluntary nature of the application of the codes and rules, arguing that they are mandatory. they just never admit that the solution was to maintain a strong public sector in the energy sector. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - this is another element of this energy package. the creation of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is part of a global strategy, defined by the european commission and the council, to liberalize and regulate the energy sector, which they have designated as the energy package. the strategy is always the same. first, they privatize the public sector. then problems arise and regulators are created, new bureaucracies, greater control by the big powers over what happens in each member state. the report also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the measures necessary to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. the imposition of standards, codes, market rules or even decisions at higher levels, serving the interests of economic groups, is a recurring argument, since the agency is a supranational institution with powers in a strategic area - such as energy - that affects horizontally all sectors of society. the consequences of interference in the political strategy and economy of each member state can be serious. it is in this context that we oppose the report.
in writing. − road safety is a priority of european transport policy, a real concern for policy-makers and a pillar for all of us as citizens in the fight against the tragedies that unfortunately happen all too often on european roads. the aim of mr ferrari's report is to strengthen community safety requirements and thus improve the safety of pedestrians. we cannot therefore hesitate to demand the utmost attention and the best instruments at our disposal to ensure safety on our roads. in particular, it is essential that legislative work continues to be carried out with the utmost rigour and that the measures adopted are duly monitored and evaluated in order to ensure that the necessary improvements are introduced in a timely and preventive manner. we recognize in this report the attempt to state ways of making up for the backlog and to assert that the proposed prevention systems are the most correct and the most convenient for the victims of motor vehicle collisions. finally, and because the devil sometimes lurks in the details, our task is to ensure, even in the most technical areas, that the legislation we produce always offers the best means of protecting our citizens.
in writing. - this report deals with some positive changes in the usual procedure between the european commission and the european parliament. accordingly, article 5a of decision 1999/468/ec, as amended, introduced the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny for measures of general scope designed to amend non-essential elements of a basic act adopted in accordance with article 251 of the treaty, inter alia, by deleting some of those elements or by supplementing the basic act by the addition of new non-essential elements. following an examination of the existing legislation and these procedures, the commission has put forward this proposal, which covers 59 legislative acts to be adapted to the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. in its decision of 12 december 2007, the conference of presidents designated the committee on legal affairs as the committee responsible for this alignment of the comitology and the specialised committees as the committees responsible for delivering opinions. the conference of committee chairs reached agreement on 15 january 2008 on the modalities of cooperation between the legal affairs committee and the other committees. the report therefore contains a limited number of amendments which were suggested by other committees in their opinions, which were received in the form of letters.
in the face of the rising fuel prices and in the light of the devastating effects of this on populations and economic activity, transport, fisheries, agriculture and industry, it is clear that the large oil companies are generating exponential net profits, mainly as a result of the practice of speculative prices based on the speculative appreciation of oil stocks, bought at lower prices. in view of these facts, measures are needed to combat this scandalous speculation, in particular with a proposal we have put forward to create a tax for each member state which would focus exclusively on speculative gains from the stock effect in order to make them revert as revenue to the states. revenue to be repaid to the various economic sectors most affected in each member state.
i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his statements in favour of the importance of nuclear energy and its absolute transparency. the numbers don't lie, oil and gas prices will continue to rise, the pressure on global energy consumption will continue to rise, our own energy needs will rise, and we cannot fail to simultaneously meet our responsibilities and the imperative to combat co2 emissions. that is why nuclear is on the agenda and we cannot avoid it. we cannot waste any relevant source of energy production in the energy basket that is clean and safe. of course we need renewables, but it's not enough. yes, we need energy efficiency, but it's not enough. yes, we need good biofuels, but not enough. and one of two things: either nuclear is bad and should be banned, or if it is not banned because it is safe, because technology and science have advanced, we should all benefit from its production. what we have to have is a vision of the future, or else we'll go from bad to worse and from worse to total disaster.
this debate is taking place because fishermen, including the portuguese, have been mobilizing for measures proposed for a long time to respond to the increase in the price of fuel, petrol and diesel and the socioeconomic crisis in the sector, in the face of the attitude of indifference, in particular from the european union. our group has tabled its own resolution, which maintains and reaffirms our proposals, some of which have long been adopted by the european parliament, and we are moving forward with new measures to meet the needs of the sector. measures to ensure support for vessels using petrol, as for diesel, the establishment of a maximum price or an additional discount for fuel, in particular 40 cents per litre, the improvement of the first sale price without repercussions on prices to the final consumer, the need for production costs to be one of the variables in the definition of guide prices, ensuring fair income for crews. decisions are needed to respond to the increase in fuel prices and the formation of the price of fish at first sale - the two main factors behind the deepening crisis facing the sector.
i think that in this crisis we have to understand that the increase in fuel prices is the catalyst for a situation which was already far from healthy and which already had many factors of great concern. it is also - and i think it is important to stress - a crisis of a european dimension, and it is not legitimate to try to respond to it at national level. thirdly, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the commission on the plan they have just presented. i think that these are appropriate measures, perhaps not yet sufficient, but they do point to the solution of the problem at its roots, the structural factors which are determining it. i hope you will continue on this path, because i think it is the best way.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the future of fisheries is threatened in two ways. on the one hand, the sustainability of resources and on the other, the survival of fishermen. and we must also secure the future in two ways. on the one hand, by limiting fishing and, on the other, by helping fishermen to survive and to fish better. it seems that the commission is finally aware of these problems, and some governments, like the portuguese, which was completely autistic on this matter, are beginning to wake up to the disaster. it is good to remember that in some countries, such as portugal, 85% of the fleet is small-scale, and of this, about half is petrol, which is why we must also think about this matter and also clarify some measures so that all are used equally and that all governments have no excuses. on the other hand, we should also consider extending some of the existing support for the merchant navy, such as the single social tax, to this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not left behind.
i would like to ask that on the 24th there should also be good news for small-scale fishing, for coastal fishing in portugal. as mr duarte freitas has already said, we hear a lot about diesel and support for diesel, but 85% of the vessels in portugal are engaged in small-scale fishing and more than half are working on petrol. they're small boats with outboard motors. they have no benefits that apply to diesel, they have been completely forgotten and it is essential that a system of a similar kind to diesel be established for petrol used in fishing. i went fishing with fishermen from esposende last friday, and i was able to witness the moment of enormous sacrifice they go through. the commission will not reach these fishermen unless it also takes measures for small-scale fishing on the 24th.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question period is now over (b6-0161/2008). the following questions were put to the council.
following the question by my colleague robert evans, i would like to know whether the council is prepared to strengthen the rights of passengers with reduced mobility in the maritime sector. i say this because the commission has advocated this possibility in the past, for example in the 2005 communication on passenger rights, and parliament has been working towards this, in particular in the context of the competences and discussions on the erika iii package.
question no 2 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0346/08) subject: common immigration policy and illegal work how does the presidency assess the progress made during the six months of its term of office towards a common immigration policy to combat illegal work?
question no 3 by marian harkin (h-0350/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: safety of patients in the workplace the eu has played an active role in promoting worker mobility for decades. does the council recognise that patient safety is an important issue which has not been properly addressed by the community directives? does the council agree that in order to ensure patient safety throughout the eu, it is necessary to set up a system for the exchange of information between member states and their healthcare professionals' protection authorities?
question no 4 by mr bernd posselt (h-0352/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: subsidiarity and eu membership in several member states, but especially in the candidate countries, political forces and the media frequently claim that the introduction of 'gay marriage' or registered partnerships, as well as the liberalisation of abortion and euthanasia, are inevitable under community law and the acquis. can the council state clearly whether and to what extent these statements correspond to reality or whether these issues are exclusively a matter of national competence or fall within the scope of the principle of subsidiarity?
question no 5 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0358/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the world food crisis the explosive rise in the price of basic food commodities such as rice, wheat, maize, etc. has led to a food crisis and social unrest in many developing countries, and there has also been a major increase in food prices in europe. what causes does the council attribute to the dramatic increases in international prices of basic foodstuffs? what measures will you take to encourage the production of commodities or, if necessary, to avoid other production (e.g. biofuels)?
question no 6 by mr jim higgins (h-0359/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: progress on road safety one of the main objectives of the current presidency of the council has been to improve road safety at council level. in this context, and as the current presidency is nearing the end of its term, can the council indicate the areas where the greatest and the least progress has been made, respectively, and the reasons for this?
question 7 is inadmissible. question no 8 by mr jörg leichtfried (h-0365/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: new tolling system in slovenia from 1 july 2008, slovenia will apply a new tolling system. after that date, for a simple car trip in slovenia, which until now cost around eur 7, drivers will have to buy a half-yearly sticker worth eur 35 (corresponding to five times the price until that date) or an annual sticker worth eur 55. this seems to be a discriminatory measure, which is clearly contrary to european principles. is the council aware of these developments? what steps does the council intend to take to counteract this measure and how can it be explained that this situation has been reached?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex).
the subject we are discussing has to do with road safety. however, this proposal for a directive has already suffered a number of accidents along the way. the committee on transport initially rejected the commission's proposal as superfluous and not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. after the council had agreed on a general approach to de-bind the annexes to the directive and restrict their application to the transeuropean road networks, it was finally possible - thanks to the efforts of the rapporteur, whom i would like to congratulate - to adopt a report in the committee on transport. the report not only relieves the text of bureaucratic constraints, but also takes into account the different levels of road safety management in different countries. the report also gives priority to the concept of exchanging good practice, always seeking better coordination of action by the union and the member states. it is therefore with satisfaction that we are debating the subject again, this time in the face of a text which offers renewed added value, which reflects the capacity to generate synergies in union action and which points us towards more appropriate solutions where the reality, as we know, is quite different. this is a clear signal to the citizens that, despite the accidents on the way, we are not stranded. in this context, it is proposed to define guidelines and best practices for all stages of road management, from road safety impact assessments to audits, network safety management and inspections. it should be stressed that the directive, as amended, will not require the adoption of technical standards or procedures. it encourages member states, through guidelines, to make the best use of the defined methodologies, even inviting them to apply them to national highways not included in the tens. mr. president, in closing, i would like to say... in 2001, the european union set an ambitious target of halving the number of deaths on european roads by 2010. we hope that this directive, together with many other initiatives already discussed and adopted here, will also help to save many lives of road users crossing the european road network.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, it is well known that sheep and goat farming is of great importance, particularly in less-favoured areas and in mountain areas, because it contributes to the establishment of populations, to the natural maintenance of less fertile areas, to the preservation of landscapes and sensitive ecosystems, and also to the prevention of forest fires, for example in my country. in addition, there is a shortfall in production in relation to consumption at eu level and the number of livestock is continuing to decline. it is therefore necessary to take measures to help improve the incomes of farmers, to increase production of meat, milk, cheese and other products, to encourage young farmers to enter the sector and to support small and mediumsized family farms. diversified support, including financial support, is urgently needed in view of the high price of production factors, the epizootic diseases that often affect these animals and the lack of technical support in several areas, including medical and veterinary support. the gap between the low prices paid to producers by intermediaries and large retailers and the very high price paid by the final consumer must be taken into account, which means that the commission and the member states must give the utmost priority to this problem of price transparency in the sector. but above all, we must encourage associations, ensure that meat, milk and artisanal cheese are sold at fair prices, and create local markets, thus strengthening the links between producers and consumers. in order to halt the decline in sheepmeat and goatmeat production in the european union since the introduction of the single payment scheme in 2003 with the reform of the cap, and the dissociation of direct payments, the new revision must change this situation by adopting the necessary measures, including extraordinary support for the implementation of the electronic identification system, which, as already mentioned, at least at this stage should be voluntary, so as not to burden producers. i also stress the importance of ensuring a supplementary payment for producers of indigenous, traditional and rare regional breeds of sheep and goats, which should be reinforced in mountain areas and in specific areas in order to preserve the biological diversity in agriculture and these animals in sensitive areas. finally, i would like to reiterate the need to support the production of traditional cheeses from the milk of these animals with diversified measures. following the artisanal processes that have come down to us today and are part of our cultural heritage, ensuring that shepherds and other producers of sheep and goat meat and milk can maintain their cheese production and direct marketing to consumers on local markets. and i thank the rapporteur for the work he has presented to us.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion, whose rapporteur i would like to congratulate, gives us an excellent opportunity to combine the best of technological developments with the most important aspect of road safety, which is safety. the development of new information and communication technologies has made it possible to achieve the political and social objective of reducing the number of victims of road accidents, the avoidable scourge of europe's roads. but if we are to take full advantage of the potential thus made available, then awareness campaigns must be equipped with concise, clear and comprehensible information about the new systems for intelligent vehicles, and must reach the widest possible audience. as regards information and communication technologies, which underpin so-called intelligent vehicle systems, it is important to ensure that the development and implementation of such systems is increasingly accepted at international level, and it remains necessary to ensure that member states and industry encourage and support investment in such systems. the choice of an integrated approach to these problems will also allow a number of common objectives in the field of safety and the environment to be taken into account, particularly as regards infrastructure or the behaviour of motorists, as many of our colleagues have already pointed out. but the truth is, not everything is going well in this process. the rate of market entry for these systems remains weak and weak. its high costs, which still today turn the safest cars into luxury cars for many, and the absence of publicity campaigns and awareness raising about its benefits prevent higher rates of market penetration. that is why it is so important to ensure the success of the negotiations on the icol system, as the commissioner has already mentioned, as the basic option for all new vehicles from 2010. this initiative alone is estimated to save up to 2,500 lives a year after its full roll-out in europe. mr president, commissioner, the objective of equipping 100% of new vehicles with an electronic stability control system from 2012, which will also save thousands of lives and countless injuries on european roads each year, is also a key element in this report. we would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether he is in a position to ensure that this objective is maintained by the planned date of 2012. once again, everyone must feel involved in the fight against road deaths in europe, in the search for effective and sustainable solutions for the application of new technologies to the road transport sector. it is therefore essential that the parties concerned coordinate their activities, that the commission and the member states support research into new information technologies and that motorists are made aware of the safety benefits of these technologies. all competing, after all, to make these familiar systems marketable and affordable in order to increase consumer demand for them.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mrs zita on her excellent report and on the publicity she has given to this initiative, encouraging the participation of stakeholders and actors. this is a serious problem. we cannot forget the 42 000 who died in 2005. i cannot forget that in my country in 1993 there were 150 deaths per million inhabitants, although the number has decreased as a result. the contribution of this report and the effort of our colleague is fundamental, and i would stress two aspects. mobility is now essential to the functioning of european society. we all depend on transport in our daily lives, and the intensity of transport and mobility is causing increasing social and environmental problems. the necessary response must therefore be given in stages, but it must be given promptly. the constraints facing the consumer and the car industry must be weighed, but they cannot prevent us from achieving the objective of safety. the second aspect is information. consumers need to be informed about infrastructure and smart cars. the information shall be clear and comprehensible and shall be given in a timely manner. the car dealers, the dealers, all those involved in this area, the member states, the regions and local authorities have a great deal of responsibility in this matter, together with the media. this is a cooperative effort which must be carried out by the european union, because we cannot achieve the final objectives alone, which is certainly the aim of the commission and the aim of our rapporteur.
in writing. − the transport of dangerous goods has been the subject of much discussion and, as a result, a clarification and simplification of safety standards has been established. the existing legislation on the transport of dangerous goods will thus, with mr liberadzki's report, send a positive signal, particularly as regards the scope of the directive, which is extended to inland waterway transport. i congratulate the negotiators on the agreement which will allow this dossier to be closed at second reading. the extension of this directive to inland navigation will involve a transitional period of two years for the adaptation of the member states. they may regulate or prohibit the transport of dangerous goods within their territory for reasons other than transport safety. it is therefore worth noting that this legislation is a sign of our efforts to make the transport of dangerous goods in the union increasingly efficient and safe, free of unnecessary bureaucracy and its increased costs or of rules which do not contribute to the efficiency of the management of the transport of this type of goods.
in writing. - despite our vote in favour, we regret that some of our proposals were not adopted, in particular the one which considered it imperative to give special attention to the most disadvantaged regions, called 'convergence', in the event of natural disasters, within the framework of the structural funds regulation, or those which stressed the importance of maintaining the eligibility of regional disasters under the european solidarity fund and of adapting it, in terms of eligible time limits and actions, to the specific nature of natural disasters such as drought and fires. but we are pleased that others have been adopted in connection with the recognition of natural disasters of a mediterranean nature, such as drought and forest fires. but mechanisms are needed to support the affected populations and reforestation, including a component for preventing further large-scale disasters, and a public agricultural insurance scheme, financed by the european union, to guarantee farmers a minimum income in public disasters such as droughts, fires and floods. a major overhaul of the common agricultural policy is needed to support small and medium-sized farmers and family farming by stimulating agricultural production, biodiversity and land use.
in writing. − we consider it necessary to promote a framework of cooperation between member states on the prevention and combating of disasters and minimising their consequences. however, among other things, we disagree with the creation of any european civil protection force (in particular with a military dimension), since the operational capabilities and means in this area should be at the disposal of the member states, those who have to ensure the means and strategies to respond (quickly) to the needs and those who know their territory best. we welcome the adoption of our proposals calling for:- the recognition of the specific nature of natural disasters of mediterranean character, such as drought and forest fires, at community level and the adaptation of community instruments in the field of prevention, investigation, risk management, civil protection and solidarity accordingly, in order to improve the response at the level of each member state; - and the need for increased community funding for prevention measures. but we regret the rejection of our proposals which: - underline the importance of maintaining the eligibility of regional disasters in the european solidarity fund; - and call for the adaptation of the european solidarity fund, in terms of deadlines and eligible actions, to the specific nature of natural disasters such as drought and fires.
in writing. - despite the positive assessment of the 40th anniversary of the customs union in the report, many productive sectors, particularly in portugal, do not share this view. on the contrary, i did. they know that the total opening up of frontiers in the name of free competition has created deeply unfair situations and aggravated structural deficits, given the unequal levels of development between the various countries. in addition to this situation of inequality in the productive forces and in the development of the productive process, other measures, policies and instruments have contributed to aggravating the situation, notably the creation of the single market, the liberalisation of international trade, the stability pact within the framework of economic and monetary union and the neoliberalism present in the so-called lisbon strategy. so although the report contains some positive proposals in the context of enhanced cooperation, the basis on which part of it is unacceptable. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - this report starts by supporting all the liberalisation packages for the electricity and natural gas markets, pushing for their privatisation, despite the fact that these are strategic sectors for development and social progress. the implementation of these packages in portugal has, as is well known, contributed to aggravating the supply problems of the population, to the increase in prices paid by consumers, and to increasing unemployment and the precariousness of work in the sector. the european commission now intends to put an end to the problems it has created with its strategy by presenting the european charter of the rights of energy consumers. despite the scarcity of rights, we do not disagree with the charter. the question is whether the economic groups which control the sector and to which community policies are increasingly subordinated, will comply with them. that is why we abstained in the final vote on this report.
in writing. - we welcome the fact that the european parliament has spoken out against the european commission's proposal to amend the marketing standards for poultrymeat, only to allow the marketing of this meat subject to antimicrobial treatment for human consumption. in practice, this proposal from the european commission is only intended to comply with the us request that the european union allow its poultrymeat production treated with chemicals or antimicrobials to be imported. the european commission is thus forgetting the precautionary principle, it is forgetting to adopt and strengthen the standards already in place at eu level in the field of food safety and hygiene, which are much higher than those used by the usa, which is simply using a cheap end-of-line solution, which now wants the eu to accept in order to sell its production to europe. we therefore hope that the council will not accept the european commission's proposal.
in writing. as we have pointed out in a press release, we do not support this resolution because it: - it does not address the immediate problem of workers' wages, it is not clear that fishermen (workers) pay for fuel and that is why the problem affects them directly (as well as the owners of the overwhelming majority of small boats); - omits the eu's inertia and refusal to take the necessary decisions; - it makes no specific proposals on the price of fuel (petrol and diesel) and on the formation of the price of fish at first sale; - does not condemn a policy which uses the increase in fuel prices to further reduce and concentrate the sector, create more unemployment, deteriorate a productive sector and worsen food and trade balances; - i know . the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. a resolution which, in line with the recent proposals announced by the european commission, and regardless of one or other aspect which, if implemented, could have positive effects on the sector, in fact encourages further the killing of vessels and offers fishermen the opportunity to abandon their profession. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
in writing. - russia is a well-known and important strategic partner of the european union, and geography makes us dependent on each other. it follows that there is a need to make use of diplomacy to find the best solutions to this unavoidable proximity. but the need to cooperate cannot impose on us a real or disguised ignorance of the serious problems russia is raising. internally, it cannot be ignored that russia is not a full democracy and is not a state of law that actually respects human rights. externally, we cannot ignore the use of energy as a weapon in external relations, in particular by promoting the disintegration of the eu in this area, the equivocal role it has played in the iranian issue, the unwillingness to force china to commit itself to human rights, among others. europe's voice on russia must be that of a serious partner, willing to collaborate but unwilling to compromise on what is fundamental in terms of democracy, human rights and security.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, which contains several important proposals for the protection of sheep and goat production, particularly in less-favoured areas and in mountain areas, although we would have liked to see it go further, particularly in the defence of indigenous breeds and the artisanal production of cheese. but it is still essential that the european commission and the council take account of these proposals which have been adopted and of the debate which took place in the plenary, where we also made our positions on this very important subject clear. with the current review of the cap, the problems created by the 2003 reform, in particular the dissociation of direct payments, need to be corrected, and i stress the importance of ensuring a supplementary payment for producers, with particular attention to indigenous breeds of sheep and goats, which should be reinforced in mountain areas and other specific areas, in order to preserve biological diversity in agriculture, to keep these animals in sensitive areas and to occupy the territory in a natural way, which is an important contribution to the protection of the environment and the prevention of forest fires in the countries of southern europe.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. this is the fundamental issue of the execution of minors for alleged crimes. let me make it clear that in many cases, for example, it is the same sex relations between minors, not even a crime, and that they lead to the death penalty and public executions, as we have already seen in films that give a hint of the regime's barbarity. but it is a barbarity that is not confined to the issue of minors, it is not confined to stoning, to the records of execution. it also goes to the external plane, it goes to terrorism. and in view of this, we must ask the european institutions once again why they insist on negotiating with the terrorist regime in tehran the condemnation as terrorism of the organizations which oppose it, as our colleague mr matsakis has often reminded us, the organization of the mujahideen of the people of iran. why, instead of condemning terrorism, instead of condemning the violation of human rights, do you negotiate in economic and commercial packages the condemnation of the victims of terrorism? this is absolutely immoral, indefensible, and this is the policy that will inevitably lead us to confrontation, to war, if we do not question it quickly. and i therefore wanted to appeal to the commission and the council to change their policy and to obey the courts and not to reward terrorism in this way.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the workers of the fapobol company who have been subject to disciplinary proceedings for being dismissed for claiming payment of wages in arrears. in an unacceptable way, the fapobol administration sent letters of dismissal, culminating in disciplinary proceedings, to workers, some of whom had been at home for more than 35 years, and including the entire union structure of the company, union leaders and delegates who had participated in a demonstration to demand the payment of salaries in arrears. we express our solidarity with all the workers and trade unionists who have been targeted by this repressive action, as well as with the union of chemical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas workers of northern portugal, and we consider that this attitude of the company, which through a persecutory attitude that violates democracy and freedom aims to intimidate workers and trade unionists, deserves to be expressly condemned here in the strongest possible terms.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, on her efforts to reach consensus with the shadow rapporteurs and on the efforts made to reach the desirable agreement between the parties. the proposal for a regulation on flavourings aims to clarify and update the rules on the use of flavourings and food ingredients with flavouring properties, taking into account technological and scientific progress in the field of flavourings, developments in food law in the european union and, at the same time, the requirements for the protection of human health. the regulation lays down general conditions for the use of flavourings or food ingredients with flavouring properties, including a clear definition of flavour, general rules for their use, labelling standards and maximum levels of substances that constitute a risk to human health. the compromise reached in this second reading process is the result of joint work between the commission, the council and parliament. several meetings were held, the most controversial points were negotiated, concessions were made on all sides. the agreement, however, reflects the principles of several amendments proposed by parliament which take into account two fundamental objectives: consumer information and the protection of consumers' interests, as well as the protection of public health. flavourings and flavouring substances must be safe and their use must not mislead the consumer. in this context, the new legislation sets maximum levels for the presence of certain substances in flavourings and food ingredients with flavouring properties that are potentially toxic and risky to human health, taking into account the scientific advice of the european food safety authority. these maximum levels do not apply to three substances: estragol, saffrol and methyl eugenol, provided that they are present in compound foods to which no flavouring has been added and only food ingredients with flavouring properties in the form of herbs and/or spices have been added. however, this exception should be reviewed if scientific evidence emerges that their consumption poses health risks. the concept of natural is still confusing to consumers, but the new proposal on the labelling of natural flavourings is more effective in meeting consumer expectations, with the use of the term 'natural' restricted to flavourings obtained from natural flavouring substances where at least 95% of the flavouring compound should be obtained from the natural source to which it refers.
mr president, parliament must give a democratic interpretation of democracy. this means that the rules of procedure are not an aseptic dictate, they must be read in the light of the moral foundation of suffrage and the principle of representation, while signifying self-legislation, the autonomy of the citizens. i would like to take a few notes on this principle. the amendment proposed by mr corbett is, in my view, in principle correct, but the reason why a group which no longer has the minimum number of members required during a parliamentary term should be retained is mainly because the democratic choice of the electors is also almost always made taking into account the position of the candidates in the european parliament's groups. it is not indifferent to the voters whether a candidate is elected to sit on the pse benches or to sit on the ppe benches. i think that this amendment should contain, instead of a discretionary power of the president of parliament, a binding power, instead of a permission, a duty, and the deadline for the continuation of the group can only, from the point of view of democracy, be precisely the deadline of a legislature. otherwise we completely subvert the principles of freedom that constitute us. the second point concerns the temptation to copy the models of the national parliaments. the models of the national parliaments are indeed models for us, but in this case we must copy them cum grano salis, with caution, because the pulverization of groups can, in european democracy, compensate for the deficit of representativeness that throws europe from crisis to crisis. the spraying here can be a compensation for the persistent divorce between european citizens and their representatives. the more plurality there is, the more intense the political struggle and game that normally leads to our consensus will be, because systematic consensus is not without controversy here either. the plurality of groups can help parliament to politicise bureaucratic europe, because a democracy is a democracy, not an order.
on behalf of the pse group. i commend the rapporteur, andré brie, for his work in seriously analysing the serious problems we face in afghanistan and, in particular, for his efforts in finding language that will allow all political groups to vote in favour of the compromise amendments. unfortunately, when the committee voted on the compromise amendments, two important ideas fell victim to the political prejudice of colleagues who prefer to ignore the problems facing the international community in afghanistan, problems horrifically illustrated by the murderous attack yesterday on the indian embassy in kabul. thus, the reference to the need for the international community to re-examine its military and civilian strategy has fallen, as has the passage that underlined the growing popular discontent with the corruption that is rampant in government institutions. i would therefore ask members to support the amendments which the pes is reintroducing with a view to rebalancing the report. how can a report from this house on afghanistan fail to mention the role of pakistan and the military regime that has ruled that country for so many years? how can we, the european parliament, ignore the secret prisons of our american allies in kabul and beyond? why do some colleagues reject legitimate criticism of the afghan judicial system? the position of the pes is clear: it is possible to support the increased presence of international troops in afghanistan and at the same time to advocate the need to review the military strategy of isaf. it is possible to be in favour of close cooperation between europe and the united states in afghanistan without turning a blind eye to the crimes committed by the bush administration in the name of the fight against terrorism. finally, it is possible to support afghan institutions while drawing attention to their serious limitations. europe can only assume a strategic role in afghanistan when it is no longer afraid to present its own vision for the future of the country. why not start here and now with this report?
madam president, we are discussing a matter of the utmost importance for the outermost regions. in the outermost regions, in the distant islands, the price of a plane ticket is the price of distance to freedom, and this is something we have to understand. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr peter liese, for his great understanding of the positions of the outermost regions, i would like to deplore the european commission's insensitivity to the reality of our regions and i would like to say that although we have a commitment which is positive, which has actually taken some steps in the direction we wanted, we consider that the matter is by no means closed. i would also like to appeal, in particular to our colleague avril doyle, who is responsible for the report we are now about to hear, to take account of the positions of the outermost regions, to bear in mind that it is not the same thing to be in a region completely removed from the continents and to be here in the centre of europe. if we do not understand this, i do not think we will be able to have good legislation and i would like to appeal to our colleague to be inspired by the spirit of our rapporteur peter liese so that we can make a positive gesture to these regions.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. we must not forget the importance of air transport for connecting the mainland and the islands so that people are not confined to their place of residence. it is therefore essential to ensure that there is at least a derogation for the outermost regions, and we therefore call for this exclusion from the application of the scheme to links between the outermost regions not only with each other but also with the mainland.
in writing. − the report is intended to follow up the 2003 protocol on strategic environmental assessment to the 1991 unece espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a cross-border context (eia protocol). the commission signed the epa protocol on behalf of the european community on 21 may 2003 at the fifth ministerial conference on the environment for europe, held in kiev, ukraine in may 2003. the objective of the epa protocol is to provide a high level of protection of the environment, including health, and to ensure the integration of environmental and health concerns into measures and instruments to promote such sustainable development. in this context, the european community intends to implement article 13 of the protocol on strategic environmental assessment in the espoo convention through the impact assessment processes set out in the impact assessment communications, which address in a balanced way the economic, social and environmental components of sustainable development.
in writing. − with the signing in october 2004 of the agreement on the accession of switzerland to the schengen acquis, it was not possible to associate liechtenstein due to the lack of an agreement on the taxation of savings (which was not concluded until a year later). given that a policy of free movement of persons between switzerland and liechtenstein has existed for several decades, it was essential to associate liechtenstein to that agreement. i therefore support this initiative, which, by means of a protocol annexed to the agreement, associates this country with schengen, which should accept and apply the entire acquis, with the exception of any provisions of a new act or measure concerning the execution of search warrants and/or the seizure of evidence in the context of investigations or proceedings for offences in the field of direct taxation (which are not punishable by deprivation of liberty under its national law). i support the rapporteur's position - ewa klamt's - that the ep should give a favourable opinion, as it did for the agreement to which this protocol is linked. it is essential, however, that the ep has access to more information on any international negotiations in progress, so that it can exercise its powers in a consistent and effective manner.
in writing. − the current regulation established a standard model visa, but did not ensure a single numbering of visas in the member states. the number is entered to identify the individual visa issued to a third-country national by one of the member states and, although there were some differences between member states, these were not relevant as the visa was only checked at the border, either visually or by optical reading. however, once the visa information system (vis) becomes operational, the external border controls should focus on the visa sticker number in combination with the fingerprints of the holder. it is therefore necessary to change the numbering of visas so that there is a single visa sticker number that can ensure that during the verification process only the relevant application file is called, in relation to which the fingerprints of the person presenting himself at the border will be verified. i therefore support this proposal to ensure a consistent and unique numbering of the visa stickers to be used in the vis, ensuring that when this visa data exchange system comes into force it can function in the most correct way, reducing the risks of improper access to personal data.
in writing. - this is a contradictory proposal, which is why we abstained. while there are some aspects which may be positive, in particular the one concerning a possible amendment to the statute of the court of justice, in order to guarantee the european parliament the right to submit its own observations to the court whenever its prerogatives are directly or indirectly called into question, so that the intervention of the european parliament, when it is not officially a party to the case, is not subject to the discretion of the court of justice, the truth is that others may simply mean a reinforcement of federalism. and in that case, we disagree. we also consider it essential that the european parliament should respect the sovereignty of the member states and therefore also of the national courts. we do, however, accept that a policy of cooperation between the european parliament and the national courts may be of interest. but we insist that it is not acceptable that such cooperation should be used to undermine national rights, including the sovereignty of national courts, and the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - there is a need to make the approval process for food additives more transparent and to strengthen consumer protection, particularly for those who are intolerant to certain substances. similarly, environmental protection should be one of the several factors to be taken into account when approving the use of an additive. as already approved at first reading, the consequences of misleading the consumer must be clarified and environmental protection included among the factors to be taken into account when approving the use of an additive. the amendments now adopted at second reading are essentially aimed at improving these aspects to be taken into account in the final text, with a view to strengthening consumer and environmental protection and clarifying the conditions for the approval of additives. from the entry into force of this regulation, food additives will have to meet these requirements.
in writing. - in this report we have attached particular importance to those aspects which claim to seek to safeguard food safety, taking into account the interests of consumers, among which is most notably the desire to purchase food as natural as possible. it is well known that not all toxicologically safe flavourings are beneficial to consumers. this is why we must guarantee the right of choice for consumers. in the context of the flavour approval process, 'reasonable technological needs' are linked to other eu strategies, notably the fight against obesity, as the addition of excessively strong flavourings can serve to hide the poor quality of prepared foods. the council and the european parliament have a different approach to the issue of certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods and the maximum levels of these ingredients set out in annex iii. we know that the principle that herb and spice producers must refute the legal presumption of harmfulness of each product separately is questionable. it would be more logical to reverse the procedure. it's a subject that's going to continue to be controversial.
in writing. - this report refers to a regulation which aims to establish standards and procedures for the authorization of food enzymes, except those which are considered food additives. the european commission notes that the industry has been pushing for harmonisation of legislation establishing a common authorisation procedure for food enzymes, as the absence of community standards in this area has given rise to unfair commercial practices. the european parliament insists on including several important amendments which it adopted at first reading of the commission's proposal for a regulation. it therefore reaffirmed its view that the precautionary principle should be at the heart of any risk assessment and should be emphasised in the proposal. it also strengthened consumer protection provisions to ensure that the use of a food enzyme does not mislead the consumer as to the nature, quality or content of a product, and this concept has been reintroduced. on the other hand, food enzymes are not, and cannot be, genetically modified microorganisms. it is also necessary to avoid that they are derived from gmos. but if it ever happens, it should be clearly identified so as not to mislead consumers. it is essential to ensure a high level of food safety.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading of the peter liese report on the inclusion of aviation in the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, because i consider it essential and urgent to limit the global temperature increase to +2°c. the aviation sector is booming - carbon dioxide emissions from aviation have increased by 87% since 1990 and are expected to double by 2020 - and measures are needed to send a clear signal internationally of the eu's commitment to combating climate change, with a view to achieving an international agreement before the copenhagen conference in 2009. the compromise also includes very positive aspects, such as the derogation scheme for the outermost regions, the use of proceeds from the auctioning of emission allowances to combat climate change and measures to combat deforestation.
in writing. - the proposal voted on in the european parliament is already a compromise, albeit an unsatisfactory one, compared with the european commission's initial proposal, which did not take account of the problems of countries in economic difficulties, in particular the outermost regions. we know that pollution must be reduced, but we must take account of the difficulties of the countries with the weakest economies. the compromise now voted does not avoid all the negative consequences of this trade, but minimises several, postponing the date of entry into force of the first ep proposal, reducing the scope of the auctions and the pressure on the weakest companies. the negotiation of an exception for the outermost regions has become a very important issue here, since the original proposal of the european commission did not, as is well known, provide for any exception for these regions, which meant that all flights originating in or destined for these regions would be covered by the general scheme. in the text finally agreed, the possibility of an exception was preserved, but its scope is not as wide as it should be. we therefore insist on the abolition of this system of trading licences not only for flights between islands but also between islands and the continent.
in writing. - we voted against this report because it is part of a central objective of atrophying the democratic and pluralist functioning of the european parliament. the majority, on the basis of a principle which is not even true - the existence of the renewal treaty - is in fact seeking to reduce the rights and to hinder the members' capacity for initiative, to increase the power of the president of the european parliament and, as a consequence, to impoverish the pluralism of parliamentary debate. this question of democratic impoverishment and the capacity of members to intervene is also clear in the establishment of guidelines on the procedure for written questions to the council and the commission. however, this decision is only one part of the more general anti-democratic line which the majority of the european parliament is following, in particular its largest political groups (epp and pse), of which another essential part is the demand for new, more restrictive criteria for the formation of political groups, which also deserves our denunciation and strong protest.
in writing. - afghanistan is today the scene of a battle for security, stability, peace and democracy, and against international islamic jihadism, which is seeking victory and is repeating in its propaganda the discourse of the beginning of the fall of the empire. that is also why the international effort, and particularly the european effort, is so important. the challenge for the allies, and in particular for all those who believe in the need to renew nato, is to resist extreme hardship and contribute with active troops on the ground - which implies the necessary reduction of caveats - because victory is essential. the future of our alliances is largely at stake there. as is the future of our peace and security. as much as the ideologues of compromise and concession may suggest it, it is not possible to ignore a threat that is directed at us by simply pretending that it is something else. the strengthening of effective military capacity in afghanistan is urgent, along with all other measures, including development aid and the promotion of the democratic rule of law. if we fail in afghanistan, we'll probably have to fight again later, but closer to home.
mr president, the most important issue being discussed here is the liberalisation of the natural gas market, putting pressure on the member states to speed up the process of privatisation of what is still public. to achieve this more quickly, they insist on the separation of ownership from the grids, without concern for energy security itself. the fact is that the results of the liberalization of the electricity market show that neither workers nor consumers have benefited from it. on the contrary, it has reduced entitlement employment and increased the prices paid by consumers. of course, the profits of the economic groups in the electricity sector have increased, but so-called energy poverty has increased, meaning that more people and households have difficulty accessing energy. so we regret that they are going down the same path as natural gas. although these are different sectors, the economic and social consequences will be the same. hence our opposition.
on behalf of the pse group. other opening up to trade and investment is a cornerstone of the construction of europe. sovereign wealth funds are an old reality. in the present context of serious financial imbalances, as has been said, its collection and the interest in its collection have increased. the opening up of strategic sectors and the provision of essential public goods to private initiative is another feature of the european union. but it is important to ensure that all operators, and sovereign funds in particular, are governed by clear and transparent rules and that their objectives are compatible with the proper functioning of markets, fair competition between operators and the protection of the rights of european citizens in the short and long term. we welcome the commission's commitment to a multilateral code of conduct under the aegis of the international monetary fund. but, as with hedge funds, as with private equity, a code of good practice is not enough. the commission is called upon to provide an autonomous and much stronger guarantee that the principles of proper transparency and governance are respected by all financial actors in the internal market, including these funds, and with european criteria not just national or international ones.
the question period is now over (b6-0168/2008). the following questions were put to the council.
question no 1 by mr claude moraes (h-0426/08) subject: horizontal directive against discrimination will the council state what measures it intends to take to promote greater equality of opportunity throughout the european union? what is the presidency's programme on equal opportunities and how does the council intend to ensure that anti-discrimination legislation is effectively applied by the member states?
question no 2 by mrs marian harkin (h-0428/08) subject: priorities of the french presidency in view of the priorities of the french presidency with regard to mobility in the field of education and lifelong learning, does the council not consider that declaring 2011 the european year of volunteering would be the ideal way for the council to promote mobility through volunteering activities for all generations across the eu?
questions 3 and 4 have been withdrawn.
question no 5 by brian crowley (h-0432/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: dissolution of the eu 10% target for biofuels a report currently under discussion in parliament (pe 405.949) calls on the eu to dilute or abandon the eu target of 10% of fuels produced from renewable sources altogether, because of its consequences for wildlife, people and global food supplies. can the council state whether the 10% target agreed in march 2007 is under threat and whether this association between rising food prices and increased biofuel production is artificial?
question no 6 by mr liam aylward (h-0434/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: mdg 2 and ilo conventions on child labour the council conclusions of last may on the rights of the child and the acceleration of the millennium development goals are particularly welcome. however, given that the council has recognised the extreme vulnerability of children exploited as labour, does the council not consider that there is a need to bridge the gap between mdg 2 and the ilo conventions on child labour? in fact, mdg 2 simply calls on states to ensure universal primary education, whereas ilo conventions set the age limit for child labour at 15 years or 14 years in some developing countries. as a result, children aged 11-12 and 14-15 are unprotected, particularly in many developing countries where the resources, and perhaps also the will, are insufficient to go beyond mdg 2 and where children are more exposed to the risk of labour exploitation.
question no 7 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0436/08) subject: establishment of offices for the recovery of assets can the council make a statement on the progress made in setting up asset recovery offices in all member states with a view to confiscating the assets of criminals in each member state?
question no 8 by eoin ryan (h-0438/08) subject: pan-european early warning system for the abduction of children what initiatives are envisaged by the presidency and the council for the creation of a pan-european early warning system for child abductions in all eu member states?
question no 9 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0440/08) subject: projects relating to the 'greater neighbourhood' in view of the fact that various bodies, including the commission itself, have been putting forward proposals for the formulation of a 'greater neighbourhood' policy which takes advantage of the exceptional geographical situation of our outermost regions and which contributes to the development of the neighbouring countries of west and southern africa and the caribbean, does the council consider that it is possible to take concrete action and draw up plans for its implementation?
question no 10 by mr robert evans (h-0442/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: sri lanka the council is aware of the escalation of violence in sri lanka and the growing likelihood of a full-scale civil war. recently, 11 people were killed and more than 70 were injured when a bomb exploded on a crowded suburban train. two other people were killed in an explosion in the capital, colombo, and tamil television journalist paranirupasingam devakumar was killed in an assault on his way home from work, making him the ninth journalist to be killed in sri lanka in the past two years. the council is also aware that sri lanka's candidacy for re-election to the united nations human rights council has been rejected, which shows the clear rejection by the members of the united nations of a country which many consider to have abused its position on the council not to promote human rights but rather to protect itself from international scrutiny based on abundant documented evidence of human rights violations committed not only by the ltte but also allegedly by the government security forces themselves. in view of this situation, does the council not agree that the european union should be at the forefront of efforts to find a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict? what approach does the council intend to take to this end and how will this affect the negotiations with sri lanka regarding its right to benefit from gsp+ (system of generalized preferences) status?
question no 11 by avril doyle (h-0445/08) subject: council priorities for the climate package what are the ambitions of the french presidency with regard to the climate and energy package? what progress has the council made so far? what is the timetable envisaged by the presidency for this matter?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question no 37 will not be taken because its subject is already on the agenda for the next partsession.
madam president, commissioner, at a time when the air transport sector is going through one of its most difficult crises as a result of the unstoppable increase in fuel prices, it is essential that we invest our attention and our legislative effort in measures which help to maintain the strength and dynamism of this sector. in this context, the commitment to improving the common rules for operating air services in the community had to cover a number of key points: first, the strengthening of the requirements for the financial capacity of airlines, given the potential link between the financial soundness of carriers and safety; second, transparency in the pricing of tickets, with clear indication, in addition to the basic fare, of taxes, fees and other charges; and, finally, the unequivocal definition of public service obligations, including the conditions arising from the specific constraints of the outermost regions and the need to safeguard competition. the rapporteur has proposed that we vote on the council's common position. this means that, in addition to the points already mentioned, the main objectives identified by parliament at first reading have been achieved. the text does indeed formulate and define correct rules on the issue of operating licences, aircraft leasing, public service obligations and traffic distribution rules, strengthening the internal market and passenger rights. it also gives the commission the right to negotiate intra-community traffic rights with third countries and strengthens the social rights of those working in the sector. i would therefore like to congratulate mr degutis on his work on this dossier and support the adoption of the council's common position without further amendments. the two arms of the legislature worked together and reached a relevant agreement. will the result help to overcome the crisis? i would like to hear the commissioner's answer. and will it contribute to a better and more efficient internal aviation market for the benefit of the economy and citizens? we hope so.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr juncker, mr trichet, i would like to say first of all that the first objective of this report was to analyse the activity of the european central bank during 2007, but it is obvious that the discussion in the committee on monetary affairs on this subject could not be excluded from analysing the future challenges facing the monetary policy of the european union and its regulators. in the context of the powers conferred on the european central bank by the treaties, we must acknowledge the work done in 2007, which, although it did not prevent the monetary turbulence and the consequent crisis of economic growth that we are experiencing, allowed us to mitigate many of the negative consequences of the current economic situation. the main question, however, in my view, is whether or not we are in a position, with the current policies and instruments at the disposal of the european union, to overcome the serious crisis in the world economy and its consequences in europe once and for all. of course, a crisis is not necessarily a catastrophe. but a crisis is not a catastrophe unless we have a correct vision of the future, free from outdated orthodoxies and focused on the new nature of the phenomena we have to face and overcome. it is not acceptable to defend the non-compliance with the rules in force, but we must see to it that proposals are put forward in the current political framework to change the current situation. the report by mr olle schmidt sets out some ways forward and points to some ways back. first of all, greater cooperation between central banks and supervisory authorities in the fight against deregulation and financial regulation, the creation of a global framework for financial supervision for which the ecb is responsible, greater coordination of economic policies at the level of the eurogroup, the commission and the central bank, greater transparency of decisions and above all the creation of a channel that makes the measures taken by the european central bank understandable to public opinion, structural reform of the governance of the bank itself, but above all the need for all action on interest rates to be taken very carefully, avoiding speculative interventions and inappropriate discounts from the markets, so as not to jeopardise investment policy, job creation, structural reforms and economic growth. but apart from all this, which is already a lot, we must also face the fact that we are facing a difficult economic and social crisis, the full extent of which we have not yet grasped and the full extent of which is still far from being reached. let us not be deluded, the remedies we know will be unable to solve the problems of today. to recognize this situation is not to retreat but to show common sense. we are probably on the threshold of political solutions to solve the problems, which will surely not be the end of the world, much less the end of history. we can only ask the ecb for cooperation, competence, transparency and flexibility in respect of its powers and never beyond the exercise of those powers.
madam president, it is clear from this debate that the so-called fight against inflation is really a fight against wage increases. the main monetary policy makers in the european union, in order to justify the ninth increase in the ecb's reference rate in just over two years, only talk about the need for wage moderation and forget about the scandalous increases in the profits of large companies, economic and financial groups, which are generally around or above 30% per annum, while wage increases in several countries cannot even match the rate of inflation. this is the case in portugal, where there are serious losses of purchasing power for most workers and pensioners, whose wages and pensions are among the lowest in the european union. the total social insensitivity of these monetary policies, with high interest rates and the overvaluation of the euro, is aggravating social and territorial inequalities, contributing to the increase in poverty, to the growing difficulty of micro and small entrepreneurs, to hamper economic growth, especially in countries with weaker economies. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next partsession.
commissioner špidla, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need to coordinate social security at european level. that is why we are having this joint debate. after welcoming the work of the rapporteurs, emine bozkurt and jean lambert, i would like to stress the following points: the absolute need to ensure flexibility in the transition from one national system to another, not only in the public sector but also in the private and mutual systems of tomorrow. this flexibility will contribute to greater mobility and freedom of movement for workers throughout europe. in this context, mr president, it is important to make progress towards the aggregation of the amounts discounted in the different member states, just as it is important to ensure that the system of social security coordination never leads to a reduction of citizens' rights, but rather to their strengthening. the simplification of rules is also essential if citizens are to feel that the institutions of the european union are becoming closer to them in terms of principles and language, and if they are to feel that europe is theirs. we know that it is not easy to manage social security systems, but it is essential that the citizens of europe understand the criteria by which we are guided. i would also say that this coordination will certainly go hand in hand with a more thorough mutual understanding of the different social security systems, because what we want is to move towards better social security for all europeans, towards social security that takes advantage of what is best done in the various countries, today towards coordination, tomorrow, who knows, towards harmonization.
in writing. - while it is not possible to highlight all the important points in this report, i would stress that after the irish people's resounding no to the lisbon treaty, this parliament continues to pretend and act as if nothing had happened. on the contrary, it reveals the shameless ambition of the commission in this report. the ep majority considers, among other things: - that each country's positions, i.e. its external policies, should be linked to a political platform established in the eu; - that the eu should consider reorganising and expanding its offices in the un, given 'the increased powers and responsibilities' which its 'representatives will exercise in the light of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon'; - that the operational nature of the eu's observer status at the united nations should be defined as soon as possible; - that member states should agree 'on a more coherent position on the reform of the un security council, i.e. one which - while maintaining the ultimate aim of securing a permanent seat for the eu within a reformed un - aims, however, to increase the eu's weight'. federalism, under the domination of the great powers, with germany at the head, in one of its clear and ambitious expressions...
in writing. - the theme of un reform is worryingly recurrent. the need for reform has been recognised for several years, but the impossibility of reform has also been recognised for several years. now, this impasse is doubly serious. on the one hand, because it aggravates the factors of failure of the organization, and they are many; on the other hand, it encourages the emergence of a sustained and justified discourse on the need for alternatives. it is true that closer cooperation between democracies is an idea to be promoted - even if this does not imply full adherence to the league of democracies project - but realism is also a good adviser. and for that reason, the adequacy of the un to the powers of fact is necessary, not so much for a question of legitimacy, but above all for a question of viability. as regards the role of the european union, the fact that none of the countries with a seat in the cs, or with the possibility of having one, advocates its replacement by a single seat for the eu is eloquent and should be noted. finally, it is noted that the new un human rights council has far from overcome the shortcomings of its predecessor.
in writing. − this proposal is part of a package (together with the proposals for directives on interoperability and the european railway agency) which aims to 'facilitate the movement of locomotives within the community' as part of the further liberalisation of rail transport at eu level. the first objective of this directive is to remove any obstacle to the liberalization of rail transport by harmonizing the different safety standards in each country. the most advanced standards for ensuring railway safety in each country should undoubtedly be safeguarded and applied. it should be remembered, however, that it was precisely the liberalisation and privatisation of the railways in some countries - notably in great britain - that put them at risk, with the deterioration of the services provided to the people and the serious situations that occurred, with the consequent setback that then occurred, in the attack on this public service. it should be stressed that the adoption of harmonised rules at community level on railway safety should never call into question the more advanced standards already established in each country, nor alienate the prerogative of each country to establish them.
in writing. − the need to harmonise national procedures for the various security measures in place in the member states is essential. this issue is also another example of how much we need to insist on investing in rail transport the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles is a step in the right direction. the simplification measures and the introduction of the principle of mutual recognition are the main points of this report. of further importance is the enhancement of the rigour of training and certification measures for all stakeholders and those responsible for the railway market in the community, from railway undertakings to infrastructure managers. i therefore consider this report to be another positive step in our commitment to co-modality as the main pillar of european transport policy.
in writing. − this proposal is part of a package (together with the proposals for directives on railway interoperability and safety) which is part of the further liberalisation of rail transport at eu level, in which the 'agency' plays a central 'regulatory' role. this policy promotes the progressive degradation of the public rail transport service and the handing over of the (more profitable) lines to large private economic interests, through the privatisation of their operation, at the expense of the public purse (in particular through public-private partnerships), regardless of the interests and needs of each country and its people. in portugal, as the reality shows, the implementation of this policy has worsened the conditions of the public service provided to the population, their mobility conditions and transport tariffs; has meant the removal of hundreds of kilometres of railway network, the closure of stations, the reduction in the number of passengers and the quality of services; the commission has also been informed of the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. the railway sector is strategic for socioeconomic development. what is needed is a policy to promote the development and improvement of public rail transport systems in the various countries.
in writing. - reaffirming the criticism of its central objective, the pursuit of the liberalisation of air transport - a public service - at eu level, we recall what we stressed a year ago, namely that it seeks: - to recognise that liberalisation has had negative effects on the quality of employment and working conditions and that an assessment of its effects on safety and the maintenance of quality fleets should be carried out; - failure to ensure full respect for workers' rights, failing to explain that: (a) the contract and conditions of employment of aircrew shall be governed by the laws, collective agreements and all related rights of the country in which the worker habitually carries out his duties or in which the worker begins his work and returns to it after the termination of his activity, even if the worker is temporarily posted in another country; (b) social legislation and collective agreements shall apply to the employees of a community air carrier operating air services from an operational base situated outside the territory of the member state in which that air carrier has its principal place of business; (c) the participation of workers' representative organizations in decisions concerning the air transport sector shall be guaranteed.
in writing. - we voted against this report because it is another part of the gas market liberalisation package, expressly supporting the requirement of completing the internal market as quickly as possible, even if it does not subscribe, as a whole, to the instruments and standards proposed by the european commission in the draft regulation. there are even some interesting critical remarks, of which i would like to highlight in particular: the proposed impact assessment; the lack of respect, in some respects, for the principle of subsidiarity and the inconsistent delimitation of competences between european structures. but the report's guideline is to facilitate access to natural gas transmission networks for companies, that is to say, to facilitate the privatisation of what is still public in order to put it at the service of the strategy of economic groups wishing to enter the market.
in writing. - this report deserves my vote in favour. i and all our colleagues believe that the consistency of the third energy package depends on effective regulation, not merely apparent regulation, of the trade in natural gas. this time, i welcome the will to create conditions for increasing the level of investment in gas networks, which in itself allows for a potential increase in competitiveness and competition in the sector. i welcome the efforts to achieve effective liberalisation of national gas markets and thus third party access to the network, thus increasing the level of transparency. finally, i welcome the abstract and inherent desire in this document to give substance to the wish of our fellow europeans to see a more transparent and non-monopolized energy market. the third energy package needs the approval of this report; so do our fellow europeans.
in writing. - this measure clearly demonstrates the real desire, shared by all, to achieve the goal of liberalising the energy market. so i vote in favour. i believe that the separation of the production and transmission of natural gas is a necessary condition for this, but not a sufficient condition. hence the concern to create the necessary conditions for the encouragement of transnational investment in the network at the infrastructure level; hence the concern to require equal treatment for third countries wishing to invest in the european energy market; and finally, hence also the concern to promote greater coordination in the action of national regulators in the energy sector. this will result in the opening up of the market to competition and, consequently, in the benefit of the consumer, who will benefit from the new rules in a freer, healthier and more transparent energy market.
in writing. - our vote against this report and its commitment is a vote of consistency in defending pluralism, democracy and respect for differences. it is unacceptable that, by means of this report, they have changed the rules for the formation of political groups, have imposed greater difficulties for the formation of political groups in the european parliament than will result from the next elections. until now, 20 meps from six different member states were enough to form a political group. the proposal now adopted requires 25 members from seven member states. this means that it will be more difficult to form small political groups in the ep, which is another obstacle to the possibility of affirming positions that are different from the dominant ideology of this increasingly neoliberal, militarist and federalist european union. a final reference to the procedure followed by the majority groups - the epp and pse. they started by putting forward a proposal for a requirement of 30 members for the formation of a political group. they then used a blackmailing process on some smaller political groups to get them to sign up to a so-called compromise proposal, which was eventually approved. we, the members of the pcp, have from the outset maintained a consistent position against any further difficulties in forming political groups.
in writing. - over-limitation and creating difficulties for the formation of political groups in any parliament is never a good way to go. in addition to being considered a violation of fundamental rights, it often has the exact opposite effect of what its promoters intended. so this reform is bad. the european parliament must establish itself as a key reference point for democracy both within the european union and in the world. it cannot do this without setting an example. i do not agree with this kind of drift. moreover, europe must constantly build up the confidence of its citizens, of all citizens, in its institutions. today, more than ever. all europeans must feel represented, regardless of their political views. so this reform is not only bad, it is also untimely. i voted against it.
in writing. - our vote against this report is the result of the unacceptable pressure they intend to exert on the member states, including on national judges, who are the cornerstone of the judicial system of each sovereign country. this report makes it clear what they wanted to do with the so-called european constitution and the defunct treaty of lisbon, which they want to take back in a truly anti-democratic way. the report itself states that they intend to create a single european legal order. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. it is true that the role of national courts as enforcers of the law, including community law, is essential. but the principle of subsidiarity and the constitutional issues of each member state cannot be called into question in the name of 'the primacy of community law, its direct applicability, uniformity of interpretation and the responsibility of the state for breaches of community law', as the commission and the majority of the european parliament claim. it is unacceptable that they should continue to put pressure on us, even though the treaty has been rejected.
- "friends, friends, business to business"... this is in reference to yet another contradiction between the eu and the us, this time in the aeronautics sector, where despite the agreements signed (public aid, 1992), each one tries to defend its interests, because capitalist competition forces it to do so... the european parliament is calling for the eu to be given the right to decide on the future of the eu, and for the eu to be given the right to decide on the future of the eu. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's nuclear safety is not compromised by the use of nuclear weapons, and calls for the eu to take action to ensure that nuclear safety is not compromised by the use of nuclear weapons. after all, sovereignty is only for some and "free trade" is only for others...
in writing. - we voted against this report because it reaffirms support for the work of the european central bank and does not criticise the successive increases in the reference interest rate, even when it has already reached 4.25%, i.e. well above the reference rate of the us federal reserve itself. the report also ignores the fact that this action by the ecb is a new factor of penalty for workers, the general public and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises. it serves only the pretensions of capitalist concentration and accumulation of the large economic groups and of financial capital, even when they penalise the weakest and most dependent economies, as is the case in portugal. for example, in portugal, where the level of indebtedness is already 114% of gdp, this rise, together with the overvaluation of the euro, puts new strains on micro and smes, aggravates the trade deficit and the country's dependence. it will be more difficult to cope with unemployment, precariousness, low wages and the general rise in prices, given that the level of indebtedness already reaches 129% of the disposable income of portuguese households. we therefore reaffirm the need to break with this right-wing policy and with the false autonomy of the ecb, which only serves to conceal the fact that it is at the service of big capital.
mr president, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the earthquake and my sorrow. but there are other matters we must discuss and i am addressing this to the council in particular because i remember what president sarkozy said a few months ago about the incidents in tibet. what we have just heard is a proposal to turn sport into bad politics and politics into ridiculous sport, and that is unacceptable. it is unacceptable that president sarkozy should go to beijing to represent the european union without visiting the prisons to see the political prisoners. it would be a shame if our leaders went to beijing and didn't say a word about the harsh reality. it would be shameful and these leaders would then no longer be able to present themselves with dignity before the european institutions. we must definitely come back to this in september.
mr president, i support the olympic games being held in beijing, but i also urge the european governments and institutions to demand that china abide by its commitments regarding human rights, namely those undertaken in order to have the olympic games in beijing. this requires that the european representatives who will – or will not – be attending the olympic games use this opportunity to draw attention to the situation of human rights in china. it is very serious. there are many people in jail, including hu jia, who was jailed after speaking to us here in the european parliament via a video-conference. we cannot accept that these people will continue to be kept in jail for no account by the chinese authorities.
mr president, it is no longer just mugabe and his regime that are under scrutiny. mugabe, because of his terrible deeds and this whole tragic farce, has already been condemned by international public opinion. it is the international community that is under scrutiny now. it is thabo mbeki, it is the sadc and the au, it is china, it is us in the eu, it is the united nations. the zimbabwean people, tsvangirai and the mdc deserve all our support and solidarity in these difficult times. we could invite morgan tsvangirai to come to a meeting of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development in july or september. we all continue to receive terrible news from zimbabwe about the violence there. we must not fail. morgan tsvangirai and the mdc majority deserve not just words of comfort or any sort of consolation position but rather to be invested in office according to the results of the 29 march elections. the international community, if it fails in the transition – if we fail – will be covered with shame. i hope it will not happen like that.
what is happening in zimbabwe today is a challenge to our conscience and our capacity to act. on the one hand, there is a power legitimized by violence, exercised against a people who have caused misery and who have benefited from the connivance of other african dictatorships and autocracies. on the other side are the forces that are peacefully fighting for democracy and human rights. there is the people of zimbabwe and there can and must be the international community, and of course the european union. the european union, as has been said here, can use its diplomatic power, it can impose sanctions, it can refuse visas, it can put pressure on the regional powers, it can support the defenders of democracy and human rights. what more can we, the european parliament, do? we can support our resolution tomorrow and recommend these initiatives to the commission and the council, of course, but not only that, we can also prove that our action is consistent with our speech and offer the sakharov prize to the opposition leader morgan tsvangirai. it is a challenge which has already been put to my colleagues in parliament. we shall thus have the opportunity to reward a struggle and at the same time to contribute to a democratic and peaceful victory.
but the question that is being raised here is that the iraqi government prevented the investigation into the murder of sergio vieira de melo and prevented that execution as well as many others. i have here in my hand a copy of a magazine recently published in which zenaib ahmed appears, who was, incidentally, a person whom i have already invited to come to the european parliament to speak about the mass executions in iraqi hospitals of people on purely ethnic grounds. and my question is, in the face of a scenario that is much worse than that of the western balkans, when will the international community and the european commission demand an international tribunal to investigate and prosecute the murders of tens or hundreds of thousands of people in iraq?
the report by mr karl von wogau, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on space and security (2008/2030 (ini)) (a6-0250/2008) follows.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i congratulate mr karl von wogau on this report and on his tireless advocacy of deepening the european project by building a defence europe. the report reflects the appropriate balance between what should be the main objectives of a european space and security policy: firstly, the paramount importance of preventing, by all diplomatic and political means, the placing of weapons in space, as commissioner verheugen has stressed, so that space can continue to be used as the common property of all humanity; secondly, the importance of equipping europe with the special policies, financial resources and equipment needed to ensure its strategic autonomy on the international scene. as regards the first objective, it should be stressed that this is not a question of combating the use of space for military purposes. we know that since the beginning of space exploration, satellites have been used to support the armed forces of various countries, particularly in the field of communications. some of our colleagues are trying to confuse this kind of function, which is compatible with international law, with the recent attempts by some, especially the united states of america, to put weapons in space, thus turning it into the fourth dimension of the battlefield, beyond land, sea and air. it is this bellicose strategy and other unacceptable initiatives, such as china's anti-satellite test in january 2007, that must be fought. the report responds to these threats by calling for a proactive diplomatic role for the european union. it is up to europe to lead a comprehensive strategy to equip the international community with an effective legal architecture to ensure the total exclusion of weapons from space, including through the revision and strengthening of the outer space treaty. the report calls for the crucial importance of space for europe's strategic autonomy to be taken into account. taking the example of the galileo project, an overwhelming majority of members of this parliament believe that sharing financial resources, technology and equipment among europeans is the only way for europe not to be dependent on the united states of america, russia or china for strategically vital activities such as navigation. the report also highlights the often ignored or feared importance of galileo and other european national programmes for a serious common foreign and security policy. without the peaceful and efficient use of space, our economies, our transportation, our weather, our way of life today, would be impossible. it is up to europe to think strategically about this area of strategic importance, as is already being done in washington, beijing and moscow. think and act. and in this context i regret that the presidency of the council is not present in this debate today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 10 july 2008.
the following is the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for the period from 1 august 2008 to 31 july 2012 (com (2008) 0243 - c6-0199/2008 - 2008/0093 (cns)) (a6-0278/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 10 july 2008.
the following is the report by mrs sarah ludford, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the common consular instructions to diplomatic missions and consular posts with regard to the introduction of biometric data, including the provisions on the organisation of the reception and processing of visa applications (com (2006) 0269 - c6-0166/2006 - 2006/0088 (cod)) (a6-0459/2007).
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted this initiative to ensure interoperability between all member states, to ensure the same level of protection of personal data and the fair treatment of all asylum seekers. i particularly support the efforts to make it easier for applicants to apply for visas through the one-stop shop system and the collection of biometric data, i.e. the facial photograph and the 10 fingerprints of visa applicants, which will be stored in the central system, the vis. it should be stressed that this data will be used for identification purposes, as vice-president barrot has already mentioned, which is quite different from the situation in european passports, where only two fingerprints are allowed to be taken, so that they cannot be used for purposes other than verification, i.e. one-to-one comparison. in this respect, i welcome the willingness of the european commission, as now revealed to the house by vice-president barrot, to cooperate in the study requested by parliament on the reliability of fingerprints of minors. now, mr president, since we are in the process of a complete revision of the community visa code, a separate discussion of this particular proposal would only make sense if this process could be speeded up. this objective was not achieved. we shall vote tomorrow on a text which has not been agreed at first reading and which represents only the first stage in a process which is proving to be long. i therefore have serious doubts about the need to continue to discuss this proposal separately when its timetable seems to me to be very similar to that of the revision of the code itself that is being discussed.
the commission's communication and the proposal for a regulation to the council, if there were any doubts, would suffice to confirm that the measures proposed therein are not intended to address the causes which are actually at the root of the current worsening socioeconomic situation in the fisheries sector. despite some measures that meet the just demands of the overwhelming majority of the fishing industry, what is in view is once again the use of the deterioration of the financial situation of this sector to push forward with measures that further encourage and accelerate the culling of vessels. it is stressed that no concrete proposal has been put forward to address the two major issues that arise: the increase in the price of fuels, diesel and petrol, and the formation and improvement of the price of fish at first sale without this increasing in the consumer, that is, there are no financial resources to coordinate and implement measures to help the sector cope with the increase in fuel costs. however, there are many hundreds of millions of euros to promote the slaughter of vessels, that is, market measures are mentioned, but the painful part is not touched upon, namely the fair distribution of added value in the value chain. the commission is basically reaffirming and putting forward a set of proposals which are inadequate in their essence because they do not meet the needs of the overwhelming majority of the fisheries sector, and which show that the only real objective is the destruction of a large part of this strategic economic sector.
mr president, i think that the political direction taken by this proposal and its timeliness are absolutely indisputable. i think that is the kind of measure that is appropriate to the situation we are experiencing in european seas. i think it's about the convenient direction. the great problem that arises, particularly when we look at this proposal with some caution, is its applicability, because the commissioner asked us for urgency, our parliament gave him all the urgency, we waived the right to analyse and propose amendments to the regulation. but the problem is whether rules of such complexity as those before us are feasible within the time limits envisaged. i remember that one of the clauses requires that the slaughter plans must start before 30 november, but at the same time these slaughter plans must have programmes drawn up by the member states, that in some cases these programmes must be approved by the european commission, that the financial means must first come from reprogramming of the european fisheries fund, which is already in force, reprogramming which is extremely complex and with clauses, mandatory percentages, some of which are almost impossible to read, as the commissioner has just had the opportunity to see with article 19 (4). that seems to me to be the big problem - if we do not have in this detail of your proposal the big devil that can make its practical application impossible, which would be absolutely regrettable. i would therefore ask the commission, the commissioner and all the staff of the directorate-general to look at the feasibility of what is proposed here, because if it is not feasible within the timeframe proposed it will not be worth the effort that is being asked of us here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fisheries sector is, in the whole of the economy, probably the one that is suffering the most from the current oil shock. we all know that. the commission's political signal with this package of measures is therefore welcome, and it will not be the european parliament that will prevent its rapid adoption, as all the members have mentioned. we know that, given the scale of the problem, there are no magic solutions. however, after examining the commission's proposals, i cannot hide my great disappointment. all the measures point in one direction: the killing of boats. even alleged emergency measures, such as temporary stops, are necessarily linked to fleet reduction commitments. it is not understood that measures under article 7 exclude the replacement of engines, nor is it understood that vessels are eligible under fleet adaptation schemes if their fuel consumption represents more than 30% of production costs. what about the other vessels, commissioner, which are almost all but the trawlers? what about the entire coastal fleet with a huge social weight? i also do not understand why only vessels using only one fishing gear and representing 70% of the fleet using that gear are eligible for partial culling. this requirement, together with the rule of reducing capacity by 60% and the limit of 25% of this capacity for supporting new vessels, makes this measure absolutely unworkable, as my colleague mr casaca said a moment ago. i understand, commissioner, that you have difficulty finding solutions to problems of this magnitude, but we cannot give the sector the illusion that we are giving it a remedy for its problems when it is leading to slaughter and neglect. it is better in this case to say it explicitly. i therefore call on you, despite the short time you have until monday's council, to make an effort to simplify and to be realistic, so that the positive political signal does not turn into a huge disappointment for the sector, which looks to us with great hope.
madam president, i would like to draw attention to the fact that we have just rejected an amendment asking for the release of someone we nominated for the sakharov prize. the next time we award the sakharov prize, in december, we had better give them a set of chains and they can go straight to jail! (loud applause)
in writing. − the objectives of this proposal for a regulation are to organise the reception and processing of visa applications with regard to the entry of biometric data into the visa information system (vis) at eu level, providing, firstly, for the obligation to provide biometric data to be stored in this system and the rules for doing so and, secondly, for the provisions on the organisation of the reception of visa applications. the proposal, which is part of the community's border management (schengen area), makes operational the collection of 'biometric identifiers' (photographs and fingerprints) of visa applicants, a measure which is at least questionable, where a number of issues remain to be clarified, in particular as regards: its effectiveness, the protection of these personal data, the objectives and criteria for collection, the rules on the content of vis files, access rights (in particular in the framework of agreements between the eu and different countries on the exchange of information), and finally the safeguarding of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. we are opposed to the communitization of justice and home affairs and the creation of structures and instruments for surveillance and control at eu level, promoting security-oriented policies. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - i welcome the maintenance of the fisheries protocol with mauritania, although it is worth noting that the negotiation process for it has not always been conducted in the most open and transparent manner. the member states were not sufficiently consulted during the negotiating period, which resulted in a protocol that considerably reduces fishing opportunities while keeping the financial compensation virtually unchanged. the technical aspects essential for the main fleets have not been resolved, but new limitations have been imposed, including an extraordinary biological rest period without great scientific rigor. despite the above, portugal maintains a reasonable position with regard to its fishing opportunities in these fisheries, namely 886 gt per year for class 1 (crustacean vessels, except for lobster and crab), obtains a licence in category 5 (cephalopods) and maintains 300 gt for lobster. on the basis of the above, i consider this agreement to be a positive one for my country and i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. - the fisheries sector has been one of the sectors of the economy most affected by the current energy crisis. the skyrocketing fuel prices, the reduction in fishing effort introduced by the cfp and the stagnation in the prices of fish at first sale have put shipowners and fishermen in a delicate position. the proposal for a council regulation is therefore justified as a matter of urgency, since it aims to ensure that the eu fleet is adapted to the current economic situation dictated by the energy crisis. this proposal follows on from a commission communication, which gives a clear picture of the problems and constraints facing fisheries and the measures needed to alleviate the current crisis. although i welcome the initiative which has been taken in presenting this regulation, i think it falls a little short of what would be expected after reading the abovementioned communication. the temporary cessation of fishing activities in article 6, with mandatory integration into fleet restructuring plans, the exclusion of engines in article 7, the whole of article 9 and article 12 (3), which only defends the interests of trawling, seem to me to be the least achieved points in this proposal. despite the above, and given the great difficulties facing the fisheries sector at european level, this document deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. as we said in the debate yesterday, there are good reasons for voting against this proposal for a regulation. if there were any doubts about its correctness, it would have been enough to have followed the interventions of the european commission to dispel them. for the european commission the problem is overcapacity and the objective and solution is 'fleet restructuring'. what socioeconomic crisis? what increase in fuel (diesel and, stressed, petrol)? what's the price of the fish at the first sale? the commission's position is quite simple: 'if there is a greater reduction in capacity by some member states, it will benefit other member states, because if there is a reduction in capacity with the consequent reduction in effort, there will be more resources and more market opportunities...' the commission is proposing to spend some 1.6 billion euros (!!!) on the scrapping of vessels alone. simply put, if the fisheries sector does not die from the disease, it will die from the cure. there is no money to support the sector in dealing with rising production costs and to safeguard wages. however, eur 1 600 million is proposed for the permanent, partial or 'temporary' cessation of activity. following the motto, the portuguese government has budgeted some €8.2 million for the culling of 27 vessels in 2008.
in writing. - we are concerned about the growing and unacceptable climate of racism and xenophobia in europe, particularly when it is promoted by neoliberal policies which do not respond to the needs and problems - rather they aggravate them - which increase insecurity and degrade the living conditions of workers and the population. the recent measures adopted in italy, where on 21 may 'a state of emergency was declared for the roma camps in the regions of campania, lazio and lombardy' for a period of one year, are an example of these dangerous and unacceptable measures which promote discrimination, segregation and the 'criminalisation' of citizens and populations, violating their rights, freedoms and guarantees, their most basic human rights. this is exacerbating situations of poverty, exclusion and social disintegration, and is leading to marginalization and ghettoization, illiteracy and insertion into the informal economy, and encouraging the non-participation in society of many citizens of romanichel origin. on the contrary, and as has been stressed, the best way to protect the rights of the romani people is to guarantee their access to education, housing and health, employment and social security, within the framework of inclusion and integration policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in zimbabwe, condemning the current political regime of mugabe. the government's campaign of violence against the opposition, the ensuing violations of human rights and disregard for democratic principles are unacceptable. the civilized world must condemn without hesitation what is happening in zimbabwe. political persecution, gratuitous violence, hunger, suffering and the death of many citizens are the recent "work" of mugabe that history should record. the people of zimbabwe deserve better luck. i believe that action by the international community is crucial to resolving the present humanitarian crisis. the european union must set an example.
in writing. - clearer would be difficult. the majority of the ep rejected in its own-initiative report on 'space and security' our proposals which:- stressed that the use of space should be used exclusively for non-military purposes; rejecting any direct or indirect military use; - stressed that the galileo programme was a purely non-military project; at the same time, among other dangerous measures, it approved:- the need to use the galileo programme for autonomous operations under the cfsp, for the common foreign and security policy (cfsp;- the development of a common geospatial intelligence approach, creating the conditions for the participation of the eusc in the planning of each esdp operation requiring spatial observation and intelligence; - that the eu explore the possibility of making a financial contribution to the eusc from the eu budget in order to provide sufficient funds to meet the growing need for esdp operations; - the possibility of financing, from the eu budget, future european satellite telecommunications systems to support esdp operations; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that is why we are voting against it.
president sarkozy spent about a third of his speech defending the lisbon treaty, the continued pressure and blackmail on ireland, forgetting what the european union's own rules say, for the entry into force of a new treaty - its ratification by all member states. now, if the people of ireland overwhelmingly rejected it, the treaty is over. the ratification process should not continue. it is undemocratic to insist on its ratification. another priority is to deepen immigration policy, notably the return directive, also known as the shame directive, which fails to respect fundamental human rights and treats illegal immigrants as criminals rather than as people who have fled their countries in search of a better future for themselves and their families. where there was a total devaluation was in the social area. it is aware of the opposition to the proposal to amend the directive on working time and the proposals which the council has adopted and sent to the european parliament, with the aim of undermining labour rights, paving the way for the extension of the average weekly working time to 60 or 65 hours, the deregulation of work and further wage devaluation.
in writing. after deceiving his people by saying that he would respect the will expressed in the 2005 referendum - which rejected the so-called 'european constitution' - while at the same time advancing the so-called 'mini-treaty', which basically recovered the content of the rejected treaty, presenting it in a different form and avoiding a new referendum, sarkozy takes into his own hands the process that was pushed forward by merkel, that is, trying to impose once again the federalist, neoliberal, militarist treaty that has already been rejected three times. in the face of the deepening crisis of capitalism, big capital and the big powers of the eu, especially germany and france, point to the escape as a "way out" by pursuing federalist, neoliberal and militarist policies and this draft treaty, where they want to lay the foundations of a "super-state", to strengthen the mechanisms of imperialist intervention in close collaboration with the usa and nato. to do this, the pressures and blackmail (enlargement, two-speed eu, etc.) are multiplying. deaf, dumb and blind to the will expressed by the irish people, the eu is plotting to have them hold a new referendum, even before the 2009 european parliament elections.
mr president, this is not the first time we have been confronted with a manoeuvre of this kind, and i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and the bureau to the following: in all the parliaments of the world there are two things, the rules, the regulation, and parliamentary practice, the established practice. this is the practice in all parliaments throughout the world, and the practice on our thursdays, as previously on friday mornings, is this. we all know that. the manoeuvre we are witnessing is clearly a disloyal manoeuvre and i do not think it can be considered a request from colleagues who are not present in the chamber. and i would also ask those members who are more experienced in preparing amendments to the rules of procedure, namely mr jo leinen and mr corbett, to prepare an amendment to this rule which states: if there is a request for a quorum count and the person who made the request is not in the chamber at the time of the count, he loses the day's allowance, and anyone who is not in the chamber, including the quorum who is not verified, loses half the day's allowance, so that we can put an end to this kind of manoeuvre, which is a disloyal blow to the functioning of parliament and, in particular, to our functioning in strasbourg.
a writer. - mr president, the first of the human rights is the inviolability of life. the death penalty is the most insolent of all contempts of dignity, civilization and progress. right now, in this exact minute that we're breathing and speaking freely, there's a man locked in a cell, troy davis, living out the minutes of his life left. he's been on death row for over 15 years and has always denied committing the crime he's accused of. some of those who testified against him lied or contradicted their testimony, obtained under police pressure. in this case, there is no clear, objective and convincing evidence. the execution of troy davis by the authorities of the state of georgia is totally contrary to the moratorium on the death penalty adopted by the united nations general assembly last december. although not legally punishable, this moratorium carries enormous moral and political weight. it is now up to the states which have not done so to review their policies in order to abolish the death penalty and to respect human rights in their entirety. the state of georgia, with this case, now has the opportunity to give back deserved substance to the most essential values of democracy. commissioner louis michel recently heard sudanese president omar al-bashir say that he would not hand over those accused of crimes against humanity to the international criminal court, just as the united states would not. the example of the united states in these two matters is a disgrace, and we must by all means make the united states feel that we cannot accept this position and what a terrible example it is setting for the world in the field of human rights. the resolution calls for the eu presidency and the european commission delegation in washington to take immediate steps to prevent the conviction of troy davis and to ensure that the united states does indeed reconsider its position on the death penalty.
the portuguese media have reported in recent days that 312 workers have been made redundant at yasaki in ovar. with this layoff, in the last year and a half, yasaki saltano has sent about 1,200 people out of work in the ovar and vila nova de gaia units. it is a serious social problem in an area where employment alternatives are scarce and unemployment is rising. but it is also a real scandal, considering that this multinational received millions of euros of support from community funds to invest in portugal. now, with the change in its business strategy, it is the workers and the people in the areas where it has set up its factories who suffer. we must prevent such situations from continuing to recur systematically.
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the process of european integration was initially marked by the communityisation of the economic area. but step by step, the method devised by jean monnet and his founders, the community has moved on to other areas with the concern to bring common problems together and to find common solutions to them. a long and difficult journey that is not yet complete, but which must be followed by firm and decisive steps. one of the areas which presents us all with complex and difficult problems in the european union, which has now expanded to 27 member states and is home to some 500 million people, is justice. justice is one of the pillars of democracy and one of the instruments in the service of freedom. democracy and freedom are two of the union's fundamental values. for this reason, and because of the challenges arising from the process of european construction itself and the new problems of modern life, the court of justice is now, in my view, of vital importance and requires special attention from the union's institutional bodies, which have the power to legislate or to issue resolutions and political guidelines on the matter. trial and sentencing in absentia in criminal proceedings, known as in absentia trials, have different procedural solutions which vary widely from one member state to another. the situation is serious in that the different procedural solutions are a permanent obstacle to the enforcement of criminal judgments in one member state that have been handed down in another member state. this situation makes it difficult, or even impossible, to apply the principle of mutual recognition and increases the crime and insecurity in the union. we therefore welcome the legislative initiative of slovenia, france, the czech republic, sweden, slovakia, the united kingdom and germany, received and supported by the council, which aims in particular to establish procedural rules on notifications, second trials or appropriate remedies and judicial representation to make the action of criminal justice quicker and more effective and effective. the principle of mutual recognition applies in particular to the european arrest warrant and to surrender procedures between member states, in the application of the principle of mutual recognition to financial penalties, confiscation orders and sentences in criminal matters imposing penalties and other measures depriving of liberty for the purpose of enforcement of such sentences by the union, and should also include cases of recognition and of suspended sentences, alternative penalties and conditional sentences. the report i am presenting to this house today has been very well received by libe members. several amendments were tabled by myself and other members, and several compromise amendments were obtained, and there was a strong consensus among the members of the pse, ppe, alde, greens/efa and uen groups, so that the vote was only two votes against. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report therefore introduces amendments to the proposal for a council framework decision which, in our view, enriches it technically and gives it political robustness, particularly as regards the procedures for notifying the accused and guaranteeing his rights of defence, the possibility for the accused to be represented in his absence and to be represented by a legal representative appointed and paid by the state, and the possibility of a new trial or an appropriate appeal in accordance with national laws being brought by the accused who has already been tried in absentia. finally, i should like to thank and congratulate the political groups for the effort they have made to reach an understanding and a consensus, and i hope and wish that the vote will at least be equivalent to the broad consensus achieved.
the rapporteur. i should like to thank the minister and the commissioner for their words, as well as my colleagues, those who agreed and those who did not, because those who did not agree give me the opportunity here and now to make some clarifications. but before i do, i want to say this: i am particularly pleased today, as a member of parliament, a lawyer and a citizen, to be able to endorse the council's proposal and our amendments, and i hope and wish that the framework decision will be adopted and implemented. because the situation in europe is serious and we must respond without further delay. there are many already convicted defendants who are moving about the union without the courts being able to enforce the sentences handed down in other countries. this is a serious problem for the development of crime and security in europe and it is important that the european institutions have a response. the framework decision promotes above all the principle of mutual recognition and our amendments, the amendments proposed by parliament, must be read in conjunction, whether the solutions proposed for notifications, the solutions proposed for the rules on the representation of the accused, or the solutions proposed for the appeal or appeal proceedings. it is that in any of these solutions, technical solutions, they are articulated and, in our view, the rights of the defence are guaranteed at all times and in all circumstances to the accused. we know, and it must be said, that the perfect is the enemy of the good. in these circumstances, the solution that has been found, in my view, is a solution that we must adopt, which is already an important and big step forward and is another small step. following the old rule, this is how the european union is built, this is how europe is built.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mr mihael brejc, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 562/2006 as regards the use of the visa information system (vis) in the framework of the schengen borders code (com (2008) 101 final - c6-0086/2008 - 2008/0041 (cod)) (a6-0208/2008) is reproduced below.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mrs jean lambert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the evaluation of the dublin system (2007/2262 (ini)) (a6-0287/2008) is reproduced below.
mr president, this so-called social package merely sows illusions in the face of the seriousness of the social inequalities of some 80 million people living in poverty, including more and more millions of workers in precarious and low-paid work and millions of unemployed, while the scandalous profits of economic and financial groups and the relocations of multinationals continue. the real causes of this situation have been overlooked, namely the persistence of the neoliberal policies which the proposal for a directive on health services seeks to intensify, the flexibility of work which the proposals on working time seek to exacerbate, the attack on public services and the productive sectors which are strategic for development. we therefore insist on a genuine social package, which rejects the new proposal for a directive on working time, which promotes shorter working hours without loss of pay, which repeals the stability pact and the liberal lisbon strategy, which changes the criteria and the false autonomy of the european central bank, which creates instead a pact for employment and social progress, which promotes investment and support for micro and small enterprises and public services, and which respects the dignity of those who work.
the rapporteur. - this report was a good example of understanding and cooperation in parliament and of cooperation between parliament and the council. i therefore thank my colleagues, the council representatives, the technicians and all those involved in this complex and difficult report. the framework decision will be very important for criminal justice in the european union. it promotes the principle of mutual recognition, ensures the strengthening of the rights of defence and the guarantee of the accused, makes the execution of criminal sentences handed down in absentia more rapid and effective, and contributes to the fight against crime in europe. the future framework decision will also help to strengthen the rule of law and the rule of law and to promote the construction of europe. the strong consensus reached in the libe committee was decisive and it would be good if it could be repeated here and now. thank you, everybody.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr armando frança on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, because i consider it important to establish uniform rules for the mutual recognition of judicial decisions given in the absence of the defendant. i congratulate the rapporteur on the proposals contained in this report, which i consider to be fundamental to the harmonization of procedural guarantees in all the member states and also to the strengthening of the protection of fundamental rights such as the right of defence and the right to a trial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr gklavakis, which i congratulate on its quality, on fisheries and aquaculture in the context of integrated coastal zone management (iczm) in the eu, as it stresses the economic and social importance of these activities for coastal regions, calling for them to receive financial support under the iczm. for this reason too, it is essential that the national and regional governments of the outermost regions prepare integrated iczm strategies to ensure the balanced development of their coastal regions. i also strongly support the rapporteur's suggestion that the european fisheries fund should be used to finance long-term measures under the ifcs, since these are actions which contribute to the sustainable development of fishing regions, in a cross-cutting perspective of all the maritime activities carried out in them. finally, it should be noted that, to date, regional planning has been largely based on land-based activities, failing to take into account the impact of coastal development on certain marine activities, leading to the degradation of marine habitats, so a new approach is essential.
in writing. - we consider that the report incorporates positive aspects in the assessment of the dublin system for asylum applications in the member states which are signatories to it. among other things:- we appreciate your complaint about transfers of asylum seekers to member states that do not guarantee full and fair treatment; the restrictive definition of family member; or that the extension of access to the eurodac database involves the risk of information being passed on to third countries; - we also welcome the proposals to ensure that asylum seekers have an automatic right of appeal against a decision transferring responsibility to another member state; to safeguard the principle of non-refoulement and that an application can never be closed down for procedural reasons; to safeguard family reunification and the principle of the best interests of the child (age assessment, non-detention, definition of family member, etc.). however, we disagree with its framing and acceptance of existing eu instruments and its support for a deepening of the communitization of asylum policy, a federalist perspective which, moreover, we believe is the cause of the current setbacks in relation to asylum seekers that occur at the level of the european union. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - we voted against this final resolution because the majority of the european parliament overlooks the real causes of the main tax evasion - the existence of tax havens - even though, on one or other point, there are some positive proposals which we voted in favour of. although the report of the parliamentary committee contained some positive proposals, including explicit references to tax havens and their greater responsibility for tax fraud and erosion, which reduces public revenues and diminishes the ability of states to implement public social support policies, in the plenary vote several of these positions were rejected or weakened. the political majority in the european parliament does not really want to do away with the tax havens that house the great fortunes and fabulous profits of the stock market capitalists, of the various more or less clandestine traffics. they want to feed one of the centres of capitalism's scandalous profits, even if this means less profit for the states and less possibilities of responding in public policies in the service of the workers and the people.
the reality, mr president, is that discrimination against women continues, affecting mainly women workers whose wages are on average more than 15% lower than those of men. in some countries, such discrimination is more than 25%, as in portugal, a situation which has worsened in recent years. we therefore insist on the value of work, decent wages and compliance with social, health and safety standards, and the reduction of working hours without loss of pay, which can contribute to the creation of more jobs with rights for women and to a better balance between work and family life. the adoption of measures to combat job insecurity, which particularly affects women, must be encouraged and collective bargaining must be used to defend workers. public measures and actions aimed at improving women's access to sexual and reproductive health services, greater information on their rights and public services available to them, with respect for their dignity, should also be encouraged.
in writing. − the international debate on chemicals and their role in our lives dates back to 1980, first in the international labour organisation and then at the united nations, which adopted the ghs (harmonised system of classification and labelling of chemicals) in december 2002, and revised it in 2005. these decisions have had an impact at community level, with the adoption of several documents. at the moment, it is only the proposal for a regulation on the classification and labelling of substances and mixtures in which the european union intends to apply the international criteria agreed by the united nations economic and social council for the classification and labelling of dangerous substances and mixtures, also known as the general harmonised system (ghs). this system aims to address the protection of human health and the environment, without affecting the movement of substances and mixtures, by establishing criteria for classification and information, including labelling requirements and safety data sheets. this applies to safeguarding the transport of dangerous goods and to preventing the health and safety of consumers, workers and the environment. that is why we are voting in favour of these reports.
in writing. the resolution adopted by the majority of the ep, with our vote against, is part of the anti-russian campaign of those who, on the basis of it, want to hide their deep responsibilities in the aggravation of the international situation and pseudo-justify new and dangerous steps in the escalation of confrontation. among other things, the resolution conceals the fact that at the root of the current international situation and the caucasus is the new arms race and the militarization of international relations promoted by the us and nato (with its offensive strategic concept and its expansion to the borders of russia), the installation of new us bases and missiles in europe and the increasing militarization of this continent, the aggression and dismemberment of yugoslavia and the recognition, outside of international law, of the proclaimed independence of the serbian province of kosovo, the aggression and occupation of afghanistan and iraq, that is, imperialism (and the inter-capitalist contradictions). some of those who today call for respect for international law, for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of states, are the same people who promoted and supported the aggression against yugoslavia or iraq. what a hypocrite! the path to peace and the safeguarding of the future of humanity lies in the observance of the principles laid down in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of article 7 of the portuguese constitution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the iratxe garcía pérez report on 'equality between women and men 2008', as i believe that reducing the disparities between men and women is fundamental to a fairer society and is also a determining factor for economic growth, prosperity and competitiveness in the european union. i repeat the rapporteur's proposal, which aims to strengthen european legislation on gender equality. despite the actions taken in this area, no significant progress has been made at european level, in particular as regards the gender pay gap, women's participation in decision-making, the fight against violence against women, access to lifelong education and training, and the reconciliation of work, family and personal life. i regret, however, that amendment no 1 was adopted, removing the important reference to the need for the commission and the council to create a clear legal basis to combat all forms of violence against women.
in writing. - this report highlights important aspects of discrimination that persist in society, particularly in the areas of work, wages, poverty, pensions and pensions. it also addresses issues of violence and trafficking in women, education and training, lack of social facilities and access to childcare and care services for dependent persons, and the promotion of women's sexual and reproductive health. however, in some cases it still contains contradictions, as in the case of the measures proposed in the field of employment, where a proposal we put forward was rejected, although another proposal was approved which safeguards important aspects for women. the following proposal is now contained in the final ep resolution: 'it calls on the member states to adopt effective measures to ensure that social standards are met and that work with rights is carried out in the various sectors of activity, thus ensuring that workers, and in particular women, are paid fairly, have the right to safety and health at work, to social protection and to freedom of association, and thus contribute to the elimination of discrimination between men and women at work.' that is why we are voting in favour, although we regret that other positive proposals have been rejected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eva-britt svensson report on the influence of marketing and advertising on equality between women and men, as i agree with the need to develop a code of conduct for advertising, applicable in all member states, which ensures respect for the principle of equality between men and women and combats the use of gender stereotypes. i believe that advertising and marketing communications are dangerous vehicles of gender stereotypes, and that these generate limitations on the freedom of both women and men in their various dimensions and roles throughout life, negatively influencing their role in society.
in writing. - this report by swedish mep eva svenson of our group has made it possible to adopt a generally positive position on the impact of marketing and advertising on equality between men and women. as the rapporteur says, the aim of advertising is to influence us - as men and as women. in fact, the choices we make throughout our lives are influenced by a number of factors, including our social class, gender, image and notions of sex and the roles assigned to women and men that are constantly fed to us through education, the media, advertising. it is therefore important to continue the fight against the sexual stereotypes that persist in our societies, despite the various community programmes aimed at promoting equality between men and women. as the report states, the role of the school system in developing children's critical thinking about the image and the media in general is crucial to preventing the harmful effects of the use of gender stereotypes in marketing and advertising. but positive actions to promote good practice in advertising are also required, as some examples of this are set out in the ep resolution which has just been adopted.
in writing. - this resolution follows an important debate on the cloning of animals for food supply and its possible implications for the genetic diversity of livestock, food security, animal health and welfare and the environment. at the moment, however, it is clear that there are still many doubts, and there are no studies with clear and precise conclusions on their implications, so there are serious risks of jeopardizing the image of agricultural production in the countries of the european union. the european parliament therefore decided, on a proposal from the committee on agriculture and rural development, to invite the european commission to submit proposals to prohibit the cloning of animals for food supply, the breeding of cloned animals or their descendants, the placing on the market of meat or meat products derived from cloned animals or their descendants, the import of cloned animals or their descendants and meat or meat products derived from cloned animals or their descendants. at the present stage, it seems to us to be the right proposal, also taking into account the precautionary principle, and we have therefore voted in favour of it.
mr president, europe needs a big change to take rights seriously. smart and effective sanctions must be linked to a structural and systemic response. europe needs more unity. the myth of borders still sits at the table of our decisions. there are also postcolonial nostalgia and occasional interests. but human rights require a european power, a more intensive and more extensive integration. a new europe is not a europe where each one decides what he wants and how he wants it. a new europe is a single body and has human rights not only as an end but as the very instrument of its geopolitics. the way forward is simple: a strong european political centre, a european parliament with decision-making power, the shared responsibility of the member states' diplomats in defending human rights, the european commission steering this task, european commission delegations in third countries, more political and less bureaucratic, pressure on the world trade organisation to investigate the democratic dignity of its members, the promotion of forms of organisation identical to the union, intensive dialogue with the african union and the union of latin american states and other regional formations, pressure on the reform of the united nations with a central role for the european union, the creation of an internal strategy against dependence, centred on a single energy policy and a consistent defence policy. ladies and gentlemen, in this matter of human rights, politics needs a revolution.
mr president, commissioner, i was delighted to hear you. you made a correct diagnosis and presented concrete measures. action plans, financial support and evaluation of results are needed. more action and less statements, then. and we need to make up for lost time, because every year, in developing countries, thousands and thousands of women die because of lack of information and lack of access to sexual and reproductive health. statistics are not just numbers, they are family tragedies, they are children who are orphaned, they are people who die and could have been saved. does thinking about this, knowing that this is happening in the world, not take away your sleep? sexual and reproductive health should be a priority. unfortunately, some seek to reduce sexual and reproductive health to abortion. but it is important that abortion be legal and safe, as well as rare, for it is the only way to combat illegal abortion. access to sexual and reproductive health is a right of all women on all continents. without the right to sexual and reproductive health, there is no gender equality. the commission and the council must take appropriate action.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 4 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question period is now over (b6-0457/2008). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 36 by mrs bilyana ilieva raeva (h-0548/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: road safety the number of deaths and injuries in road accidents is an important issue in humanitarian, health, ecological, financial, social and demographic terms. in addition, the costs of this tragedy have multiple negative implications for quality of life, sustainable development and global warming. in this context, policies should be developed to encourage member states to maintain the number of transport accident victims at levels not higher than the eu average. how could the commission launch more decisive measures, such as community legislation to extend existing common standards - in particular by introducing a common eu indicator on road accident thresholds to be strictly respected by member states? what are the commission's prospects for examining the possibility of developing a uniform common approach to supervision, control and sanctions throughout the eu? can we expect that a future common eu road safety policy will also result in a common traffic police policy which will improve the quality of road safety control and monitoring?
question no 37 is therefore withdrawn. second part
question no 39 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0530/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: consumer protection and education it is well known that education policy is a matter for the member states. however, products related to learning, training and lifelong learning are traded, including across borders, and therefore concern consumers. the commission is therefore asked how european consumer protection policy is drawn up with regard to quality and prices.
question no 40 by giovanna corda (h-0545/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: consumer complaints about electronic commerce the results of a recent survey carried out by the european consumer centres (eccs) revealed a very high number of disputes involving consumers shopping online (2583 disputes and 8834 complaints in 2007). does the commission not think that, in view of the exponential development of electronic commerce, it should: launch information campaigns to warn consumers of the risks associated with this new form of commerce? to create urgent and effective procedures to resolve these cross-border disputes, in particular the many cases of non-delivery or delivery of non-compliant products?
question no 42 by mr colm burke (h-0537/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the internal market assessment panel full application of internal market legislation benefits eu consumers and industry. the internal market scoreboard is an efficient way of presenting the relative behaviour of member states in the application of this legislation. how does the commission propose to communicate the results of the panel to consumers and industry?
question no 43 by mr jim higgins (h-0539/08) subject: banking in border areas will the commission investigate the issue of additional charges for credit and multi-bank cards used in border areas, especially in view of the fact that many banks operate on both sides of the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland?
question no 44 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0553/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: sale of ote and rejection of takeover bid the greek parliament ratified by law the agreement between ote (the greek telecommunications authority) and dt (deutsche telecom) without taking into account the provisions of directive 2004/25/ec oj l 142, 30.4.2004, p. 12 on the protection of minority shareholders. in order to justify its refusal, it invoked article 8 (g) of law 3461/2006 which exempts companies in the process of privatisation from the public tendering obligation. given that before the agreement the greek state owned only 28% of ote's capital, does the commission consider that ote was a state-owned company? what percentage of public participation in the capital is considered to be state-owned? does the exemption granted by the act in question protect the rights of minority shareholders? are the principles of clarity and transparency observed at community level in the case of public tenders? in the member states, do shareholders of companies in which the state has a stake have fewer rights than those in other companies in which the state does not have a stake?
question no 48 by georgios papastamkos (h-0526/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: synergy in the black sea it has been one year since the black sea synergy entered into force. does the commission consider that it has put together a broad consensus strategy to address the region? in this context, are the development of maritime links and transport and land links as well as cooperation in the energy sector, while promoting sustainable development, the main focus of eu initiatives? how does it intend to take advantage of the presence of member states (greece, bulgaria, romania) in the region?
question no 49 by mr robert evans (h-0533/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: election observation missions by the eau the commission spends considerable sums of money on election observation missions around the world and plays an extremely important role in some of the most challenging countries. how does the commission assess these long-term missions? how can we help and support countries more effectively to fill the gaps in the conduct of elections and thus better prepare for the next elections?
question no 50 by mr david martin (h-0543/08) subject: withholding of palestinian tax funds by israel what steps has the commission taken to prevent israel from withholding palestinian tax funds?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex).
member of the commission. − mr president, i certainly intend to press on with determination in the negotiations to complete the doha world trade deal. it is very important indeed and i am grateful to the honourable member for reinforcing that. i did not actually intend to comment on or respond to this debate. the reason i do so is because i feel that, in some of the contributions that have been made, there has been demonstrated not only a bit of a misunderstanding about the provision of services in the 21st century, particularly amongst developing countries, but, beyond that, a false ideological boundary is being put in place through the remarks of some of those who have contributed to this debate between what they call ‘commercial’ and ‘non-commercial’ services. i have to say that spending most of my time as i do in the world and amongst developing countries, this distinction and this ideological boundary that has been described in this debate is increasingly fading without trace. it is not the case, as mrs lucas has suggested, amongst wto members that developing countries increasingly see trade in services as quite different and separate from trade in goods. actually, the exact opposite trend is occurring in the wto and in trade negotiations. increasingly, developing countries are bringing trade in services into these negotiations. i think that it is wrong – and i speak as somebody who is a social democrat of many decades standing who, i think and i hope, has a developed social conscience – to put forward a proposition in the case of services that state provision is good and that private provision is bad. this is not only out-of-date thinking; it is contrary to the interests of developing countries and to the very needs of the poorest members of those countries and those communities who we should be seeking to stand up for with our values as europeans and our principles as europeans. so i hope that we will not follow and not reinforce, if i can respectfully suggest, this extraordinary equation that you can put the needs of poorest people first by denying to developing countries the opportunities to supply not only water and energy and telecoms more efficiently and more cheaply for consumers, but also supply health care and education using investment, technology, management skills and techniques from a variety of international sources on a competitive basis. this most certainly does not mean that these services therefore should go unregulated. i do not support monopolistic behaviour, price-fixing and cartels, but this goes to the very point that the honourable member was making. regulation by national governments in developing countries is, of course, essential in relation to these services, but please let us not create or give support to what i believe is, as i have described, a false ideological boundary between the commercial and the non-commercial. both are equally valid if properly regulated and if properly serving the needs of the people who are desperately in need of more services of this kind, more efficiently provided and more cheaply in many cases.
in july, another attempt to conclude the 'doha round' aimed at taking a step forward in trade liberalisation failed, as the european parliament intends to approve an (own-initiative) report that pushes to the nausea for the liberalisation of trade in services worldwide, either within the wto or through bilateral or multilateral agreements promoted by the eu with third countries. it is a genuine pamphlet aimed at liberalising all services, including public services, which it calls 'public needs and the general interest'. among other examples, it points to greater liberalisation of healthcare, water distribution, education, cultural services, tourism or financial services. the report goes so far as to state that 'the principles of gats do not prohibit privatisation or deregulation' and stipulates that, after the entry into force of the wto agreement, periodic negotiating rounds should be held 'in order to progressively achieve a higher level of liberalisation'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the great capital in europe could not write better...
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his report and to thank him for the openness he has shown and for the contributions of the various colleagues, in particular willi piecyk, who has recently left us. in 2006, parliament rejected for the second time the proposal on market access for port services. it therefore favoured measures to improve transparency, promote healthy competition, reduce job insecurity, improve staff qualifications and increase safety, and stressed that unregulated liberalisation of the european port system would be counterproductive. this report reinforces that position. as shadow rapporteur for the socialist group, i have defended and continue to defend the following points raised in the final report: the need to use existing opportunities for european funding or state aid for the development and acquisition of advanced and environmentally responsible equipment and for better integration of the european port network; the need for regional and local authorities to take advantage of the possibilities offered by their ports for the development of their regions by creating better intermodality of transport and competitiveness between ports; the need to strengthen the current social conditions in the maritime sector, in particular through better training, lifelong learning and better safety conditions at work; the need to strengthen the european union's position as a global maritime force, in particular through the strengthening of regulatory frameworks in the field of maritime safety and port financial rules, to support public or private investors from various origins; the need to strengthen the current ultra-peripheral operating powers of ports for the development of their regions by creating better intermodality of transport and competitiveness between ports; the need to recognise the need to adapt the current regulatory framework to the changing environmental and economic conditions of the european union, while recognising the need to ensure that the impact of public aid is not negligible, in particular cases, in order to ensure the rapid adaptation of the european union's specific environmental and technological requirements, while recognising the need to ensure the rapidly changing economic and equitable impact of the union's port system; the need to ensure that the rapidly changing environmental and technological framework does not neglect the need to reduce the impact of the specific effects of the union's specific, or the specific, or the most competitive, greenhouse gases, in order to reduce the environmentally sensitive, and the greenhouse gases, and the greenhouse gases, and to ensure the environmentally sensitive, and the environment
the commission's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of amsterdam, and the council's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of amsterdam. in its communication, the commission explains how it has challenged the need to reconcile port development and management with transparency, competition and, in general, the acquis communautaire, as well as the creation of a genuine internal market for maritime transport in europe, for which it will present a legislative proposal, i.e. the aim is to further integrate port management into the competition rules of the internal market of the european union. the commission obviously has no power to privatise. however, it seeks to create the conditions so that when these are realised, they can be implemented within the european union through the liberalisation of port services, for example, in the case of service concessions in the port sector, and i quote, 'so as not to restrict or limit free competition beyond what is necessary', or in the case of public funding for all commercial ports, and i quote, 'regardless of their turnover'. we therefore believe that the european parliament's report should explicitly reject any further attempt to liberalize port services at european union level in terms of public funding, port concessions, technical and nautical services or cargo handling services. the port sector is a public service of strategic importance for the economic and social development, the environment, defence and sovereignty of each member state and should not be liberalised at the level of the european union.
i would first like to congratulate mrs ries on her work. the link between bad environment and health risks is now evident. there are more pathologies associated with environmental factors and climate change, such as respiratory, allergic and cancer diseases. global warming is causing new pandemics. studies reveal that droughts and floods kill more people than any other natural disaster. the lack of air quality in schools and health facilities is also a source of serious problems. more and more people are getting sick as a result of air pollution in big cities and inside buildings, as a result of water pollution and even groundwater pollution, as a result of contamination of agricultural land by plant protection products, as a result of the lack of treatment of waste water and urban waste. measures must be taken to avert future evils.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we know that this is a very sensitive area because the protection of soil, a scarce and non-renewable resource, is vital, because agriculture and the conservation of biodiversity depend on it, because it is a platform for human activities, including cities and infrastructure, but also for nature and landscapes, and so its protection is crucial to preserve our heritage, natural resources, the quality of surface and groundwater, health, human life. soil protection is a very dynamic system, with many functions and vital services for human activities and the survival of ecosystems. soil protection is a collective imperative for our common life and for the protection of future generations, which means that it is not subject to the rules of competition. but, as a result, soil is also subject to multiple encroachments, property speculation, degradation and contamination, including in border areas, which calls for greater cooperation between member states and the definition of some common objectives in respect of the principle of subsidiarity and the social function of land. there are a number of policies at community level which have implications for soil and may jeopardise its protection, so we need to go further in the study of the risks and the various perspectives of soil in order to take account of appropriate measures aimed at its preservation, although a very important contribution would certainly be a change in the common agricultural policy to provide more support for family farming and small and mediumsized farmers. it is in this context that it is important to know the council's position and also to follow its development.
mr president, as the minister has said, we are dealing with a very sensitive and complex subject on which it is not easy to reach consensus among the 27 member states and even in this parliament, as has already been seen. as my colleague, mrs inés ayala, has said, soil is a non-renewable resource, which is linked to natural disasters and agricultural production, which is linked to land use, land use planning and nature conservation, in other words to very delicate and very demanding aspects. there are many interests involved and many of my colleagues have asked themselves whether this directive is necessary. others have questioned his flexibility. however, a very strict legal framework is not always the best way to achieve the objectives, taking into account the different realities. this directive, in my view, is important and necessary to maintain the balance of ecosystems.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the compromise resolution, not because we share all the points or wording in it, but because we believe that it could help to denounce the unacceptable situation of palestinian political prisoners in israeli prisons. israel, with the support and connivance of the united states and its allies, is illegally occupying palestinian territories, building settlements and a wall of segregation, murdering, detaining, beating and exploiting the palestinian people, systematically violating international law and disregarding the inalienable right of this people to its sovereign, viable and independent state. some 10,000 palestinians, including hundreds of children, are held in israeli prisons in inhumane conditions, subjected to humiliating and degrading treatment and ill-treatment, including torture; most of them are prevented from receiving visits from their families; many of them are held in 'administrative' detention without any formal guilt or trial. israel holds in its prisons about one third of the elected members of the palestinian legislative council, as well as other local palestinian elected officials. the arrest of palestinian activists is an instrument to combat the legitimate resistance of the palestinian people and to perpetuate the israeli occupation. any just, viable and lasting solution that ends the israeli occupation of the occupied territories requires the release of all palestinian political prisoners by israel.
in writing. - since it is impossible to address in a statement of vote the many important issues raised by the report, especially the many on which we strongly disagree, it may be best to use the example of the vote on the amendments tabled in plenary to point out the central objective of such an eu policy instrument. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. - '... the european union sanctions against the palestinian government that was installed in february 2006 following elections recognised by the european union as free and democratic have violated the coherence of eu policy and have proved to be seriously counterproductive, significantly aggravating the political and humanitarian situation'; - '... israel's persistence in its violations of international law requires urgent action by the eu'; what better example to denounce that the aim of eu sanctions is unacceptable interference, applied, of course, with "two weights and two measures". that is, the use of sanctions as a weapon of pressure and political interference, where the so-called "friends" are safeguarded and the "others" are criticized, those whom the eu (and the us) target. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − there are about 536,000 maternal deaths annually (95% of which occur in africa and south asia) and for every woman who dies, 20 or more women are affected by serious complications, including chronic infections and disabling injuries, which could be easily prevented if there was universal access to basic and emergency obstetric care and reproductive health services, which requires greater support from developed countries. these data are very worrying and demonstrate that the maternal mortality target (mdg 5) is not only not on track to be achieved by developing countries, but is the only one where no progress has been made and the indicators of 20 years ago are identical to today's. the truth is that maternal mortality could be prevented by providing better health care, ensuring that all women have access to comprehensive sexual and reproductive health information and services. we therefore support the resolution adopted and welcome the fact that our proposal on defending access to effective contraception and legal and safe abortion was also adopted in plenary.
in writing. - although it has been toned down in some of its most negative aspects and softened with some phrases which, while not calling into question the process of liberalisation, are intended to 'humanise' it, the ep resolution remains, in essence, a pamphlet in favour of liberalisation of services, including public services (allegedly tempered, in its presentation, by the need for a 'differentiated' liberalising approach). however, despite the wishes of the majority of meps, the current international situation is not the same as when the doha round was launched in 2001, meaning that the us and eu face difficulties in their use of the wto to impose their agenda of economic domination on the world. however, despite successive setbacks, the eu and the 'social democrats' mandelson and lamy are once again trying to keep the negotiations from 'going off track', seeking to safeguard and not lose the negotiating ground already reached. as we have said before, the major economic and financial groups want to control international trade within the framework of capitalist competition, the economy (agriculture, industry, services, labour, natural resources) of the states and of the states themselves. liberalisation means an attack on the achievements of the workers and the sovereignty of the peoples and environmental destruction. that is why we are voting against it!
in writing. - taking into account the concerns expressed in the report about the need for investment in port regions, technological modernisation and environmental protection, we consider that the report highlights that the european commission's objectives for a future port policy include the further liberalisation of this strategic public service in different member states. we therefore regret the rejection of our proposals, which emphasised: - rejection of any further attempt to liberalise port services at eu level by applying the competition rules of the internal market; - calls for action to combat the precariousness and risk of accidents in the sector and to guarantee and enforce the rights of port workers, in particular in the field of employment, fair pay, decent working conditions, social protection, collective agreements, trade union rights and vocational training. the diversity and complementarities of ports in europe and their management under advanced standards of quality and safety, which is a strategic element for economic development, must be safeguarded. the opening up of european port management to transnational companies, as has been demonstrated, will devalue labour relations and collective bargaining and increase the dangers of the port system becoming precarious, thus putting maritime safety at risk. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - while we follow the concerns and proposals in the report, we believe that it does not reflect essential guidelines for national policies for this strategic sector - with social, economic and environmental implications - namely to base this system on a strong public sector and the necessary fight against the systematic violation and non-compliance of workers' rights in segments of this sector. we therefore consider that the report falls short of its objective in not addressing the central issue of working conditions for professionals in this sector. the practice of precarious employment, which encourages non-compliance with working hours, rest periods and collective agreements, is a violation of workers' rights and threatens their own safety (and that of others). it is therefore necessary to stop the destruction of jobs and the precariousness of working relationships by promoting integration into the workforce of companies and the dignification of careers and wages. we also disagree with the insistence on the application of the 'user-payer' and 'polluter-payer' principles, since it is the final consumer who is the most affected by these measures, which only benefit those who have the financial capacity to 'use' or 'pollute', and do not necessarily contribute to a significant improvement in the transport of goods.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report, despite some contradictions. but there are very positive aspects which are important, in particular its defence of the precautionary principle, stating that it should occupy a central position in community policies in the fields of health and the environment. it also criticised the action plan, saying that it 'contains the seeds of a semi-failure, as it is only intended to accompany existing community policies, not based on a prevention policy, with the aim of reducing diseases linked to environmental factors, nor does it propose any clear and quantified objective'. it also stressed that the european commission should take account of the economic importance of smes by providing technical support to enable and help them to comply with binding environmental health regulations and encourage them to introduce other changes which are positive from the point of view of environmental health and have an impact on the functioning of businesses.
the following is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the coup d'état in mauritania.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the debate on six motions for resolutions on hangings in iran will continue.
author. - 2008 marks the 20th anniversary of the mass execution of thousands of political prisoners in tehran prisons, one of the worst crimes against humanity since the second world war. at the same time, the number of executions in iran is completely out of control, with 29 hangings in one day, according to official iranian authorities, in evin prison in tehran alone. the regime does not respect minors, the regime does not respect the rights of anyone, and we are now faced with the possibility announced by the american authorities of handing over the ashraf camp, where there are almost 4,000 iranians, who, according to the status that has been granted by the american authorities themselves, are protected under the fourth geneva convention. they have been officially recognized as such by the american authorities and we are witnessing a negotiation for their handover to the iranian authorities at this time, on these terms. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we cannot allow this to happen. this is collaborating with the worst of crimes against humanity. that would be us being accomplices. we can't allow this under any circumstances. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is much worse than guantanamo and we must make the united states authorities understand this very clearly. we can't allow this to happen. it's a complete break with our civilized values.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the murder of albinos in tanzania will continue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately after the debate.
we now move to the vote.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i think it is necessary to correct what has been said here. i can assure this house that the united nations high commissioner has in no way ever proposed this or agreed with what has been said by this colleague of ours and therefore i would appeal to the house never to vote on what is being proposed here. that would be to call into question the most important thing, and one which the commissioner has also stressed, namely the protection afforded by the geneva convention to the prisoners of ashraf. we could therefore never accept this amendment which has been proposed. i would also like to make it clear that it would be totally contrary to what has been proposed by our colleague mr hutchinson and also by our colleague from the european people's party and therefore i am strongly opposed to this oral amendment.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i call the sitting of the european parliament to order. (the sitting was closed at 4.45 p.m.)
mr president, for nearly ten years, since 12 september 1998, the five cuban citizens who have done nothing but defend their country and their people, and who have tried to prevent them from becoming victims of terrorist acts promoted and organized by miami-based organizations, antónio guerreiro, fernando gonzález, gerardo hernández, ramón labañino and rené gonzález, have been unjustly detained in united states prisons. during these ten years, these five cuban citizens have been victims of numerous situations of illegality, of unacceptable and inhuman punishments, pressures and blackmail, of the violation of the most elementary human rights, such as the application of cruel impediments and restrictions by the united states administration regarding the visit of relatives to detainees. elizabeth palmeiros, wife of ramon labañino, has been waiting for a visa for over two years. antónio guerreiro remained more than a year and a half without receiving visits from relatives and fernando gonzález more than a year. the united states authorities have prevented adriana perez from visiting her husband, gerardo hernández, since 12 september 1998. olga salanueva has been unable to visit her husband, rené gonzález, since august 2000. we demand justice, we demand the release of these five cuban patriots.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this debate is taking place at a time of widespread crisis on the financial markets, which is the result of the growing financialisation of the economy, of unbridled speculation, of the multiplication of financial instruments and products, always in the pursuit of ever greater speculative gains. it's another facet of the crisis of capitalism. it was clear for a long time that another financial bubble was there and that one day it would burst. not just in the united states, but also in the european union. this is also the result of neoliberal policy measures which have supported the desire of investors to obtain ever higher profits, which have encouraged a lack of transparency, which have created and allowed the maintenance of tax havens where the capital of the underground economy, the war business, human trafficking and drugs are also housed and laundered. now, the public money that was missing for social policy, to fight poverty and social exclusion, to prevent the deaths of millions of people, including children who suffer from hunger and lack of basic health care, now, i repeat, public money is being used to prevent bankruptcies and greater losses of financial groups. the profits and gains have been privatized and only a small group of investors and managers of paychecks have been paid, but the people who will suffer the consequences are always the same. the workers who go out of work, the people who have to pay higher interest rates, including here in the european union, especially in the countries with weaker economies. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the internal market and of the internal market in the community. as households have one of the highest rates of indebtedness, at around 120% of gross domestic product, and as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are highly dependent on credit, what they are now experiencing is increasing difficulties with the rise in interest rates that this situation is causing, taking on a particularly strong gravity in portugal as in other countries with weaker economies. so some measures are needed immediately, starting with the end of tax havens and confidentiality, without which there can be no transparency. but from what has been said here, in particular by commissioner mccreevy, it cannot be concluded that this is the way to go, which is unacceptable. the european council in madrid has also called for the european parliament to be consulted on the future of the european union. it is essential that the priority of public policies is to support job creation with rights, production, poverty reduction, improving the purchasing power of workers and pensioners and supporting quality public services.
madam president, i very much agree with what has been said here about the timeliness of this excellent report by poul rasmussen. i would say that this report would have had a better chance if it had been politically possible to have presented it six years ago. i think poul agrees with me. six years ago some of us tried to raise the issue of the regulation of hedge funds in the european parliament and the liberal and epp majority systematically prevented the socialist group from bringing this issue into several debates. we are facing a crisis today, a crisis which is structural, as commissioner almunia says, a crisis whose outcome is unknown and one which we cannot turn a blind eye to. we cannot take the position that commissioner mccreevy has taken here, we have to take - and i want to believe that the commission will be prepared to do so, in the words of commissioner germunia - we have to take a proactive attitude and an attitude of breaking with the system of financial governance that has been regulating the european economy and the world economy in recent times. that is what mr poul proposes in his report, and that is what the commission has a duty - i insist - to study and follow closely.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i begin with the report by mrs roure, whom i once again support in her efforts to reach a political agreement on the proposal for a framework decision on the protection of personal data under the third pillar, which is not based on the lowest common denominator, with a minimum level of data protection and with serious shortcomings. i repeat my position, which i have said here several times: it is essential and urgent that a legal instrument be adopted which guarantees data protection under the third pillar and ensures a level of protection of personal data at least equivalent to that guaranteed under the first pillar by directive 95/46. i was very pleased to hear vice-president barrot's statements, he is in tune with parliament's concerns, but i regret that the empty council seat is a living example of the political deafness that has permeated all presidencies. i am not optimistic about the council's response. the lefrançois report: in 2002, we adopted a framework decision, where we standardized the definition of 'terrorism' and the applicable sanctions. several speakers have already referred to the internet, the new information technologies, the advantages it brings, but also the use that criminals can make of this network. there are already, as has been said, some 5000 terrorist propaganda websites, which are instruments of radicalization and recruitment, while serving as a source of information on terrorist means and methods. we therefore need to amend the 2002 directive in order to create the necessary instruments to deal with this form of cyberterrorism. i support the proposals of the rapporteur, mrs lefrançois, which reconcile the urgency of this fight with the essential respect for freedom of expression and association. finally, mr president, it is very important that the member states ratify the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism of 2005, in order to ensure that it is applied in parallel and to complement the two instruments with a more rigorous and comprehensive legal regime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by katerina batzeli on a proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the european year of creativity and innovation (2009) because i believe that creativity and innovation are essential for europe to be competitive in a globalised world. creativity is an essential driver of innovation for both economic and social reasons. the european year of creativity and innovation will stimulate policy debate, raise public awareness of the importance of innovation and creativity and disseminate information on good practice within the union. i also think it is important that parliament has used codecision in this area, which will allow it to have an influence on this important matter.
in addition to the many questions and comments raised by the content (and omissions) of the report, it is worth noting the complaint it makes about the volume of official development assistance (oda): - '...records the alarming decrease in eu aid in 2007, from €47.7 billion in 2006 (...) to €46.1 billion in 2007...'; - '... stresses that, if the current trend continues, the eu will allocate eur 75 billion less than planned for the period 2005-10'; - 'expresses serious concern that most member states (18 out of 27, including latvia, italy, portugal, greece and the czech republic) have not managed to increase their oda levels between 2006 and 2007, with some countries, such as belgium, france and the united kingdom, even registering a dramatic decrease of more than 10%; ...' - 'notes that the decreases in the levels of aid declared in 2007 are in some cases attributable to the artificial increase in the figures in 2006 due to the debt reduction support; ...' - 'considers totally unacceptable the discrepancy between the frequent promises of increased financial assistance and the reality of considerably smaller amounts actually disbursed ...';
in writing. - i voted in favour of the maria badia i cutchet report on improving the quality of teacher training, as i consider that improving education in the european union is a decisive factor in promoting high-quality education and training, which in turn contributes to job creation and to increasing europe's competitiveness and growth, in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. as regards violence in educational establishments, i repeat the rapporteur's recommendation that tools and procedures be developed to eradicate this phenomenon and that cooperation between teachers and those responsible for education be encouraged.
in writing. − the tenth anniversary of the signing of the bologna declaration in 2009 marks the need to redefine the objectives of the process. the serious redefinition of these objectives requires a reflection on the implementation of the bologna process in the member states. it is necessary to consider whether the policies pursued in the name of bologna have, in fact and as intended, led to the consolidation of a european higher education area capable of responding to the challenges of competitiveness at international level. i support this initiative a concrete contribution to identifying, on the one hand, problems and challenges that have arisen in 10 years of implementation and, on the other hand, issues that must remain a priority. this is the case with student mobility, a cornerstone of a richer and more competitive education and an essential contribution to the development of the concept of european citizenship. it is essential that member states are encouraged to check the impact of this process on the proper qualification and preparation of young people. as our rapporteur points out, the objectives of the process and the central importance of students in all matters concerning their education must not be lost sight of.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the doris pack report on the bologna process and student mobility, as i believe that quality, efficient, innovative and accessible european higher education for all european citizens is crucial if the european union is to remain competitive and successful in the face of the demands of globalisation. in this context, i believe that measures such as the promotion of reciprocity in the flow of students, the continuing training of teachers in the various fields of study and the development of means of financing student mobility are fundamental to ensuring the achievement of the objectives of the bologna process.
in writing. - although the rapporteur expresses particular concern about student mobility within the european union, considering that member states should be supported in their efforts to modernise and innovatively reform their higher education systems, the truth is that the whole report involves this issue in the approach to the bologna process and in what she considers to be absolutely necessary to face the challenges of globalisation, insisting on its deepening. that is why we abstained, because we disagree with this analysis. but we agree that it is time to reflect and debate on the bologna process, in particular to try to determine to what extent the education systems have changed and to what extent these developments and changes have affected the quality of higher education in the various member states. access to high quality education should be an option for all citizens, regardless of their nationality, country or place of birth, and mobility can have very positive effects not only on the individual on mobility, but also on higher education institutions and society as a whole. moreover, its social dimension must not be forgotten, as has happened in the past.
in writing. − the tenth anniversary of the signing of the bologna declaration in 2009 marks the need to redefine the objectives of the process. the serious redefinition of these objectives requires a reflection on the implementation of the bologna process in the member states. it is necessary to consider whether the policies pursued in the name of bologna have, in fact and as intended, led to the consolidation of a european higher education area capable of responding to the challenges of competitiveness at international level. i support this initiative - a concrete contribution to identifying, on the one hand, problems and challenges that have arisen in 10 years of implementation and, on the other hand, issues that must remain a priority. this is the case with student mobility, a cornerstone of a richer and more competitive education and an essential contribution to the development of the concept of european citizenship. it is essential that member states are encouraged to check the impact of this process on the proper qualification and preparation of young people. as our rapporteur points out, the objectives of the process and the central importance of students in all matters concerning their education must not be lost sight of.
in writing. - we voted against this report because, despite some of the remedies proposed and some criticism of the financial crisis, no concrete measures are taken to combat effectively the growing financialisation of the economy, rampant speculation, the proliferation of financial instruments and products to secure ever greater speculative gains, or even the end of tax havens and banking secrecy. as we said in the plenary debate, the consequences are always the same: workers who go out of work, people who have to pay higher interest rates, including here in the european union, especially in the countries with the weakest economies, such as portugal, where the debt ratio is close to 120% of gdp and household debt is around 130% of disposable income. we therefore insist on the priority of supporting job creation with rights, production, poverty eradication, improving the purchasing power of workers and pensioners, supporting quality public services and increasing subsidised credit lines to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - the concerns expressed in this report, which are accompanied by a due recognition of the importance of the financial products in question, merits my agreement in their essence. given that we are going through a period of evident financial market turbulence it is important to react with as much firmness as calm and science. much of the economic success of the last few decades in europe, the united states and other fast-growing economies has been due precisely to the agility of financial markets. in the necessary corrections to the existing system, it is important to act on the causes of the crisis, but not to destroy what is virtuous about the system. this is the assumption which the european commission must take into account when urging the european parliament to act.
in writing. − transparency should be a guiding principle for the functioning of markets, including financial markets. it should not, however, be the only element of consideration, otherwise the principle would be made the norm, confusing the desired result (healthy and efficient financial markets) with the proposed means of achieving it (sufficiently regulated and supervised markets). in the context of the current political and economic debate on the financial market, it is important that the commission interprets this recommendation in this way, endeavouring to defend the quality of the european financial market, recalling that it is from the proper and fundamentally free functioning of this market that the greatest economic benefits for society result.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report because transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (tse), commonly known as mad cow disease, is a serious threat to our health. as is well known, this deadly infectious disease develops through a protein that can be found in infected meat and results in deterioration of the human brain. this epidemic has been reduced by strict european regulation. in this report, the rapporteur complements the work of the previous rapporteur by adding new elements which should be governed by the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. we therefore agree that the commission proposal should be amended to ensure that controls are not reduced. we must be extremely careful to ensure that the regulatory procedure with scrutiny does not slow down the implementation of measures against this disease. we must also avoid creating loopholes in legislation by granting member states exceptions. that is why this report is so important and why i hope that the european commission will take it into account. after the well-known scandals relating to this disease, the public in the member states is demanding the transparency it legitimately deserves.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by roselyne lefrançois on a proposal for a council framework decision amending framework decision 2002/475/jha on the fight against terrorism, because i believe that the instruments for combating terrorism need to be adapted to the new means of information and communication available to terrorists. the revision of the eu framework decision allows for the inclusion in the notion of terrorism of specific preparatory acts, such as recruitment and training for terrorism and public incitement to terrorism, which will be criminalised in all member states. the important amendments proposed by the pse group to guarantee fundamental freedoms of expression and association should also be highlighted.
in writing. − the current international and community legal framework includes a set of instruments which are all the more necessary for combating actual terrorism and the violent and transnational organised crime associated with it. the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the set of security measures which, by exploiting the events of 11 september 2001, have been putting at risk the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the present proposal, like the rapporteur, is moving forward with definitions which, because of their ambiguity, do not safeguard respect for fundamental freedoms. as in the framework decision 2002/475/jha on combating terrorism with its definition of 'terrorism' , the possibility of applying security measures and criminalising natural or legal persons who effectively fight, by word or by writing, against state terrorism is once again open. the present proposal does not add any value in the fight against actual terrorism and the transnational crime associated with it, but rather poses real dangers to the security and fundamental freedoms of citizens in the different member states. as we have stressed, more than security measures, it is necessary to address the real causes that fuel terrorism. as we said, we will not trade freedom for security, because we will lose both. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - the legal clarity of the legal framework for combating terrorism is as necessary as clarity and determination in this regard. in this sense, the commission's concern about the mechanisms, means and methods involved in the recruitment of terrorists, particularly those recruited in european countries, often native to europe, is understandable. in this respect, it is necessary to ensure that the police authorities and the state have the necessary means to act, preferably preventively. non-police and non-judicial measures, but also measures to combat this phenomenon, are equally important. the aim is to ensure that, alongside the judicial system's reaction, there is also an alert, attentive and capable political system to intervene, whether in strengthening integration, in promoting moderate, majority voices or in combating the marginalization associated with illegal immigration. for all these reasons, political power must be alert and active. while it is true that it is impossible to prevent all acts, it is possible to prevent the environment that promotes, incites and encourages terrorism.
in writing. - stressing that this is a procedure for the council to 'consult' the ep, we stress that - having supported amendments tabled by the ep, even if they are more backward than previously adopted positions - we consider that this proposal falls short of what is required in terms of 'protection of personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters'. in addition to other crucial aspects in the negative assessment of this proposal, it should be stressed that it did not exclude, even in a (pseudo) conditional way, 'the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions or trade union membership, as well as the processing of data relating to health and sexual life', which is unacceptable! as was stressed in the debate, this is a proposal based on a minimum common denominator for a matter as fundamental as the guarantee of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the citizens of the different member states, which is lower than that contained in other legal instruments, notably the council of europe. the protection of personal data is urgent and essential, and it cannot be ensured by means of a legal instrument whose scope, because it is too broad or defective, allows for its non-compliance or fails to safeguard it. that is why we abstained.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, mr minister, as shadow rapporteur for the paulo costa report and rapporteur for the flag state report, i would like to say something about the civil liability of passenger carriers and the package as a whole. as regards the paulo costa report, my efforts have focused on strengthening passengers' rights in the event of accidents and incidents, ensuring adequate financial compensation and early support to alleviate the consequences of incidents, whether they occur at sea or in inland waterways, where sea travel often ends, and also on strengthening passenger information requirements. i therefore also agree with the second reading of these proposals. as for the package, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that each of the reports is worth something in itself and certainly brings added value. but i would say that the package as a whole, including the one i was rapporteur for, the flag state obligations package, has added value for maritime safety, and i therefore ask the council, the commission and everyone to do their utmost to get the package approved. i would also like to thank the french presidency for its efforts, following on from the slovenian presidency, to bring this matter forward. i believe that only an integrated package will promote maritime safety. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the rapporteurs. we will come out of this with a response, i would say, "cambada", as they say in portuguese, if we do not look at the package as a whole, because only the package as a whole can prevent erika and prestige from happening in the short term, and only in this way can we effectively ensure maritime safety.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the october part-session only. (the sitting was suspended at 5.50 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
the question period is now over (b6-0462/2008). the following questions were put to the council.
question no 2 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0616/08) subject: european pact on immigration can the council indicate what consequences the recently agreed pact on immigration may have for the development of the european union's immigration policy?
question no 3 by eoin ryan (h-0619/08) subject: instruments to be used against corruption what are the council's anti-corruption tools to ensure that eu aid is delivered directly and effectively to the people most in need in developing countries?
question no 4 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0621/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: increase in food prices among the priorities of the council for the french presidency is sustainable development in the agriculture and fisheries sectors. in the present economic climate, when europe and the world in general are being affected by rising food prices, what can and does the council intend to do to ensure that urgent short-term food supply needs are met without compromising the sustainability of agricultural and fisheries development?
question no 5 by mr liam aylward (h-0623/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: white paper on sport will the council indicate which elements of the eu white paper on sport it will seek to implement and promote during the french presidency of the eu?
question no 6 by brian crowley (h-0625/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: objectives of the european conference on alzheimer's disease the author of the question welcomes the french presidency's programme which emphasises the promotion of better health care for people suffering from alzheimer's disease and their families. encouraging the exchange and sharing of national experience and cooperation of best practices between member states in the field of health is precisely the eu's objective. greater exchange of information and best practice between member states on all health-related issues will greatly benefit medical professionals and, most importantly, our citizens. in view of the fact that a large european conference on alzheimer's disease is to be held in october, can the commission state what the objectives of the conference are and what the french presidency intends to achieve?
question no 7 by avril doyle (h-0631/08) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: agricultural policy and the french presidency the presidency of the council states in its work programme that it will review the legislative proposals on the evaluation of the common agricultural policy with a view to adopting new provisions by the end of 2008. to this end, it will work closely with the european parliament. the presidency also proposes to its partners that they take a broader view of the issues and objectives facing european agriculture and agricultural policy in the future. in this context, can the council presidency provide parliament with an update on the informal meeting of agriculture ministers scheduled for annecy on 21 and 23 september 2008? in particular, can the presidency inform parliament of the progress made with regard to the cap's 'health check' and the animal health strategy?
questions 8 and 9 were not considered admissible.
question no 11 by mr gay mitchell (h-0638/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: iran and the development of nuclear capacity can the council state its position on iran and the potential nuclear threat it poses since it decided to abandon the containment and surveillance measures of the 1997 additional protocol of the international atomic energy agency, which restricts the intrusive powers of inspectors and suspends blitz inspections?
question no 12 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0640/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: european pact for immigration and asylum the establishment of a 'european pact on immigration and asylum' proposed by the french presidency, aims at active political commitment that will unite the eu and its member states around common principles on immigration policies in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility. in this context, can the council state what binding agreements it will propose to the countries bordering the eu, and in particular to the applicant countries (turkey, croatia, fyrom), for third country migrants in transit on their territory, with a view to making europe an area of security, justice and freedom?
question no 13 by alain hutchinson (h-0642/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: reform of the public sector in french television french president nicolas sarkozy has decided to launch a major reform of the public television sector in his country. this reform, which provides for the abolition of all commercial advertising, has provoked significant resistance from workers in this sector and, more generally, from public opinion, which fears the disappearance in the short term of public television, which, once deprived of advertising revenues, will be unable to compete with private television. the fact that france has decided to abolish the public television sector in order to give priority to the private sector, which would be the big winner of this operation, is just one step that many do not hesitate to take. is this a one-off measure or is it an initiative which will be extended to all eu member states? can the council state its position on this matter and whether this reform is in accordance with european legislation?
question time is closed.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have examined two instruments: a regulation and a decision on the migration of sisone4all to sis ii, including the implementation of a global test to assess whether the level of performance of sis ii is equivalent to that of the current system. these proposals result from a change in the migration strategy. four points: first, the initial plan was to migrate 15 member states in a process that should have taken around 8 hours, but this has since been increased to 25 member states, which has made the process much more complex and difficult; second, an interim technical architecture should be created to allow sis 1+ and sis ii to operate in parallel for a limited transitional period. it is a prudent solution which deserves our agreement and which allows us to have a rearguard in case something goes wrong; third, during this transitional period a technical tool, a converter, will be made available which will connect the central system of system i to the central system of sis ii, allowing them to process the same information and ensuring that all member states remain at the same level. finally, the mandate given to the commission in 2001 expires at the end of this year, in 2008. we raised four concerns. firstly, the need for the european commission to continue to have a mandate to develop sis ii until it is operational. we oppose the idea, which has been considered, that the commission's mandate could end with the completion of the work on the c-sis central system. secondly, there should be a clear definition of the responsibilities of the european commission and the member states. third, that all the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 which establishes the legal basis for sis are fulfilled before the data migration takes place. and fourthly, that this migration should be done in a single step, a one-shot, to be processed by all the member states. the proposals which we received on 3 september, the same day as their adoption by coreper, represent major changes compared to the initial proposals. normally, as the texts presented involve substantial changes, parliament should be consulted again. but once again, we are faced with a tight timetable, the commission's mandate expires at the end of 2008 and it is essential that the council approves these proposals by the end of october. parliament once again shows its responsibility, it is not our fault that the procedure is late, the changes introduced in fact answer most of the concerns raised in my draft reports, above all i see that there is a clarification of the responsibilities of the commission and the member states and that the commission will continue to have a mandate for the development of sis ii until it is operational. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the french presidency on the excellent work it has done to reach a good agreement, which seemed difficult, between the commission and the member states. the european parliament wants to help ensure that there are no further delays and that sis ii can be operational by the new date of 30 september 2009. we are concerned because several technicians have informally said that it is very likely that this date will not be respected again. there are two main points which the european parliament considers to be fundamental and which all the political groups support. firstly, that the european parliament be kept informed every six months of the progress of the project; secondly, that the mandate given to the new commission not be an unlimited mandate, that a rule be included requiring the european parliament to be consulted again if there is a delay of more than one year. we sincerely hope that this time the project will be completed in time and that sis ii will be able to start operations on the date planned.
as underlined by different organisations following the process of the communitisation of justice and home affairs, areas which are at the heart of the sovereignty of states, the so-called migration of the schengen information system to its second version extends the characteristics of this information system and database beyond its original purpose, integrating new types of alerts such as the european arrest warrant, adding new categories of data such as biometrics, extending its access to new entities, developing new features and functionalities with interlinking of alerts and its link to the visa information system. the committee also notes the worrying possibility that records may be kept for a long period of time if necessary, and asks who defines this need, and also lays down the too vague field of possible data sharing with third countries. we believe that this extension of the previous system poses risks to the safeguarding of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees, because it adds new elements to a database which will be more shared and accessible. in fact, far beyond the response to enlargement to new countries, the aim is to adapt sis to the dangerous security drift in the context of the growing communitization of internal affairs in the european union, which we reject.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i take the risk of making my final remarks in french to respond to the courtesy of the remarks of minister jouyet and vice-president barrot. so i will now speak in your language to commend you. it was not an easy job to build consensus within the council, but you succeeded. two things are really important to us: the clarity of the division of powers between the european commission and the member states, and the problem of the commission's mandate. the commission's mandate will not be able to end until the sis ii system is fully operational. i also want to thank the council, the commission and all the political groups in the libe committee for the work they have done together in drafting the amendments which we are going to vote on tomorrow. we consider the transparency clause to be very important: citizens have the right to be informed about the schengen system and sis ii. as for the question of the duration of the commission's mandate, an unlimited mandate is not acceptable and we have succeeded in solving that problem. finally, mr president, i would like to explain to those who have expressed a lack of optimism about the system why we like sis ii. we like sis ii because we like freedom of movement in europe. but if we are to have free movement in europe, we must be sure that our external borders are secure. the security of the external borders is a condition of freedom for european citizens and that is why sis ii is needed very quickly.
mr president, this particular case is a clear case in which the concern for the liberalization of international trade must be subordinated to more important objectives, in the present case of an environmental and social nature. the conservation of tropical forests is essential for the ecological balance of the planet and as such we can say without exaggeration that tropical forests are truly a heritage of humanity and that we all have responsibilities in the conservation of tropical forests. the most developed and prosperous countries in particular have responsibilities which they cannot give up. these forests are located in countries which are, for the most part, poor countries, countries which are struggling with enormous difficulties, and all the rhetoric we can produce here is absolutely incapable of working if we are not able to promote development actions directed at these countries. it is absolutely necessary that we support these countries, it is absolutely necessary that the main consumers and the most developed areas in the world, as is clearly the case in the european union, should make efforts to ensure that there are strict mechanisms to monitor how these forests are exploited, but at the same time it is essential that these countries should make efforts to ensure support for the producing countries. these are countries that depend on the rainforest, their economy is largely associated with the forest, rapid deforestation ends up having dramatic consequences from all points of view the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step. we must indeed support, we must have measures that encourage the development, the transformation of the productive structure of these countries, so that they can have a relationship with their forests, with their resources, more suited to their interests and more in line with what are also the most global interests of humanity. and that is a responsibility that the european union has. this deal is going in the right direction: the report does not go far enough, and it has the merit of clearly pointing out these shortcomings, but it does give us some hope for the future.
mr president, the european parliament is represented before the court by its president and, in controversial cases, the president first calls on the full court. this is the case with resources. the new report extends this system to other procedural acts where the president also represents parliament and, in controversial situations, calls on the plenary. but there's something new in the report. the new text introduces the conference of presidents as a decision-making body between the president and the plenary. this solution is not in itself problematic, but it is good to take the opportunity to remind that the european parliament must never lose the classic semantics of parliaments, and must concentrate in the plenary all the final decision-making power. the plenary is sovereign over everything, because it is there that the legitimacy that comes from the ethics of representation is found. it is true that institutions which govern complex and wide-ranging areas, such as the european parliament, often cannot avoid the temptation to bureaucratize their own democratic power. the temptation is often inescapable, but the truth is that we must avoid as much as possible the bureaucratization of democracy, since the effectiveness of good governance can never mean the loss of the space of politics and, much less, the loss of the space of politics for quasi-administrative forms such as committees and, sometimes, conferences. because, to use mirabeau's expression, these are not the true "map of the people".
in this very worrying moment, when the people of our countries in the european union and the world are facing vital challenges, it is unacceptable that the european commission does not put forward proposals that break with the policies that have led to the worsening of the social situation, the increase in unemployment and precarious and low-paid work, the financial, food and energy crisis, which mainly affects the countries with the weakest economies and the most vulnerable sections of the population, the growing militarization of international relations, with all the dangers this poses to world peace. even though it is aware that there is clear opposition and resistance from workers, consumers and users of public services to their privatisation and liberalisation, to unfair reforms in health and social security, to the distribution of income increasingly at the service of economic and financial groups, exacerbating social inequalities, the european commission insists on maintaining and continuing with the same instruments and policies that led to this situation, with particular emphasis on the stability pact and its irrational criteria, the liberal lisbon strategy, the false autonomy of the european central bank, and insists on unspeakable proposals for directives such as the directive on working time. at a time like this, the priority must be to put an end to the process of ratification of the draft treaty of lisbon, to respect democracy, the result of the referendum in ireland, the sovereign decision of its people, which follows the same results in france and the netherlands. it is time for the leaders of the european union to take back the leashes of these votes and of the opposition and resistance of the workers and peoples to neoliberal, militarist and anti-democratic policies. at this stage it is imperative that concrete proposals such as those we have put forward in our group's motion for a resolution be made, including the repeal of the stability pact, the end of privatisation and liberalisation, and a commitment to a monetary policy and a reorientation of the european central bank to give priority to employment with rights, the fight against poverty and social justice, including through a pact for social progress and development. we must give hope to our poor, create jobs with rights for our young people, respect equality for women and equal rights for women.
in writing. - we believe that the schengen area (which does not include all eu countries, let alone all european countries) strengthens the barriers between the countries participating in it and with other countries (in particular, with countries with which portugal has historical links). that said, we cannot ignore the fact that the use of 'freedom of movement' is intended to build an information system and databases that go far beyond this objective, seeking to make it one of the central instruments of support (the 'backbone') to the security offensive (played by the eu) and the progressive communitization of justice and home affairs, areas that are at the heart of the sovereignty of the states. that is, we cannot accept what the presidency of the council of the eu proposes: the system is installed, and its purpose will be defined later. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − this proposal aims to amend the regulatory framework for electronic communications in order to improve its effectiveness, to make access to the frequencies available in the radio spectrum simpler and more efficient, and to reduce the administrative costs necessary to implement the regulation. in this way, european citizens should be able to benefit from more efficient and less expensive communications services wherever they are in the eu, whether they use mobile phones, broadband internet connections or cable television. the new radio spectrum regime aims to promote investment in new infrastructure and to enable all citizens to access broadband. a properly functioning internal market in communications and a competitive information society economy for the benefit of consumers and businesses can only exist if the telecommunications regulatory framework is applied consistently. to this end, the commission's coordination role should be strengthened, acting in close cooperation with the nras and the new european authority (bert), in order to improve coherence both in national decisions with an impact on the internal market and in the imposition of remedies. i therefore support this report and the main amendments which seek to widen the consumer's choice by strengthening competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the catherine trautmann report on electronic communications networks and services because i believe it is essential to improve the legislative framework for electronic communications by providing consumers with more choice, better protection, a cheaper service and better quality. together with the creation of a new european telecoms regulatory body, this new legislative framework will better protect consumers' private data, increase competition, provide more choice for consumers and make contractual terms clearer. it should also be noted that the package will facilitate access to telecommunications services for people with disabilities.
in writing. - we know that, like other natural resources, spectrum is a public good. so this is an area that should be kept in public management to ensure that it serves the public interest. only in this way would it be possible to provide public goods which are indispensable for the realisation of an information society for all. hence our basic disagreement with the resolution and the vote against the final text. experience has shown that so-called combined (political and market) approaches always end up serving the interests of economic groups more than the interests of the population. the same applies to the allocation of the spectrum freed up by the digital transition, where the priority should be social, cultural and economic value (better public service, wireless broadband to underserved areas, growth and employment, etc.) rather than the increase of public revenues. spectrum management is the exclusive responsibility of each national state, but there are some aspects of the resolution which deserve our agreement, given that spectrum knows no borders and that efficient use of spectrum in the member states and coordination at eu level are useful, particularly in the development of services and in the negotiation of international agreements. but we disagree that the same approach should be used as in trade policy.
in writing. − the liberalisation of telecommunications, which began in 2001, has unleashed european markets, which are now more competitive, innovative and highly profitable. european consumers have undoubtedly been the main beneficiaries of this development, with more and better services, forms and content becoming increasingly accessible. it was a technological, economic and socio-cultural (re) evolution. despite this frankly positive balance, we cannot rest on our laurels. there are still bottlenecks to the creation of a genuine integrated market, mainly due to disparities in the implementation of european regulation by each national regulatory authority (nra). i therefore support the creation of bert, the european telecommunications regulatory body, as an updated and strengthened version of the council of european regulators for electronic communications networks and services (erg), which is responsible for the most consistent application of the regulation and which has the effective participation of nras with valuable daily experience in the field. the establishment of bert promotes a consistent eu-wide regulatory approach to the remedial actions taken by nras, with full independence from governments and industry. bert will also perform functions in the field of consumer awareness. the eu has already had cause for satisfaction in this respect when it recalls its intervention to bring down the price of roaming substantially.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to promote coordinated action at eu level to ensure effective use of the digital dividend. the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial television by the end of 2012, when the increased efficiency of digital terrestrial television spectrum is expected to allow for a considerable release of spectrum, should create a unique opportunity for the eu to open up new possibilities for market growth, expansion of quality and choice of services to consumers. it is hoped that this will enable the ems to unlock their digital dividends as quickly as possible, so that european citizens can benefit from a whole new set of innovative and competitive services. member states should determine the use of the digital dividend and ensure that all types of electronic communications services are offered in the available radio frequency bands in accordance with their national radio frequency plan and the international telecommunication union regulations. however, it is essential that there is a coordinated community approach in order to avoid harmful interference between member states and between member states and third countries. it should also allow for the maximisation of the benefits of the use of that spectrum, ensuring optimal use from a social and economic point of view.
in writing. - it is symptomatic that the european parliament has not been able to adopt any resolution on the priorities of the european commission's programme. it is true that we are approaching the elections to the european parliament, and this is already influencing the decisions, especially those who want to whitewash their behaviour and their responsibilities in the policies that have led to the worsening of the social situation, the increase in unemployment and precarious and low-paid work, the financial, food and energy crisis that mainly affects the countries with the weakest economies and the most vulnerable sections of the population, the growing militarization of international relations, with all the dangers this poses to world peace. but at the same time they do not want to accept the need for a break with the policies that gave rise to it. they prefer that the european commission continue with the same instruments and policies that led to this situation, albeit with some pink and green touches to fuel illusions. we therefore insist on the proposals contained in our group's resolution, including the repeal of the stability pact, the end of privatisation and liberalisation, priority for employment with rights, the solution of the problem of poverty and social justice.
in writing. − 2009 will be marked by commission activity conditional on the timing of the european elections and, consequently, on the least possible opportunity for action, in particular by one of the institutions. this is not, however, an obstacle to a realistic business plan. the world requires a paradigm shift, an understanding that reality has far outgrown many of the theoretical debates about economic and social models, about the multiple polarities in international relations (both at the level of hard power and economic powers or the relations of trade forces). we must hope that the commission will respond to this new reality with a long-term vision that is flexible and adaptable in its implementation; at the same time we want an agenda for 2009 that helps to make clear to the voters in each member state the importance and the benefits of union policies for our economies and societies. this demonstration, which is much more a result of the quality of policies than of communication issues, must be the focus of our activity and, consequently, of the activity of the european commission. unfortunately, the resolution put to the vote did not reflect this approach, and i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the preparation of the eu-india summit because i believe it is essential to adapt the strategic partnership with india, adopted in 2004, to the new challenges facing the eu and india, such as the food crisis, the energy crisis and climate change. i would stress that the resolution encourages india to continue its efforts to achieve the millennium development goals, particularly in the area of gender equality. it is also important that the resolution reminds india of the values of the european union, calling on the indian government to abolish the death penalty.
in writing. - in addition to the possible assessment of many other issues raised by this resolution, we consider it essential to underline that we are unquestioning advocates of deepening real and effective relations of cooperation and friendship between the countries that make up the eu and india. that is, a relationship based on responding to the needs of different peoples, which is mutually beneficial and contributes to mutual development, respecting the principle of non-interference and respect for national sovereignty. on the basis of these principles and assumptions, we naturally cannot agree with many of the proposals in this resolution, particularly as regards the establishment of a so-called 'free trade' agreement, which aims to include, among other things, an 'agreement on services', 'competition', 'public procurement' and 'the abolition of the current restrictions on direct investment' between the eu and india. this proposal (and its objective) seeks to respond to the expansionist aspirations of the major economic and financial groups - which have not been realised at the level of the wto negotiations aimed at liberalizing world trade - whose urgent need is to increase the accumulation and centralisation of capital. a move which is contrary to the needs of the workers and peoples of india and the various countries of the eu.
in writing. - sometimes it is necessary to remember that india is the largest democracy in the world in terms of population. this, coupled with its economic vitality and its growing role in international relations - first and foremost in that region - suggests that we rethink our relationship with this important partner. it would, of course, be a mistake to ignore the fragility of indian democracy, its economic structure or its social organization. so it should be considered that in our relationship with this country these aspects should be at the top of the agenda. however, this agenda must be broader and, above all, more in line with new realities and circumstances. strengthening political ties and getting closer to this giant must be seen as strategic. we must also be attentive and ready to strengthen india's role in the concert of nations, particularly in terms of institutional architecture and framework. if it is common to say that the 21st century will be the century of the pacific - a question which should receive the greatest attention in europe - it is worth adding the indic to this prophecy. and adapt our strategies accordingly.
what conclusions can we draw from the present crisis? it is the result of the choice not to monitor adequately the activity of the financial markets. competent regulation does not kill the market, on the contrary, it is indispensable to its survival. there are actors responsible for the losses, but today it is the citizens who pay the bill for their excesses and the failures of public oversight. the warning was given long ago. the rasmussen report, which this parliament adopted yesterday by a very large majority, makes precise proposals on the risks of excessive leverage, the lack of transparency, conflicts of interest, but it is the result of the work of the socialist group which was started years before the crisis of 2007 began. the own-initiative report by ieke van den burg and dăianu is in the same vein. the european union is a major partner in the international context, and i congratulate commissioner almunia on the announcements he has brought here today; but does commissioner mccreevy share them? the paralysis which the commission has had in these matters is not justifiable. parliament does its job. the other institutions should also act in a similar way.
mr president, the present financial crisis, which in the short term will be economic and will not cease to be social, possibly political, was anticipated because it was foreseeable. it is a pity that ultra-liberal dogmatism and the economy of financial speculation, the so-called 'devil's economy', have overcome the social conceptions and the economy of entrepreneurship and action, which is the only one capable of generating wealth and serving the citizens. the regulation has failed, commissioner almunia said recently. well, if it failed, it should be radically replaced after being penalized. the crisis in the world financial system is structural, commissioner almunia also said. it is not enough to use the political instruments at our disposal today. the attitude of the european central bank, which insists on the application of remedies that the present disease refuses, the panglossian autism of some members of the ecofin council, who were only surprised by the scale of the crisis 15 days ago, the attitude of commissioner mccreevy, who proposes to change something so that everything stays the same, are unacceptable. the commission now has the responsibility to use all its instruments and to put pressure on the member states to create new ones. it is particularly responsible for taking account of the correct and ambitious recommendations which the european parliament has made to it following the rasmussen report.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 25 september 2008. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. we have recently experienced an escalation in fuel prices that was unheard of, largely as a result of speculation by companies that posted very high profits, the result of speculative appreciation of oil stocks bought at lower prices. this outrageous rise has worsened the living conditions of the general population, especially the economically weaker sections, and has had a devastating effect on economic activity in the various sectors: transport and other services, industry, agriculture and fisheries. however, despite the significant fall in crude oil prices, high price practices continue in several countries, which are a burden on consumers. this should lead to the creation by each member state of a tax exclusively on extraordinary and speculative profits, so that they are returned to the coffers of the states and thus help to support the sectors and populations most affected by the situation. but the big changes should be structural, stopping the liberalisation of the energy sector, bearing in mind that this is a strategic sector for development, so it must be a nationalised sector, in order to ensure public policies that serve the national interests and the general population.
mr president, this is a very important debate and i should like to start by welcoming the commission's initiative and mr foglietta's report. anorexia has been talked about more than obesity, even though obesity is becoming a real global epidemic. more than 50% of europeans are overweight and about 6% of healthcare expenditure is related to obesity these figures have already been mentioned here. childhood obesity continues to rise, with 22 million european children suffering from overweight. the fight against obesity must be a political priority for the european union. i therefore agree with the general measures proposed: consumer information, restriction of television advertising, nutritional and health claims on food labelling. people need to be made aware that obesity is a leading cause of death and is associated with many chronic diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disorders, bone and joint problems, respiratory diseases and cancer. we need to act and fast. the solution is known: more exercise and more careful eating. the exact opposite of what most people do. sandwiches and sodas, sweets and snacks should not be eaten every day, and a sedentary lifestyle is not good for your health. exercise can be walking at least half an hour a day, it does not require much effort, nor does it cost money, but it works. it's important for adults and it's fundamental for children. many parents are not even aware of the harm they are doing to their children by letting them spend their free time in front of the television or the computer, eating what they should not, without any kind of monitoring or control. the fight against obesity requires a concerted effort, involving schools, families and the productive, health and social sectors - each with its own responsibility. the role of the family in changing habits is decisive. it is the responsibility of the school to ensure that the quality and nutritional content of school meals is monitored, by prohibiting the sale of fatty, overly salty or sugary products in bars and vending machines, and at the same time to facilitate and promote physical activity among pupils.
mr president, it is important to have a global and integrated view of nutrition, overweight and obesity, since there are multiple factors involved where the issues of food poverty, malnutrition and lack of information on healthy eating are of particular importance. the issue of ensuring healthy food is therefore of particular importance and public policies should ensure that everyone has access to healthy food, which requires the provision of a range of measures to ensure the quality and proximity of agricultural production of quality foodstuffs, including milk, fruit and vegetables, and their distribution to people with limited economic resources. on the other hand, a different common agricultural policy, based on the defence of family farming and the creation of local markets for fruit, vegetables and other basic foodstuffs, the production of which is duly supported, can guarantee healthy food at affordable prices to the general population. there are proposals to provide some support for the distribution of fruit and vegetables in schools, it is essential to increase the amount the european commission proposes for this programme so as to ensure that it is distributed daily and free of charge to all school-age children and not just one day a week, as is the case now. but just as importantly, a whole range of public health policies and programmes must be put in place to make nutrition a priority, including health information and education campaigns, the promotion of healthy diets and lifestyles, including physical education and sport, ensuring that they are available to the general population, with particular emphasis on children and young people, particularly in schools.
in writing. - although we agree with several points in this resolution on the so-called 'area of freedom, security and justice' - a euphemism for the actual process of the com munitization of justice and home affairs (jha), which are sovereign competences of the states - it contains a set of objectives, priorities and proposals which we reject in the strongest terms. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the lisbon treaty, and for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the lisbon treaty. the commission has also been active in the field of immigration policy, and has been involved in the preparation of the schengen information system (including the decisions on the prüm treaty), frontex and the eu's immigration policy (which is selective, security-oriented and criminalises immigration). the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. - with the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which does not accept individual amendments under these conditions, it was not the mikko report that was finally voted on, but an overall alternative motion for a resolution. the final resolution adopted is clearly better than the report, and for that reason alone we voted in favour of it, but it retains some of the wording with which we disagree. our main disagreement is with the way it treats a pseudo-balance in the interlinkage between so-called 'competition law' and media law, insofar as experience has shown that the interests of capital override all rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression in the media, often putting pluralism in question. although it is stated elsewhere that 'the main objectives of public authorities should be to create conditions that ensure a high level of quality of the media (including those in the public sector), as well as to ensure their diversity and the full independence of journalists', it is known that this is difficult to achieve when the role of the democratic state is weak. the truth is that the ownership of the main media by the economic and financial groups does not guarantee freedom of expression or the independence of journalists.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because by highlighting the discrepancy between the value of crude oil on international markets and the final price of fuels, it manages to address this sensitive issue without being demagogic as has been the case with some governments, such as the portuguese. in portugal, minister manuel pinho revealed not only his profound disorientation (and the limitation of his powers to intervene) but an unacceptable intrusion into the independence of the regulator. they are wishful thinking in a pre-election context. i reject any administrative fixing of prices and any harmonisation of fuel taxes at european level. i accept tax intervention (vat and psi) as long as it is temporary and selective in favour of the most affected households and industrial sectors. the solution, i believe, is essentially to strengthen the existing regulation on oil companies. the competition authority is not expected to follow the minister's statements or consumer complaints, but to act within its powers of initiative and overcome the climate of mistrust in its capacity to monitor the oil sector. the portuguese public deserves full clarification of the absence of anti-competitive pricing practices. as it is confirmed, the adc is required to intervene impartially and to impose exemplary sanctions.
in writing. − the serious public health problem of obesity and overweight should be tackled as a priority from the earliest stages of life this report calls on member states, local authorities and school authorities to monitor and improve the quality and nutritional standards of school meals. nutritional information on foods is important, in particular the distinction between natural trans fatty acids, present in meat and dairy products, and those produced during industrial (artificial) processing. indiscriminate labelling of trans fats will only confuse the consumer, create a negative image for healthy dairy products and have undesirable effects on consumption, harming public health (e.g. reduction of intake of important nutrients such as calcium and protein). european indicators (e.g. waist measurement) are useful in monitoring the degree of risk of the population for various obesity-related diseases. understanding how abdominal obesity is distributed allows planning more effective actions to reduce this problem. i agree with the existence of colour codes for food labelling because, more than clear and easily understandable labelling, european citizens need interpretative elements to make healthy choices.
in writing. − overweight and diet-related diseases are a serious public health problem, and the fight against obesity should be a priority from the earliest stages of life. the foglietta report is very relevant in calling on member states, local authorities and school authorities to monitor and improve the quality and nutritional standards of school meals. i believe that nutritional information should always be given on foods, in particular the indication of artificial trans fats, since these are the ones that have the most negative effects on health. failure to distinguish between artificial and natural trans fats would mislead consumers and would only contribute to a negative image of certain animal foods containing natural trans fats, such as meat and dairy products. i also voted in favour of the development of european indicators such as waist measurement and others indicating risk factors associated with obesity because i believe that these may be used in the future to assess the risk situation of the population and the success of the measures implemented.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. despite the more or less emotional words about the financial crisis and the crises associated with it, effective measures to deal with them are still lagging behind. even when they accept some specific measures which they refused to take a few months ago, such as the nationalisation of failed banks because of the mismanagement of their directors and some of their main shareholders, who have collected the profits and huge profits and left the losses to the public, they always do so in defence of big capital, without taking the interests of workers and the most deprived people into account. they don't get to the bottom of it. don't end up with tax havens. they do not put an end to the false autonomy of the european central bank. don't blow up the stability pact. they do not approve of a pact of solidarity and social progress. the very cut in the ecb's key rate is late, after a blindness that has already cost the weakest economies and the populations indebted to the banks a great deal. the question of the most important issues is therefore on the table, which calls into question the neoliberal policies which have given the highest priority to free competition, to the worsening of the exploitation of workers, to the increase in the problems of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. the next council must make a clear break with neoliberal policies.
the report by mrs ieke van den burg and mr daniel dăianu, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the follow-up to the lamfalussy case: future supervisory structure [2008/2148 (ini) ] (a6-0359/2008) is reproduced below.
in writing. in the absence of effective mechanisms at european level, we are witnessing a cascade of often disjointed and even competitive emergency financial interventions by different countries. action at european level is reactive, 'a posteriori', trying to avoid greater damage, citizens' confidence in europe is weakened. regulation must be thought of in times of prosperity; neither the citizens nor we, their elected representatives, understand the apathy in the face of the many concrete initiatives of this parliament. today, in the midst of turbulence, is not the right time to be assessing responsibility. one conclusion is certain, however: the rules of the system must be changed. the text we are voting on tomorrow is a key element in the better regulation and supervision of financial markets in the european union. it is a proactive response from this parliament; not a reaction to recent events - they only came, unfortunately, to confirm its relevance. many of those who were politically opposed to a minimum of transparency, regulation and supervision of the new financial instruments have now either kept silent or changed their tune. we hope that the commission will finally take up its responsibilities as an initiator, strengthening the european financial institutions and helping to restore some of the citizens' confidence.
there are cases of closures of companies in portugal, particularly in the textile and clothing sectors, with particular emphasis on the north of the country, such as oliveira ferreira textile in riba de ave, several in the barcelos, santo tirso and fafe areas, but also recently the factory of the multinational lee in évora, in addition to the threat to workers in many others, such as vila nova de gaia and lousada. in this context of redundancies, using the threat of unemployment, hundreds of other companies do not comply with labour legislation, pay lower wages than the legal ones, discriminate against young people and women, as recently denounced by a study released by the union of textile, clothing, footwear and leather workers of the district of porto regarding the sub-regions of tâmega and sousa. it is therefore of particular importance to know what the european commission intends to do with the system of double surveillance of trade with china, which expires at the end of this year, in view of the need to protect production and employment with rights in our countries.
on behalf of the pse group. the conclusion of the agreement now under discussion is an excellent opportunity to recall the importance of the relations which in many sectors link the european union to ukraine. these relations, which have been intensifying, are based on a heritage of common values and principles and a reiterated desire to strengthen partnership and cooperation at institutional level. the european union cannot but look with admiration at the efforts of the ukrainian people to consolidate democracy, the rule of law and an open economy. this effort, carried out in particularly demanding circumstances, increases our responsibility to that country and to ourselves. we are all aware of the uniqueness of ukraine, which, because of its geographical location and its history, is a complex national reality, crossed by various tensions, endowed with exceptional importance in the geopolitical and geoeconomic spheres. the european union must therefore strive to promote forms of cooperation which contribute to the development and stabilisation of such an important country, which is what is happening. the progress made and the solidly formulated prospects, based on the conclusion in the short term of an association agreement incorporating the creation of a free trade area, allow us to cultivate serious optimism. we have an obligation on the part of the european union not to ignore the demand expressed by very wide sections of ukrainian society to strengthen ties with the european area. this aspiration is based on a desire to integrate ukraine into a community of values and the model of political and economic organisation which constitute the core of europe's identity. the increase in trade, particularly in the services sector, is helping to deepen economic relations and can play a decisive role in the modernization of the country. the accession of ukraine to the world trade organisation, which has received the enthusiastic support of the european union, has brought about its integration into the multilateral system of world trade, which, among other things, also facilitates the rapprochement with the european area. this rapprochement must be intensified, since this will not only bring advantages to the two parties directly involved but will also bring benefits to the whole region. ukraine is part of europe's memory and future. any small step that is taken that accentuates this evidence deserves to be welcomed and supported.
on behalf of the pse group. on behalf of my group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this is an important report, containing appropriate proposals for the european union to meet the challenge of water scarcity and droughts. the problem is not new, but it has been growing and widening. the 2003 drought affected more than 100 million people and a third of the union's territory and cost the european economy €8.7 billion. water scarcity is no longer limited to the countries of southern europe, but is also felt in central and northern europe, as mentioned here, and the situation is likely to worsen as a result of climate change. the european union must take urgent action to tackle these two problems: excessive water consumption and water waste. according to data from the european environment agency, there is a huge potential for water saving in europe. about 40% of the water used could be saved. on the other hand, europe continues to waste at least 20% of its water due to inefficiencies. in view of this, the amendments which i tabled and which the committee on the environment approved, on the reuse of waste water and desalination, are fully justified. and because leaks in pipelines cause a lot of waste, i proposed that the member states use the structural funds to upgrade and renew existing infrastructure and technologies. you can't develop a water-saving culture without the citizens. public awareness and education campaigns are therefore needed. water is a public good, but it's scarce. to make it affordable and accessible to all, everyone must play their part in reducing consumption and waste. before i conclude, i would like to ask the council and the commission when the mechanisms for supporting the solidarity fund will be made more flexible. since drought is an anomalous natural phenomenon with severe and lasting repercussions on living conditions and socioeconomic stability in the affected regions, it is desirable that the fund can support regional situations and that public and private losses are eligible.
yesterday, here in the house, the anthem of europe could have joined the tears of ingrid betancourt. the anthem would culminate in the cry of a collective sharing of memory and will. no human project is without a symbolic dimension, from the power of words with which we govern the peoples of europe here to the rituals of political representation that sit us left and right in the dialectic of parliamentary debate. there is no story without symbols. the words, the flag, the anthem or the motto. the universal project of europe cannot be forged in the collective imagination without the chemistry of symbols, because symbols designate not only the world we have but also the world we want to have. they connect reason and emotion, the deepest part of us. their value comes from the identity process they trigger. how can the gigantic european project, based on the transcendent value of human dignity, with a global outlook, a leader in rights, be without a symbolic dimension? european thought leaves us with a vast record of the meaning of symbols. politics cannot ignore it, because politics carries with it all the dimensions of the human being in what he also has of ideal and sublime.
i would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a typo in the pse voting list and i would ask the members to follow the coordinator's vote.
in writing. - another "typical" report... the report states that 'communication is an important element of both representative and participatory democracy'. it is indeed 'concerned' - that is the most sympathetic way of describing it - with the results of the referendums which rejected the proposed treaty, now called 'the lisbon treaty', and explicitly with the one held in ireland. the majority of meps therefore decided to endorse the joint declaration entitled 'partnership for the communication of europe', in which three eu institutions (council, european commission and ep) agreed to a propaganda crusade - which, it is warned, will take place during the next elections to the european parliament - on the assumption that the growing rejection and awareness of the class character and the big interests behind eu policies, as evidenced in the referendums held, will be combated by the conditioning and control of the media agenda. what is at issue is an attempt to conceal or obscure the real content of eu policies and decision-making when they clash with the interests of workers and other social strata in the different eu countries. and so, by using the word 'democracy' and 'communication' demagogically, what the report really intends to do is to call them into question.
in writing. - i support this initiative to extend once again the agreement (of june 2002) on the free movement of persons between switzerland and the eu to include romania and bulgaria. this enlargement will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the promotion of new employment and investment opportunities and on the economic growth of all the countries involved, in particular by increasing the volume of trade between them. special transitional periods of up to 7 years shall be provided for, during which switzerland shall be entitled to maintain quantitative limits for employees and self-employed persons of romanian or bulgarian nationality, in order to gradually facilitate the access of nationals of these countries to the swiss labour market and to increase the entry of these new workers every year, taking into account the needs of the market and the supply of labour available on swiss territory. the same quantitative limits may also be applied by romania and bulgaria in respect of swiss nationals for the same periods. after that period, any quotas may be reintroduced only if the necessary conditions laid down in the safeguard clause, which may only be applied until 2019, are fulfilled.
in writing. − since 2005, the commission has put forward a number of legislative initiatives to regulate and facilitate the exchange of criminal records, putting an end to a time-consuming and basically ineffective system that operated on the basis of the mechanisms provided for by the 1959 council of europe convention. the first improvement was introduced by the 2005 decision on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record, in particular as regards the shortening of the transmission deadlines. in 2007, the council reached a political agreement on a framework decision to ensure that each member state can respond in the most complete and correct way to requests for criminal records submitted to it concerning its nationals. the present initiative is not intended to change the basic principles of this framework decision, but to complement it. it aims to create a computerised system for the exchange of information on convictions between member states, namely the european criminal records information system (ecris). there are still 27 distinct legal systems with different legal and social sensitivities, but an attempt has been made to find a common ground to enable the system to be applied in practice. in this context, in order to ensure adequate data protection, it is once again clear that there is an urgent need to adopt the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, which i have repeatedly called for.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission states that the central objective is to 'strengthen the european area of security and justice' and that 'information on previous convictions should circulate among judges, prosecutors and police authorities'. as stated, 'the objective presupposes the systematic exchange between the competent authorities of the member states of information extracted from national criminal records in such a way as to ensure the uniform interpretation of that information and the effectiveness of such exchanges'. we believe that, where necessary, the transfer of information extracted from the criminal records of citizens from one member state to another should be carried out on the basis of (bilateral) cooperation between the parties involved. however, among other issues whose scope and implications should be assessed, the report introduces obligations for the member states, as part of the communityisation of justice and home affairs to a level that goes beyond the basis of cooperation between member states, which we point out. we obviously recognise the need for mechanisms for the reciprocal transmission of information on criminal records between different member states, analysing each case and within a framework of cooperation between them.
in writing. - we know that the percentage of working poor is increasing, reflecting the growth of precarious and low-paid work. this question should therefore be at the heart of the concerns of those responsible for the european union. wages in general and minimum wages in particular irrespective of whether they are defined by law or by collective agreements must ensure a decent standard of living. it is important that this report has been adopted, but it was regrettable that the majority did not allow it to be debated in plenary. the promotion of social inclusion and the fight against poverty, including child poverty in the eu, is still a troubling issue, as they want to avoid being confronted with the numbers. it says that there are 20 million people in the eu, mostly women, that is 6% of the total population, who are working poor, and that 36% of the working population is at risk of being classed as working poor. among the recommendations in the report, the european parliament calls on member states to reduce child poverty by 50% by 2012 and to adopt a european-wide commitment to end homelessness by 2015.
in writing. − the fight against poverty is a priority objective of any democratic society, based on the dignity of the human person together with the participation of all citizens in the development of societies. measures taken to date have not yet achieved the desired results of drastically reducing social exclusion and poverty. a global approach is lacking to a problem of global scope and complexity with damaging social and economic consequences for society as a whole. promoting economic growth as the first objective for a prosperous, equitable and environmentally sustainable future for europe requires income support to avoid social exclusion, linking to inclusive labour markets, better access to quality services and the active participation of all citizens. we cannot accept that 16% of the european population is at risk of poverty, that one in five europeans lives in unhealthy housing or that one in ten europeans lives in a household where no one has a job - and that is a very serious problem. these are the reasons for our continuing fight against poverty, a scourge that threatens us all and prevents the future healthy growth of our societies.
in writing. - nothing better than the explanatory statement accompanying this report to demonstrate what is really at stake and, consequently, to justify our vote against. the rapporteur states that ukraine's accession to the wto paves the way for the creation of a comprehensive eu-ukraine free trade area, including other commitments in trade in services, and that to achieve this goal, ukraine must carry out internal reforms and hold ambitious talks with the eu. and, based on this premise, he points to examples: - '...to accelerate the future integration of ukraine's transport infrastructure, in particular as regards ports and waterways, into the european transport network ...'; - 'the full inclusion of ukraine in the 'single european sky', which may entail partial liberalisation of aviation-related activities, including airports ...'; - '...insists that a properly functioning energy market and an efficient transit policy for oil and gas are necessary preconditions for ukraine's full integration into the eu energy system...'; - 'the conclusion of the zcl makes it possible not only to eliminate restrictions on capital movements but also to remove restrictions on financial services ...'; more words for what...
in writing. for the umpteenth time, they are not counting on us to whitewash the exercises of hypocrisy and the most blatant interference. the resolution also calls for the eu to be given the right to intervene in the elections of the president of the republic, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament and the president of the commission. but the fundamental question is: what is the moral value of a parliament which judges elections in different countries on the basis of the geostrategic, political and economic interests of the major powers of the eu? the non-recognition of the palestinian elections results is a reminder... remember the exhortation of the election results in georgia... it's just cynicism. what is the moral value of a parliament which insists on adopting a draft treaty that was rejected by the french and dutch peoples in 2005 and by the irish people in 2008, in defiance of their democratically and sovereignly expressed will? what is the moral character of a parliament which, in this very plenary session, approves a report which seeks to impose the so-called 'symbols of the union' when it does not even legally exist, and after these have been removed from the text of the draft treaty?
in writing. - belarus is a clear challenge to the european union's aims of serving as a promoter of democracy in the world, and in particular in its neighbours. in the theoretical discussion of this matter we are among those who believe that the promotion of democracy is as just and meritorious in itself as the defence of one's own interest. for this reason, apart from the short-term issues which are of the greatest importance (such as the release of political prisoners or some slight improvement in the quality of the electoral process), i think it is important to stress that what we are concerned with is answering the question: what can the eu do to promote democracy in its neighbouring countries? what mechanisms does the eu have (and, more importantly, what mechanisms should it have) to this end? if we want to have democratic neighbours and we do not have the leverage of the expectation of membership to reach out to everyone, then which way should we go?
in writing. - cat hiding with his tail out... the commissioner also stressed that the eu's role in the global economy was to ensure that the world economy was able to cope with the challenges of the global financial crisis and to ensure that the world economy was able to meet the challenges of the global financial crisis. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the middle east calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further destabilised. however, and despite their continuous efforts, the economic dominance agenda of the major financial and economic groups in the eu has so far been met with growing contradictions and the interests of developing countries. the eu's real intentions are also evident from the content of the bilateral 'free trade' agreements it intends to impose on the acp (africa, caribbean and pacific), latin american and asian countries.
in writing. the successive deadlocks in the doha round are bad news for the world. the economy is going global whether governments like it or not. the question is whether the national authorities want to regulate globalisation, to encourage and stimulate the mechanisms for the success of this process of global enrichment. if the response is positive, as we advocate, then more trade, more transparency, more clarity and predictability in the rules must be promoted. the impasse in the doha round benefits neither the developed nor the developing countries. it does not promote more wealth or increase confidence in a time of turbulence in the world economy. for these reasons, this statement on the need to pursue with determination the processes leading to an increase in international trade deserves our agreement. it is a good sign that the european parliament remains enthusiastic about the virtues and virtualities of trade.
in writing. the european parliament's majority, by adopting this report - by 503 votes in favour, 96 against and 15 abstentions - is another example of its profound disregard for democracy and the sovereignty of the people. the aim is to impose the so-called 'symbols of the union', in this case by incorporating them into the ep's rules of procedure, which now stipulate that the flag is to be hoisted in all the ep buildings, in the meeting rooms and at official events, that the anthem is to be played at constituent sessions and other formal sessions and that the motto 'united in diversity' is to be reproduced in the ep's official documents. it refers to 'the importance of symbols in bringing citizens of the european union closer together and in building a european identity complementary to the national identities of the member states'. the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome. what hypocrisy. the european parliament has been asked to draw up a draft treaty on the subject of the european union. what cynicism. in the end, it is just another manoeuvre to revive the rejected and double-dead draft treaty and its contents.
in writing. - we disagree with the logic underlying the idea that water management should be market-based and that, as such, price (tariffs) should be the central instrument for disciplining consumption. the report mentions the need for return on investment as if that were part or all of the solution to the shortage problem. which is not true. of course, losses, river basin planning, the reuse of 'grey water', the exchange between states and the gradual establishment of an observatory appear as concerns or proposals laden with apparent good intentions. however, it does not depart from the framework established by the water framework directive, which establishes the application of economic and financial principles to water management, without safeguarding its main conditions: its enshrinement as a right and its democratic management. there are, however, concerns raised which should be taken into account, although questioning eu policy. the direct link between forestry and agricultural policy, between rampant urbanisation and desertification and drought is established in the report. however, the cap is never called into question as the primary source of desertification in countries such as portugal.
in writing. - we regard as particularly negative the rejection of amendments to this resolution which stressed 'the risks linked to the possible use of the arctic for strategic or military purposes and the need for this region to become a demilitarised and denuclearised zone' or which expressed 'particular concern about the current rush for arctic natural resources, which could lead to the emergence of security threats ... and a situation of international instability'. the resolution, although it includes points which we regard as positive, is part of a race to the natural resources of this continent, particularly when it states that the far north must 'be part of the european union's policy on the 'northern dimension' and when it expresses 'its conviction that the perception of the importance of the arctic in a global context needs to be deepened, which could result from the adoption of an autonomous community policy for that region'. or when it calls on the commission to 'put arctic energy and security policy at the top of its priority list' and to 'take a proactive role in the arctic, at least, and above all, by taking observer status in the arctic council'.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. financial stability must be secured now and measures against systemic risks must be put in place in the long term. global problems require coordinated solutions on a global scale. international cooperation is essential to ensure and restore the credibility of markets. the european union is no exception and the solution to the problems we are facing cannot depend on individual initiatives in each member state, but requires concerted action. more cohesion is essential at the level of the member states of the european union. after urgent intervention in the short term, there is an urgent need to undertake institutional reform of the financial system in order to stabilise the economy, revive economic growth and enhance the best that financial innovation has to offer. it is important to ensure that there is more transparency and better financial information using the technology we have. only then can more and more people have access to better financial practices, products and services. innovation and financial markets must promote greater consumer protection.
in writing. − the european union is facing a crisis of confidence fuelled by disorientation, lack of transparency, lack of leadership and the impotence of the european institutions. disorientation, because there is still no clear idea of how the crisis will end; lack of transparency, because financial markets have been proving more opaque than previously thought; lack of leadership, because whereas the us has managed to convey an image of pragmatism showing that it does not want to lose control of the situation, europe has given an image of being torn and even contradictory. we are powerless because each member state continues to do as it pleases. so far, not even a common value for deposit guarantee have been able to hit. if the states that share the single currency cannot put in place supranational aid mechanisms, we are faced with a situation that could be devastating for the euro itself. the situation is exceptional and global, and it requires exceptional and global responses, but above all urgent ones. because we are facing a crisis of confidence, which can only be regained through urgent and concerted action. the european parliament has done its job. i hope the council will be able to cope with the situation which is indeed an emergency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the alojz peterle report on the health strategy for 2008-2013, as i believe that ensuring a high level of protection of citizens' health throughout their lives should be a priority for the eu. i repeat the recommendations in this report, in particular the proposals i have put forward, which call for the development of prevention plans and actions to promote healthy lifestyles throughout the eu, stressing the importance of screening programmes to facilitate early detection and prompt treatment of the disease, thus reducing associated mortality and morbidity. i also stress the need to improve the quality of healthcare and care provision, taking into account the increasing prevalence of chronic diseases and the increasing ageing of the european population.
in writing. − the white paper on health in the european union raises very important questions for the future of europe and, above all, for the paradigm shifts that will take place in the future functioning of our societies. i therefore agree with mr peterle when he draws attention to the aspects linked to the new challenges, namely population ageing, climate change, globalisation and mobility - and i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, we must take into account the current health trends of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity and cancer. prevention policies are thus of the utmost importance and it is therefore essential to establish a clear picture of the current circumstances, taking into account the situation in the 27 member states and examining any existing inequalities between social groups and between member states, in order to be able to adopt cross-sectoral health policies which will create the conditions for the effective development of health policy.
the new proposal for a directive which we are debating today, madam president, while proclaiming the principle of equal treatment for workers in terms of working conditions, maximum working time and weekly rest periods, allows for a number of exceptions which in practice can call into question these same principles, especially when what is needed is to combat the proliferation of temporary employment agencies and to reduce this to a minimum in order to stop precarious work and prevent workers' rights from being further undermined. we therefore insist, through the introduction of a set of amendments, on ensuring that, for example, the use of temporary agency work should be restricted to exceptional situations, such as times of extraordinary activity and periods of temporary incapacity of the permanent worker; that temporary agency workers should be able to enjoy the labour rights and social protection conferred on other workers, including the rights enshrined in the collective agreements of the sector in which they work; that temporary agency work should not be used to undermine the right to strike; that the same provisions on safety, hygiene and health at work should apply to temporary agency workers as to the workers of the employing undertaking.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with this report, which closes a pending matter from 2002. i think that this is a balanced situation which protects temporary workers, makes the labour market more flexible and respects the principle of subsidiarity. this proposal ensures, as a general rule, equal treatment of temporary agency workers from day one, but also offers the possibility for the social partners, if they so wish, to agree otherwise. given the diversity of practices and legislation in this field between the member states, it is encouraging that parliament, the council and the commission have reached agreement. this agreement is reflected in a stable framework for temporary employment agencies, whose role in the european labour market is undeniable. this increased regulatory transparency could facilitate job creation as well as the flexibility of new forms of work. i am well aware that economic developments require greater flexibility in the labour market, but i believe that this flexibility will only be to the advantage of all if it is achieved by respecting the rights of workers in all respects, and in particular those relating to health and safety at the workplace. in my view, the final result of the text of this directive is a good example of this balance. i hope, mr minister, that you will be able to say the same about the working time directive in december. i am grateful to mr harlem désir for his work and to the shadow rapporteur of my political family, mrs elisabeth morin, whom i congratulate on having made a major contribution to this final result.
madam president, mr barrot, i am a witness to the work that mrs gebhardt and my colleague mr demetriou have done on this report in the committee on civil liberties. mrs gebhardt has already mentioned that the increase in mobility has led to an increase in marriages, but also to an increase in divorces. the heterogeneity of national legislation brings legal uncertainty and, above all, unequal opportunities whereby the more informed spouse may be led to resort to the court which is governed by the law which best serves his interests. i therefore support this initiative, which i consider to be a very important one: it provides a clear and complete legal framework for the powers, recognition and enforcement of these decisions. i want to say that in my view, anything that reduces unnecessary conflict not only brings more justice to citizens, but above all helps to bring more trust among judicial officers and to create an area of freedom, security and justice that we all want.
mr president, i would like to speak in particular about the agreement with australia, i would like to congratulate mrs in 't veld on the excellent work she has done on the report and i would like to congratulate vice-president barrot on the good negotiations carried out by the european commission. the agreement with australia is overall positive. it is a good example of the immense distance that has been travelled since the first discussions on the pnr issue began. the european parliament therefore considered it unacceptable that pnr data could be transferred without guarantees of an adequate level of data protection and compliance with the community rules in force. this agreement addresses most of the concerns we have raised and ensures an adequate level of data protection. firstly, because the citizens of the union will be assured by australian law of the protection of their privacy; secondly, because it provides for a system which ensures that people, irrespective of their nationality or residence, can exercise their rights and have access to a dispute settlement mechanism, the commission has also proposed that the data protection authorities should be required to provide the data subject with a copy of the contract, which is to be used for the purposes of the processing of personal data. and fourthly, on the sensitive data issue, i am very much in favour of the customs services specifically stating that they do not want or need sensitive data and i agree with mrs in 't veld that this is a good example for other states. mr vice-president of the commission, i cannot but regret that neither the council nor the commission has kept the promise made in this plenary to maintain close cooperation with the european parliament on this matter. i note commissioner barrot's statement that this will not happen in the future, but the fact is that another agreement was concluded without parliament being informed at any time, either when the mandate was adopted or when the agreement was concluded. in an agreement which so directly affects the fundamental rights of citizens, it is essential that there be democratic legitimacy. it cannot be compensated by an ex post evaluation and by parliamentary approval at national level, since, as the commissioner is well aware, such national control is only provided for in 10 of the 27 member states. until the treaty of lisbon comes into force and the european parliament can be equitably involved in the process of reviewing the agreements on pnr, let us hope that at least the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions can be respected, and that is my appeal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize again for my delay. this year is the european year of intercultural dialogue. the involvement of everyone and the awareness that education, knowledge and the interconnection of different cultures is crucial is already taken for granted. this is why, in the various fields of action and intervention, a number of initiatives have been taken in connection with this year. in this context, the erasmus mundus programme also plays its part and this new perspective is already present in the new regulation. the erasmus mundus programme is an important contribution to the creation of centres of excellence in the eu, which will in a way help to sustain the brain drain outside the european union, and it plays a significant role in promoting european values among the third country nationals who come to study here and who find in the old continent a unique cultural and linguistic diversity which acts as an attractive pole and is distinct from the models existing in the rest of the world. however, dialogue and interculturality have suffered enough to survive. the problem of erasmus mundus student visas and the frequent difficulties in obtaining and renewing them mean that they often live in a semi-clandestine situation in the european union, attending the same master's degrees but with sometimes expired tourist visas. i consider it most pertinent and urgent to find a solution which will allow for the issuing of visas for these students in a speedy, transparent and effective manner. the knowledge of the language which enables cultural perception and mutual coexistence beyond the strictly academic domain is also crucial, and we must therefore guarantee this premise absolutely. in conclusion, a word of thanks to mrs de sarnez for the way she has conducted this whole process and for the balanced report she has produced.
the rapporteur. - in view of the permanent structural constraints and disadvantages facing the outermost regions, it is necessary to adopt measures which are not subject to transitional criteria or to cyclical or artificial changes in wealth which contribute to promoting their socioeconomic development. fisheries is a strategic sector for these regions, both in terms of supplying fish to their populations and in terms of employment and economic sustainability for their fishing communities. however, despite the improvements made, their fishing fleets are made up of mostly ageing vessels, with an average age of more than 30 or 40 years, particularly in the artisanal fleet. new financial support is needed for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleets in these regions, and it is not understood that the european union will make this impossible. continued support for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets is considered to be an indispensable condition for improving the safety and working conditions of fishermen and the conditions for the conservation of fish. the committee on fisheries of the european parliament only proposes to extend public aid for the renewal of the fleets of the outermost regions until 2009 and the possibility of registering these vessels until 2011. although we go further than the european commission proposes, we consider that these proposals are still insufficient and do not meet the real needs of fishermen in these regions, particularly small-scale fishermen. we therefore table our amendments to ensure that public aid is granted for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets, without any time limit and in accordance with the needs of the sector in these regions. although it is not necessary, it could even be stressed that this is a measure without any additional cost to the community budget and without any impact on the increase in fleet capacity. these are proposals previously adopted by the european parliament itself, which reiterated in 2005 the need for future support for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet in order to make the sector in these regions profitable and competitive, and by the committee on fisheries of this parliament, which this year considered that new support was needed for the renewal and modernisation of the fleets of the outermost regions, since the end of community aid for fleet renewal will make it difficult to overcome their backwardness in relation to the structure of the european continent's fleets, so that, at the crucial moment of the decision, we are simply calling for consistency with parliament's own positions.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you of the need to take account of the needs of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions, and to stress the extension of the new deadline for derogating from the general system of entry and exit of fleets in favour of the outermost regions. this extension approved by the commission means that fishing vessels which have benefited from public aid under the derogation can be integrated into the fishing fleet of these regions until 2011 without the entry of new capacity having to be offset by the exit of equivalent capacity. this amendment is the commission's proposal, which was the result of an agreement between the socialist party and the epp-ed with the involvement of members from these two groups from the outermost regions and also the rapporteur, mr pedro guerreiro, although, as we have just heard, he wanted to go further. as the shadow rapporteur for the pse i have been committed to this objective and so i ask members to vote in favour of this report tomorrow and i call on the commission, the commissioner and the council to take account of the legislative resolution of the european parliament which i hope will be adopted tomorrow.
mr president, i believe that the work we have done in the committee on fisheries, involving our rapporteur, the various political groups and the european commission, has been extremely fruitful and that we have reached a conclusion - which i think is very consensual, not entirely, but very consensual - also involving the european commission, that extending the deadline until 2011, with the preparation of a report which can assess the need for extension of this measure, is the most correct way of dealing with this problem. it was an effort for which i would like to congratulate all our colleagues in the epp-ed who agreed this position with us and the european commission. it is now up to us to hope that the council will also be sensitive to what we have decided here and that it will understand the need to give the outermost regions a little more time to fulfil this wish.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, should state aid for the modernisation and renewal of the fishing fleets in the outermost regions be authorised only until the end of 2009 or should it be granted for an indefinite period? the specific characteristics of fishing activities in these regions justify that these aids can be granted beyond 2009 without any damage to the marine environment. state aid for the modernization and renewal of the fleets of the outermost regions for an indefinite period of time does not mean permanent and perpetual aid. they would be immediately discontinued if the studies and the evaluation of the scientific council and the regional advisory councils showed such a need. this is the solution that would best suit the very specific reality of fisheries in the outermost regions. the same reasons which justify an exclusive fishing reserve of up to 100 miles for fishermen in each oct also justify a different treatment in respect of aid for fleet modernisation and renewal. fortunately, the committee on fisheries has found the best solutions to the specific problems of fishing in the outermost regions.
member of the commission. − thank you very much for your comments. i can assure you of my commitment to assisting the fleets of the outermost regions as far as i can and as far as this is possible. however, let me stress that maintaining or even increasing capacity of these fleets is not the solution and can indeed be part of the problem. as i stated in my opening remarks, if there needs to be a measure of restructuring of these fleets, i would urge you to consider the recently adopted fuel package that provides for a number of possibilities that may be beneficial to the fleets of the outermost regions. again, as i said, i can accept the extension of the deadline for entry into the fleet register in view of the backlog problems faced by shipyards, but i cannot accept the further extension for the granting of public aid for construction and for the entry-exit regime beyond what had already been granted under the european fisheries fund, where special consideration was made for the outermost regions, since this will not solve any problems but will only serve to generate more problems. we accept that there is overfishing and we acknowledge that this is due to overcapacity. the commission does not want to contribute to overcapacity in peripheral regions as well, because this will only cause problems for the future. with regard to the possibility of overfishing around the peripheral regions, we have been looking into this and the council has just adopted a regulation on iuu fishing, with the european parliament’s blessing. as from 1 january 2010, no fish that are not certified as having been legally caught can enter the european market. we are also taking the lead in regional fisheries organisations in order to propose sustainable fishing in the oceans wherever we have a voice, and that is in virtually all regional fisheries organisations. we intend to persevere with this effort so that in this way we can guarantee sustainable fishing, not only in our waters but in international waters, which are so crucial for our outermost regions.
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank the speakers for their comments and to remind them that, as stipulated in the treaties themselves, measures to support the outermost regions are possible and desirable. this possibility must be given practical expression. fishing is a strategic sector for these regions. the fisheries sector needs support for its renewal and modernisation, and this is a perfectly natural question. there are community financial resources and, as the debate so far has shown, not a single valid argument has been put forward to continue to prevent public aid for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleets in these regions. contrary to what has been claimed, fleet renewal and modernisation does not necessarily lead to overcapacity or increase overcapacity. the question is, then, why are no measures taken to ensure that they are? that is, after the debate we have had, we are more convinced that not only is it necessary to extend the deadline for the entry of vessels which have benefited from public aid for modernisation, as proposed by the european commission and the committee on fisheries, but it is also necessary to ensure that public aid is available for the renewal and modernisation of the fleets in these regions, in particular for the small-scale fleet, without any time limits, as we have consistently advocated once again. we therefore hope that you will support the amendments we have tabled tomorrow. reality demands it, and time will show us the reason.
madam president, it is not enough to criticise the inadmissible position of the judgments of the european court of justice, which are a serious attack on the most elementary rights of workers, we must go much further, we must profoundly amend the european treaties to prevent these situations from happening again. the rejection of the draft european constitution and the draft treaty of lisbon in the referendums is a clear demonstration of the popular discontent against this european union which devalues workers and does not respect the dignity of those who work. i regret that the report does not reach these conclusions, although it criticises the positions of the european court of justice in defence of workers' rights, but that is not enough.
the single european currency has been a trench which has shielded the eu from greater evils during the current crisis; the euro is, in this respect, unquestionably a european success. in the face of deregulation and the crisis in the markets, a series of contradictory national actions were unleashed. we have rushed to an agreement which we welcome, but we have not forgotten the excessive passivity of the commission when a minimum of prudential and forward-looking vision was required. in recent years - not months - this parliament has discussed and adopted substantial proposals for reform, particularly in the field of market regulation and supervision. it is on the basis of this credibility that we demand of the presidency of the council and the commission that this house be actively involved in the reform solutions, which should cover three objectives: in an integrated europe, systemic risks cannot continue to be regulated at national level. structural intervention is needed with clear and stable rules to ensure the robustness of the system; in a globalised world, europe must be an active partner in creating a new international framework involving the main partners; at a time when economic recession is a certainty, it is important to implement in a coordinated manner an economic recovery package that guarantees growth and employment and allows the recovery of the confidence of households and businesses.
in writing. the european union must be able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world. although it is interesting to hear yesterday's great defenders of neoliberalism now admit that something needs to change, but only to 'refound capitalism', as president sarkozy added. one of its priorities is therefore to deepen immigration policy, notably the return directive, which does not respect fundamental human rights and treats illegal immigrants as criminals and not as people who have fled their countries in search of a better future for themselves and their families. the devaluation of the social area remains one of the main aspects of the policies they target. the financial crisis has mobilized untold resources and will. but the social situation, the crisis of low purchasing power, poverty, unemployment and precarious and low-paid work still lack the necessary means and political will. what they propose will tend to aggravate the social situation and the inequalities in the distribution of income.
the european council reaffirms the measures previously adopted to help finance capital, the foundation of the capitalist system, and 'the continuation of structural reforms'. the so-called "refoundation of capitalism" only means more capitalism - with its insurmountable contradictions - more exploitation of workers, more liberalization and privatization of public services, more transfer of the gains of labour to capital, a policy that the ps government so faithfully carries out in portugal. but there 's not a word for: - the growing difficulties faced by workers and populations, for the increase of wages and social benefits, for the decrease in the prices of essential goods and services, for the effective containment of the increase in the cost of housing loans;- the promotion of productive investment, labour rights, public services and a strong public sector enterprise - as in banking -, for a fair distribution of the wealth created;- the end of the current monetary policy of the eu and its stability pact, for the end of 'tax havens' and for the strengthening and use of the structural funds in the service of effective economic development and the improvement of the living conditions of workers. this is for the break with capitalist policies...
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 639/2004 provides for derogations from the entry/exit regime provided for in article 13 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. however, the late adoption of the commission legal instrument allowing the member states concerned to grant state aid and the limited capacity of the yards made it impossible to meet the deadline for the entry into the fleet of fishing vessels benefiting from state aid for renewal by 31 december 2008, as laid down in regulation (ec) no 639/2004. the european parliament, and in particular the committee on fisheries, advocated in its report the extension of the deadlines for public aid for renewal and for the registration of vessels, both in relation to the regulation currently in force and in relation to the proposal submitted by the european commission, according to which the deadline should be extended by one year only, i.e. until 31 december 2009. the extension of public aid for the renewal of the fleets of the outermost regions until 31 december 2009 and the possibility of registering these vessels until 31 december 2011 is a valuable aid in view of the constraints mentioned above. this document therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. − the draft memorandum of cooperation dealt with in this report aims to significantly reduce individual icao audits in member states. to this end, icao will carry out the evaluation of the aviation safety inspection system of the european commission. thus, and in line with the objectives of the community civil aviation policy, the memorandum of cooperation will strengthen the relations between the community and icao and provide for a better use of the limited resources of the member states in the area of enforcement. until now, member states have been confronted with two enforcement systems with the same objective and, in general, the same scope. again, the relevant objective of this action will be the most rational use of available resources. finally, in order to ensure the proper handling of eu restricted information, icao is obliged to respect community rules and the commission is authorised to verify on the spot the protection measures adopted by icao. i therefore voted in favour of the costa report.
in writing. - in addition to the analysis of the aspects of the ep report which give rise to our greatest reservations, we disagree with the harmonization of judicial laws and the adoption of common procedures, particularly with regard to the 'european warrant for the collection of evidence', an initiative which is part of the creation of a 'european criminal area'. the european commission has been notable for presenting numerous proposals for the supranationalisation of justice at eu level, calling into question central aspects of the sovereignty of states and their duty to safeguard the rights of their citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the majority of meps want to abolish the 'territoriality clause' agreed at council level (which would allow a member state to refuse a european arrest warrant under certain conditions), thus undermining the sovereignty of the member states. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are able to take part in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to 'remove bottlenecks' in the european strategy for the conservation of cod stocks. since the beginning of the century the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) has drawn attention to the serious risk of cod stock loss in the north sea and west of scotland and at the december 2000 council meeting the fisheries ministers and the commission expressed their concern about the critical state of the resources. given the different realities of the different fishermen, this european parliament report aims to provide greater flexibility in action, taking into account the different specificities of the fishery and the resource in the different areas where recovery plans for this species are applied. ensuring greater involvement of the regional advisory councils and relevant member states on the effectiveness of cod stock management is one of the priorities of this report. an explicit reference to the cfp and the member states in the legislation in this respect will give a strong signal that the eu institutions take seriously the involvement of these stakeholders in the future development of fisheries management systems. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the solidarity fund for france. the interinstitutional agreement provides for the mobilisation of this fund within an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion per year. during 2008, eur 260 411 197 was mobilised for the united kingdom (eur 162 387 985), greece (eur 89 769 009) and slovenia (eur 8 254 203). france requested support from the fund following hurricane dean, which struck martinique and guadeloupe in august 2007. the commission proposes to mobilise the solidarity fund for an amount of eur 12 780 000, to be allocated as part of the unused cohesion fund. however, as in the previous cases, there is at least one question that is raised: how is it possible that only now, more than a year after the catastrophes that have hit the people, is eu money being made available? there's definitely something wrong. we recall that we have put forward proposals to speed up the procedures for mobilising this fund and to ensure that regional disasters remain eligible, and to recognise the specific nature of mediterranean natural disasters such as drought and fires in this fund.
in writing. − spain submitted an application for 1589 redundancies, of which 1521 were at delphi automotive systems españa and 68 were at its suppliers, requesting a contribution of eur 10 471 778 to cover part of the cost of the assistance measures, some eur 20.94 million. lithuania submitted an application for 1089 redundancies due to the closure of alytaus tekstile, a textile manufacturing plant, requesting eur 298 994 out of the total costs of around eur 0,06 million. as we have said, the existence of this fund cannot serve as a temporary cushion for the unacceptable socioeconomic costs of relocating companies and their redundancies and for the failure to change the policies that are the cause of exploitation, precariousness and unemployment of workers. what is needed is to prevent and penalize the relocation of companies and to put an end to the policy of liberalizing world trade, instigated by the eu. the granting of public aid should be conditional on long-term commitments in terms of employment and regional development and no aid should be granted which could be used to promote relocations. it is essential to strengthen the role of employee representatives on company boards and in the taking of management decisions of a structural nature.
in writing. - climate change on the planet is due, in addition to its natural development, to a policy of intensified exploitation of natural resources by the industrialized countries, which has accentuated it to a level that confronts humanity with serious problems. responsible action to deal with the consequences of the brutal waste of natural resources requires a break with the capitalist policies that are at its origin. however, the vision that is being set out, with the eu at the head, is that of a joint responsibility of all countries, seeking to impose on the 'developing' countries limitations on the sovereign use of their natural resources, obviously in line with the ambitions of their exploitation by the large transnational corporations. the text adopted by the ep, which contains contradictions and other aspects, completely ignores these central issues, advocating instead a 'security policy to prevent or respond to security risks or conflicts linked to climate', securing and militarising international relations by using 'climate change'. the report also advocates the creation of so-called ecological taxes (as opposed to a tax system based on income), which open the way to the privatisation of public services and private exploitation of such basic resources as water.
in writing. - climate change is a topic worth discussing when it is in the territory of responses. what we must do is reject dogma and unconsciousness. in contrast to a fatalistic discourse which identifies the growth of the world population, the increase in consumption and, inevitably, the improvement of the living conditions of millions of human beings with a potential environmental tragedy, we must bet on the modern scientific capacity and the enormous progress of which we are the beneficiaries to find adequate answers that avoid the risk of containing unwanted effects (as so often happens in hasty decisions made out of the will to act right away but without knowing precisely the reality to which they respond). however, whatever the path taken - or paths, since there must be multiple responses - it is imperative to recognize that there are countries less prepared to react, countries in the development phase which prevent them from having the necessary means and which place them in a situation of enormous fragility. thinking about these countries and their populations, with a view to mitigating the negative impact of climate change and adapting to it, must be a central focus of our policy.
in writing. - obviously, this does not affect our support for the necessary involvement of regional and local authorities or other public authorities, social and economic organisations and the population in the definition of objectives and programmes and in the implementation and monitoring of the use of the community structural funds at the level of each member state, a question we have always raised. however, we cannot accept that other objectives are being pursued under the cover of this legitimate aspiration, such as the merging of the different community funds (european regional development fund, european social fund, cohesion fund and european agricultural fund for rural development) in the 'future cohesion policy after 2013'. this proposal could call into question the central objective of the community budget, namely its redistributive function between the so-called 'cohesion' and the so-called 'rich' countries, in particular by eliminating funds intended only for the former (in addition to calling into question the community financing of 'common policies' such as agriculture and fisheries). we cannot yet agree with its promotion of so-called 'public-private partnerships', which are used to privatise public services that are essential and strategic for the people and the socioeconomic development of each member state.
in writing. - if we want to discuss the need for 'better legislation' before we start a debate on the content of european legislation, we must consider the real need for much of it. it is true that the creation of a common market, the establishment of a uniformity between countries with different histories and traditions, often visible in the details of their legislation, gives rise to a need for harmony which requires possibly more proactive legislative activity. but to say that is not to say that legislation should be introduced first and foremost and that it should be done at european level. without prejudice to the conviction that the eu is often the right platform for action, it must also be said that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental, too often obliterated in the name of an efficiency that is not real and of a result that is not necessary. if we want the eu to be able to respond to the needs for which a european level of decisionmaking is required, we should, in a coherent and wise way, avoid flooding 'europe' with projects and legislative powers which can be effectively implemented at national level. this concern, which is frequently expressed in the treaties, is unfortunately not very much present in 'brussels', with the inevitable consequences also in terms of bureaucratic temptation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the marielle de sarnez report on the erasmus mundus programme (2009-2013), as i consider this new programme to be key to promoting the european union as a centre of learning excellence at world level. through cooperation between the various eu educational institutions, erasmus mundus ii will allow to better respond to the growing demand for student mobility and to promote the quality of higher education in the eu and the dialogue between different cultures. i would also like to highlight the important innovations proposed in the report, such as the extension of the programme to doctoral students, the provision of scholarships and the promotion of the active participation of companies and research centres.
in writing. − this is an interesting programme to support students from third countries who want to come to study in the european union, although limited in funding, which can create difficulties for those who have to pay university fees and cannot afford to do so. we therefore voted in favour of the report, but we regret that the proposals put forward by our group to help solve this problem have been rejected. but we welcome the fact that proposals have been adopted to facilitate the mobility of these students and to draw attention to the fact that the programme is not turning into an attraction for people with special needs coming from third countries to the european union, to the detriment of the countries of origin, insisting on the need for the european commission, in evaluating the programme, to take into account the potential consequences of 'brain drain' and the socioeconomic situation of the people concerned. it is necessary to ensure that students, doctoral students, researchers and academics from less developed third countries can return to their place of origin after the end of their stay and thus avoid the so-called 'brain drain'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the evelyne gebhardt report on the law applicable to marriage. given the increased mobility of citizens within the eu and the heterogeneity of the applicable legislation in the different member states, in the event of divorce, i advocate the possibility for spouses, who are of different nationality or reside in different member states, to be able to choose the law applicable to their divorce proceedings. i think, however, that it is essential to promote information for each of the members of the couple so that both know exactly what the legal and social consequences are of the choice of the applicable law.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 639/2004 on the management of fishing fleets registered in the outermost regions provides for derogations from the entry/exit regime provided for in article 13 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. however, the late adoption of the commission legal instrument allowing the member states concerned to grant state aid and the limited capacity of the yards made it impossible to meet the deadline for the entry into the fleet of fishing vessels benefiting from state aid for renewal by 31 december 2008, as laid down in regulation (ec) no 639/2004. the committee on fisheries has advocated in its report the extension of the deadlines for public aid for renewal and for the registration of vessels, both in relation to the regulation currently in force and in relation to the proposal submitted by the european commission, according to which the deadline should be extended by one year only, i.e. until 31 december 2009. the extension of public aid for the renewal of the fleets of the outermost regions until 31 december 2009 and the possibility of registering these vessels until 31 december 2011 is a valuable aid in view of the above constraints. the guerreiro report therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. − support for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets in the outermost regions is of the greatest interest given the importance of the fisheries sector in these regions. the report voted on today seeks to extend for another year the period of financing for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet in the outermost regions. in these regions, it is justified to take into account the specific structural, social and economic situation with regard to the management of fishing fleets. this means adapting to their needs the provisions on the management of fleet entry/exit schemes and compulsory capacity withdrawal, as well as the conditions for access to public aid for the modernisation and renewal of fishing vessels. in summary, support for the renewal and modernisation of the fisheries fleets of the ors should be maintained, particularly in relation to the small-scale fleet, since the fleets of these regions are made up of a majority of ageing vessels, some of which are over 30 years old. these measures are essential to improve the conditions for the conservation of fish and the working and safety conditions of fishermen in these regions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the shipyards are not affected by the crisis. the shipping industry in our countries has been sacrificed on the altar of neoliberalism and there is a serious risk of destroying what remains, whether in poland or portugal. it is now clear that the overall strategy pursued by the european commission on the competitiveness of the community shipbuilding sector is insufficient and, if there are countries where there is recovery in the shipbuilding industry, in others this is not the case. in portugal the most important portuguese shipyards, lisnave in almada, which employed thousands of workers, were destroyed and there have been no measures to rehabilitate the area so far. we still have the viana do castelo shipyards, which are strategic for the whole region and which need support for their modernisation to avoid new and serious problems. we therefore leave our solidarity with the shipping industry workers, whether in poland, portugal or another member state, and we insist on solutions that make the shipping industry viable. if there were special measures for the financial crisis why are similar measures denied to the shipping industry? that is the question, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, president sarkozy was speaking here this morning about the difference between protectionism and intelligent market interventions. if we add to this the numerous situations in which european industry is burdened with rules and restrictions which, although necessary, make it less competitive, we can easily find reason to commend and vote in favour of the proposal under discussion today. it is well known that the european union has a number of instruments at its disposal to achieve the three-twenties objective it has set itself: one of the most frequent ways is to require european industries to comply with environmental and emission control criteria; another alternative, the one we're discussing here today, suggests that public entities act as market drivers. it makes perfect sense. encouraging large public buyers to stimulate markets and to fuel demand for clean, energy-efficient vehicles, the production of which is perhaps more costly but environmentally friendly, is a legitimate, appropriate and justifiable way of acting in the market. obviously, this intervention cannot be carried out against the interests of the taxpayers. but this interest must measure both the immediate costs and the environmental benefits it brings to the daily lives of citizens. the compromise we are discussing today means that public services are required to calculate not only the purchase price but also the fuel costs, co2 emissions and air pollution over the life cycle of the vehicles when purchasing their road transport fleets and to use these costs as a purchasing criterion. the public authorities thus have the opportunity in the future to be at the centre of the example and the incentive for the automotive sector to develop and invest in the production of environmentally friendly vehicles with ever lower co2 and pollutant emissions. finally, i would like to congratulate mr jørgensen and the rapporteurs whose work has enabled this document to be debated today, in the hope that it will really contribute to a change in habits with positive consequences for a sustainable future for our societies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr manders, the shadow rapporteur, mr hasse ferreira, and the other rapporteurs and colleagues for their cooperation, openness to dialogue and willingness to reach consensus. the timeshare directive will cover new activities and will make a positive contribution to european tourism, operators and consumers. consumers are the least aware of their rights and obligations, the least empowered in negotiating procedures, and that is why i have advocated in the committee on transport and tourism a high level of consumer protection, in particular by advocating the extension and updating of the basic definitions of the directive, the strengthening of the language requirements, information and contract withdrawal in order to ensure a stable, clear market without hidden costs for consumers. a horizontal review of the community consumer acquis has been launched since the launch of this procedure. i argued that this revision was not to be expected in view of the serious problems encountered by consumers in exercising their rights, particularly at international level, to the new activities covered by timeshare, problems which do not result from harmonised community legislation in this field but from the absence of a clear community legal framework, possibly supplemented by more stringent national legal frameworks, which favour companies and legitimate consumers. this is a key objective of this proposal for a directive, and i ask everyone to support it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive which is before this house, after a year of parliamentary work, shows significant improvements over the document which was presented here in 2007. the rights of european consumers, timeshare customers or potential customers, or holiday card clubs have been strengthened in several areas. there are thus three different periods in this proposal which allow, under different conditions, for the consumer to cancel the contract unilaterally. the content of the contract also included a number of essential elements which had to be incorporated in the contract in a precise manner, and the use of languages was clarified and specified in a manner more favourable to the consumer, just as the rules on advertising required special attention. it is therefore a good proposal for a directive which, after lengthy and detailed negotiations between various parliamentary groups, has reached this house, with the agreement of the commission and the european council. mr president, we should welcome the efforts of the slovenian presidency to resolve and overcome a number of differences on the text, but we should also congratulate the french presidency, and in particular ambassador léglise-costa, on the excellent work they have done in the final phase of the negotiations, and on the goodwill and technical ability shown by the european commission representatives, both in the trilogue and in bilateral contacts. on the parliamentary side, the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, mr manuel jardim fernandes, deserves special praise, as do the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, with particular reference to the parliamentary rapporteur, the rapporteurs and group coordinators, and last but not least, the chairman, mrs aline mccartney. before i conclude, i would like to thank the consumer associations, particularly the british and portuguese deco associations, and the european business association for the qualified contributions they have given me throughout the process. it's a good directive, this timeshare and holiday card club. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve it. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the europe of the internal market is also, and must increasingly be, a europe which defends consumers.
in writing. −i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the european council (15 and 16 october 2008) because i agree with the decision to intervene in financial markets, which is understandable from the urgent need to respond to the fears of european citizens and to provide liquidity and security to the markets, with the corresponding benefits for households and smes. it is also not surprising, on the contrary, that this resolution seeks to adopt substantive measures aimed at restructuring the international financial system, particularly by strengthening cooperation and coordination of regulators at community level and by providing the european union with an effective and fair supervisory system. more regulation of the financial market is needed, but above all better regulation is needed. this resolution goes in that direction.
in writing. the resolution of the ppe/pse/eldr/uen highlights the limits and real objectives of the guidelines adopted so far by the eu. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, adopted on 26 june, calls for the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained and that the eu is able to respond to the crisis in a way that is compatible with the principles of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european tax system for the benefit of all citizens, including those who are not yet citizens of the eu, and for the introduction of a european tax system for the benefit of all citizens of the eu. on the contrary, the majority of the ep reaffirms its neoliberal agenda.
in writing. −the european council of 15 and 16 october was notable for its response to the financial crisis. although other subjects deserve attention and could be discussed, this is where our attention is necessarily focused. faced with the emergence of a financial crisis in which the lack of credit, in the strictest etymological sense of the term, was opening up new fronts and new threats every day, the european response was effective in restoring the necessary confidence in the markets. whatever one may think about the origins of the crisis and the best possible responses, the facts confirm this interpretation. the reaction of the european institutions is welcome in this respect. in analysing the european response, one fact nevertheless stands out. the crucial meetings for restoring confidence in the markets are not provided for in the treaties in force or in the treaty of lisbon. this proves that europe, as it is and as we wish it to remain, is a union of states and needs institutional flexibility and, above all, strong and determined political leadership. that's what we had. and this circumstance certainly did more for the accession of europeans to the eu than any communication strategy or institutional debate.
in writing. −we recognise that the adoption of the text of the council common position on temporary work and temporary work agencies has some significance for workers in several eu countries where legislation is very weak and where the most serious abuses in the use of this type of work are widespread. it is therefore important that equal treatment be recognised for workers placed by temporary employment agencies, including in terms of pay, in the user undertaking. it is equally important that this equality be recognised from day one and that any derogations from this principle can only be agreed by the social partners, through collective negotiations or through agreements concluded with the partners at national level. but it would have been preferable to avoid the derogations, as we proposed. it would also have been important to clarify the concept of temporary work further, with a view to limiting its use only to cases of exceptional situations, i.e. to times of extraordinary activity and periods of temporary incapacity of the permanent worker. we regret that the majority, including the pse, have rejected the proposals we have made.
in writing. −i welcome the establishment of a multiannual community programme (2009-2013) which aims to raise public awareness, while educating children on safer use of the internet, including against access to illegal content, bullying and cyberstalking. according to the latest eurobarometer statistics, around 74% of young people (aged 12 to 15) spend more than three hours a day on the internet. the vast majority of these children acknowledged that they had accidentally been exposed to pornographic images. it is essential that we adopt as soon as possible all the measures that appear necessary to protect our children from the growing dangers posed to them by the increasing number of websites containing content harmful to children, including child pornography. we must stop the increase - some 16% in the last year - in reported cases of child abuse on the internet, aggravated by the worrying trend towards a decline in the age of the children involved. that is why i support the creation of this programme, as well as the provision of contact points and emergency telephone lines to report the existence of this type of content and also the creation of a common label for internet pages - 'child-safe'.
in writing. −the safety of children in online communication systems is of paramount importance, as the spread of new technologies and the increase in computer literacy increases the risk of exposure to illicit content and harmful behaviour such as harassment, child pornography, online solicitation for sexual abuse, cyberstalking, incitement to self-harm, anorexia and suicide. the measures to be taken should involve children, families and the school as well as all other stakeholders. a common effort is needed to increase awareness and prevention, in the sense of raising awareness among children. a large-scale effort should therefore also be made to educate parents and teachers in order to reduce the technological gap between the generations. information measures, the development of new technological tools and the exchange of good practice should be promoted. these words are equally true in portugal, where the government is spreading the magellan computer to children as young as six. is the portuguese government acting in accordance with all the concerns expressed in this report?
in writing. −the introduction of better performing technologies to the market is often hampered by high upfront costs and insufficient customer demand. however, action at community level is needed to encourage investment in the manufacture of less polluting and more energy-efficient vehicles, even as the costs of such alternatives will be lower in the long term. i agree with the aim of this directive: to promote the introduction of clean and energy-efficient vehicles on the market and thus contribute to energy efficiency in transport by reducing fuel consumption for climate protection purposes by reducing co2 emissions and improving air quality by reducing pollutant emissions. the european parliament must set an example in adopting sustainability criteria, particularly in public procurement. i support the commitment made in this report. it is more flexible and less bureaucratic than the original proposal of the commission and the rapporteur himself. above all, i agree with the compromise because it respects the principle of subsidiarity and is not so punitive for local authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the dan jørgensen report on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles, as i believe it is necessary to encourage industry to invest in the development of vehicles with low energy consumption and low greenhouse gas emissions. public authorities should help stimulate this market and improve the contribution of the transport sector to eu environment, climate and energy policies by taking energy and environmental impacts into account when purchasing road transport vehicles.
in writing. −the current change management system is increasingly ineffective and unsatisfactory, both for the authorities and for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. the same change concerning products authorised by purely national procedures in different member states shall be treated differently as regards the documentation to be submitted and the evaluation process. the problems are of various kinds: public health, the internal market, legal and practical. the report proposes a number of improvements which, in the interests of harmonisation and simplification, make it important that changes to marketing authorisations (ma) be governed by the same regulatory requirements, irrespective of the initial registration procedure followed. this system will benefit all stakeholders: patients, public authorities and pharmaceutical companies. i agree with the amendments proposed in the compromise position as they emphasize the need for simplification and reconciliation of administrative procedures, the possibility of submitting a single application for one or more identical amendments and reinforce the need to apply the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs grossetête on the modification of the terms of marketing authorizations for medicinal products because i support a single procedure for authorizing medicinal products to be placed on the community market, which guarantees safety for european citizens. i would particularly like to stress the socialist proposal on this subject, which calls for the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the european system of variation for medicinal products which are exclusively available on the national market, thus protecting small and mediumsized firms in the field of herbal medicines and homeopathic products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the manders report on consumer protection in the use of timeshare, as the compromise reached with the council on this subject provides for greater protection of the rights and interests of european consumers. i believe that better regulation of the sector should be a benefit not only to consumers but also to european tourism.
in writing. - this report contains a number of proposals which, for the most part, seem acceptable to us in view of the need to strengthen the right of consumers to information on holiday products, by establishing that the operator is obliged to provide a set of important information so that the consumer can, in a more informed way, form his will to contract. the period during which the consumer can withdraw from the contract without charge is also extended, particularly where the necessary information has not been supplied. preventing abuse and repeat cases of mockery is a key issue. we hope that the prohibition of advance payment of any amounts before the withdrawal period has expired and the imposition of a phased payment in the case of the marketing of long-term holiday products will make a positive contribution.
in writing. −several consultations have confirmed the serious consumption problems associated with timeshare, thus creating imbalances in the market. the evolution of the market at the level of supply and the significant development of new products, marketed in a similar way, has created substantial problems for consumers and businesses. the text voted today essentially changes the definitions and scope of the directive to cover new holiday products and clarifies and updates the provisions on the requirements for the content and language of information and contracts provided to consumers. the commercial activities covered by the directive are of fundamental importance for the european tourism sector, which includes portuguese, and more specifically for its operators and consumers. the central idea is to strengthen the consumer's position in the context of any negotiated procedures for the acquisition of rights of use. this will help to combat uncertainties in the market and create a more stable and transparent environment providing consumers with more and better information.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data in the context of the fight against terrorism. among other important points, the resolution: - denounces the frequent absence of any parliamentary control over the negotiation and approval of these agreements, with only seven member states requiring the approval of national parliaments; - warns that the agreement may not comply with international data protection standards; - regrets the amount of data requested, which is identical to the us agreement, and which includes, in addition to hotel and car reservations, telephone numbers, e-mail addresses, private and professional addresses, meal preferences, credit card numbers, personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs and trade union membership, as well as other data relating to health or sexual life; this is another unacceptable situation, which is part of the current security crisis, which is putting the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens at risk.
in writing. - the majority of the european parliament has voted very little on the unacceptable decisions of the european court of justice in the laval, rüffert and viking cases. it is not enough to recognise that freedom to provide services is not above fundamental rights, in particular the right of trade unions to take action, especially given that this is a constitutional right in several member states. although they claim that the economic freedoms enshrined in the treaties must be interpreted in such a way as not to prejudice the exercise of fundamental social rights, including the right to negotiate, conclude and apply collective agreements, and the right to collective action, the truth is that as long as the principles used by the european court of justice are retained in the european treaties, and the draft treaty of lisbon also contained them, there is no guarantee that identical decisions will not be taken again. we therefore voted against the report because it does not go to the heart of the matter and instead insists on supporting the draft treaty of lisbon, despite the fact that it has already been rejected by the people of ireland.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given the right to negotiate with the united states. how useful and educational would it be for the ep, for example, to 'demand' that the member states and the eu do not continue to collaborate and/or whitewash the criminal cia flights, that they respect the human rights of immigrants, flagrantly violated in the so-called 'return directive', that they respect the democratic and sovereign will expressed by the french, dutch and irish peoples, who rejected the proposal for the so-called 'constitutional'/'lisbon' treaty, that they respect international law, particularly with regard to kosovo, and that they stop pretending that they can give lessons to the world... what if vietnam did it, by the way? would the ep agree to negotiate on these terms? would they accept the reciprocal application of that clause? obviously not, because the "dialogue" and the "clause" are for the others only...
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − madam president, it is an endless political bone of contention that heading 4 is chronically underfinanced. it prevents us from fulfilling our external commitments in crisis areas: in kosovo, palestine, afghanistan and georgia. we are completely unable to build up a solid common foreign and security policy on a long-term basis as long as the commission and the council keep on adopting this budgetary strategy of under-financing external relations and just giving ad hoc responses to the latest crisis, which attracts all resources and attention, such as georgia today. the latest priority overshadows the previous one. for the eu to become a global player, more money is needed in heading 4. with the current financial envelope it is impossible to satisfy the needs of the different budgetary lines. this is the reason why the committee on foreign affairs strongly supports the strategy of the committee on budgetary control seeking to restore the pdb on all budget lines and thus increase the budgetary lines for kosovo by eur40million and palestine by eur139million. we also support the asterisk amendment. in other words, the council and parliamentmust allow the use of the flexibility instrument, and of all other available instruments provided for in the interinstitutional agreement, to allocate eur250million on the food facility instrument, eur40million on kosovo, eur80million for palestine and eur20million for afghanistan.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs haug, for her efforts in preparing parliament's position. the overall appropriations allocated to the cfsp over the years represent a negative development, since previous budgets represented the minimum necessary to allow a common fisheries policy and a maritime policy with the necessary resources. as regards the fisheries sector, the increase in external economic pressure from fuel price increases, the stagnation and reduction in fishery product prices result in substantial losses for the sector and critical social problems for fishermen in general. while the commission proposes a restructuring of the fisheries sector in line with the current macroeconomic situation, concrete measures are needed to help ensure the survival of the sector. the preliminary draft budget and the current position of parliament make substantial cuts, particularly in the area of fisheries control, international cooperation, research staff in the fisheries sector and data collection. i also welcome the fact that parliament's current position has been updated in the light of my pilot project on price monitoring in the fisheries sector and i continue to support the european maritime policy and all related projects by increasing research appropriations.
what should have marked the current debate on the community budget for 2009 were the decisions that the european council this month did not take. the essential point to be discussed was the urgent budgetary measures to provide effective support for small and family farming, fisheries, the textile and clothing industry, the shipbuilding industry, micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, and other essential measures to protect the productive sectors of each member state, particularly the cohesion countries, employment with rights and decent wages for workers. the main issue was the need to break with a community budgetary policy that supports the economic policy that integrates the causes of the structural crisis that has been dragging on for a long time in the european union and which is at the origin of the secondary nature of the productive apparatus, unemployment, precariousness, growing social inequalities, and deep asymmetries between the member states.
madam president, i would like to thank the commission representatives in particular for their reply and for the quality of their reply. i have read the commission's documents, i have read the documents in detail. i have to make a small preamble to say that we agree to the strategy and action plan which essentially focuses on supply first and then on demand. but it's a little bit about the offer that i'd like to pronounce. on the supply side, we're very, very concerned about the abundance of cocaine, and we're very, very concerned, too, about the abundance of synthetic products. and we are very, very concerned about the phenomena of local conflicts between gangs which in some member states are fighting for control of the drug market. i would like to know, as far as possible, what specific measures are proposed for cooperation between the member states and between the police and judicial organisations of the member states, on the one hand, and between the member states of the european union and the producing countries in particular, and in particular the cocaine producing countries, on the other. it is an area of the strategy in which we have many concerns and in respect of which we would like to hear concrete answers from the commission.
thank you, madam president, i will be brief. my question was somewhat similar to that of my colleague. i agree that there has been - and there has been recently - a monitoring and surveillance effort and it is essential that the monitoring and surveillance effort continue. but i also assume that there can be no truce on the subject of regulation, of strengthening regulation, with precise and clear rules from the european union, and its extension to the whole of china and not just a particular impact on some of the provinces, as the honourable member has just mentioned. a clarification on that, thank you very much, commissioner.
in writing. 75 years ago, the stalinist machine set in motion one of the greatest crimes europe has ever known: the holodomor, the great famine that took the lives of more than three million ukrainians. the ukrainians, after being deprived, as they continued to be, of important defining elements of their collective identity, were deliberately deprived of food in a cruel demonstration of "real socialism" in the framework of the campaigns of forced collectivization and sovietization carried out by one of the most murderous regimes in history. the ukrainians, and with them the rest of europe, remember today the communist brutality, arbitrariness and violence that befell them and which constitutes, in the light of international law, a clear case of genocide. the intention of "deliberately subjecting a group to conditions of existence which have entailed its physical destruction, total or partial" is evident in the exact terms of the 1948 convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide. a year ago the president of this parliament called the holodomor a "terrible crime against humanity". i fully support this position of yours, i bow to the memory of the victims. i greet all ukrainians, in particular those who live and work in my country, portugal.
many of us in the house use the internet to book our flights and buy our travels. however, i think most of us are not aware of the criteria for determining the value of airport charges which are paid together with the tickets. knowing, however, that not all the fees listed on the ticket are airport fees, i ask you to accompany me in a little reasoning and a little exercise: if a passenger flies from lisbon to brussels, for example, on brussels airlines, the fee on the ticket is 48 euros, if it is on tap, the portuguese airline, it is minus 2 euros. however, on return, this difference disappears and the passenger is offered a surcharge on the fares of eur 15 per journey. what's the reason? however, if our imaginary passenger travels to london on brussels airlines, leaving brussels and using gatwick airport, the fares cost €124 for a round trip, but if he uses heathrow at bmi, he only pays €65 in fares and if he goes to bmi and returns on lufthansa, again via heathrow, he already pays €70 in fares. why these differences? sometimes you pay one amount on the way out and another on the way back. sometimes for the same airport the airlines all charge the same and sometimes they don't, and it even happens that you don't know how much you pay in some cases. the existence of different airport charges is not a bad thing, on the contrary. different services should be charged different rates. what is undesirable is that different services should be charged the same rates and, on the contrary, that apparently identical services should be charged different rates. above all, we want these rates to be comprehensible and to be set according to transparent and clear criteria. that's what we're looking for, after all. to establish fair and transparent competition between the major european airports and thereby contribute not only to the improvement of the internal market but also to the reduction of the costs incurred by passengers when purchasing their ticket. that is why we support this proposal for a directive with hope.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr stockmann for his openness and commitment in preparing this excellent report, which is directly applicable to airports with more than five million inhabitants, and in particular to those in faro and lisbon, in my own country. this proposal should be welcomed by this parliament and the council because it ensures that airport charges are not discriminated against, except where necessary and compatible with the treaty, that there is a mandatory procedure for consultation between managing bodies and users, that any discrimination in charges will be transparent and based on clear criteria, that airports will charge the same fee for the same service, and that airport users can be granted discounts on charges based on the quality of a service used, provided that all airport users can benefit from this discount on public, transparent and objective terms. it can also grant discounts to users opening new routes in accordance with competition law, there should be an independent national supervisory authority to intervene in case of disagreement on a decision on charges, incentives should be allowed for the launch of new routes to the disadvantaged and outermost regions. finally, member states may authorise the managing body responsible for an airport network to introduce a common charging system for that network. madam president, with this new directive, the future airport charges charged at our airports, and even in the outermost regions like mine, where i come from, will ensure universal access to air transport for everyone, and this is particularly important, as i say, in a region like mine where air transport is the only way to get there or out of there. that is why i hope that this will be a reality approved tomorrow and that the commission and the council will give it the welcome it deserves.
in writing. −if there is a similarity to what happened in previous budgetary procedures where we had double the reasons to reject them at first reading, we can say that with regard to the proposal for the community budget for 2009 we have double the reasons to do so. it should be stressed that the council is looking at the next budget in the same way as it did for the previous ones, that is, using this instrument as a support for the continuation of the eu's neoliberal policy, and it could not be otherwise. this budgetary process demonstrates (once again) the class response that the eu is seeking to give to the sharpening of the capitalist crisis, now triggered by the financial crisis at the heart of the system itself, that is, in the us. neither the commission, the ep nor the council are taking any action at community budget level to respond effectively to the needs and growing difficulties of workers and the general public, of micro, small and mediumsized enterprises and of a large part of the productive sector. we should stress that the council, at the very moment when the structural crisis in the european union is worsening, is reducing payments to an 'unprecedented level', by some eur 9 billion compared with the amount provided for in the multiannual financial framework! that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - as we have pointed out throughout this process, there is a deliberate attempt to conflate and confuse 'competition' with 'transparency'. that is, it is undoubtedly necessary to clarify which criteria and what the airport charges actually represent. however, this should not be part of a policy aimed at liberalising and privatising a strategic public service such as air transport, in particular by creating 'a genuinely competitive airport market' and applying the 'user-pays' principle and profitability in a public service. moreover, as we have already pointed out, the so-called 'regulatory role' is even being removed from public control and transferred to so-called 'independent' regulatory bodies or authorities. we reaffirm that the privatisation experiments in the sector have not generated any more value in the services provided, they have encouraged the destruction of jobs and the degradation of workers' rights and, in some cases, technical and operational problems. although the outermost regions have not been explicitly excluded from the application of the directive (recognising the constraints and the permanent geographical and natural disadvantages to which these regions are subject, and laying down the appropriate exceptions for the fulfilment of universal public service obligations), as we proposed, we appreciate that the application of the directive has been conditional on airports with more than 5 million passengers per year.
in writing. - "it shall give its opinion in favour of the conclusion of the agreement"... behind these seven words are 65 pages of an 'agreement' which, among many other negative aspects, is governed by what are euphemistically called 'market economy principles' as its dogma. apart from the serious political aspects, the first objective of the agreement is the integration of bosnia-herzegovina into the ec internal market as a way of ensuring the dominance of its economy by the large transnational corporations of the eu countries. the agreement extends the scope of 'free trade', 'free movement of capital', 'liberalisation of the right of establishment and the provision of services' and 'liberalisation of transport' (air, sea, inland waterway and land transport) and aims to ensure that within six years bosnia and herzegovina 'adopts' and 'effectively applies' the acquis communautaire on free competition in the internal market and 'other aspects of trade'. we are naturally in favour of deepening friendly relations with other peoples, based on meeting their real needs, which are mutually beneficial and contribute to mutual development, respecting the principle of non-interference and respect for national sovereignty. now, this agreement is the contradiction of that principle.
in writing. −one of the most significant aspects of eu navco is that it is the first eu naval mission. but it is also worth noting that the eu, in taking action against piracy, is clearly aware that it is defending its own direct interests. this notion is indisputably inseparable from the consequences of globalisation. as the world comes together and the european economy takes on an increasingly global scale, it is clear that our interests are far beyond our borders and their defence will also require means that go beyond the geographical limits of europe. at the same time, it should be stressed that these interests and their defence are, as a rule, common to europe and its allies. the role of the atlantic alliance in combating piracy is therefore important, it must be noted and it must be included in our analysis of this changing reality.
in writing. −i support the european parliament resolution on the impact of aviation security measures and body scanners on human rights, privacy, personal dignity and data protection. i am concerned about the proposal for a regulation which, among the methods of screening passengers permitted at eu airports, provides for the use of body scanners, i.e. machines which allow an image of a virtually naked person to be displayed, i.e. passengers to be undressed. this is not merely a technical measure, but has important consequences for the right to privacy, data protection and the dignity of individuals. i believe that there are no conditions for a decision to be taken now, that the european parliament does not yet have all the essential information and that it is up to the european commission to assess the impact of the proposed measure on fundamental rights, to hear the opinion of the independent data protection authorities and to carry out the scientific and medical assessment of the possible health consequences of such technologies. to take any decision without all this being done is a rashness which european citizens do not understand and another step in a security escalation which disregards essential values of individual freedoms and the dignity of the human person.
in writing. −for several years now, the increased needs for safety in air transport have raised increasing questions of compatibility with individual rights. traditionally, this need to harmonize interests has to be done, above all, in the area of freedom and privacy. in the present case, these concerns are again expressed and call for an appropriate response which we believe can be given. in fact, if we take into account the degree of intrusion of the current methods and, on the other hand, the answers given by solutions which prevent the recording of images and ensure a physical distance between those who control and those who are controlled, some of these issues seem outdated or, at least, surmountable. there is, however, another issue which i believe is under-reported and which raises the greatest concern. the health implications of this technology are still poorly studied. the value at stake here, the health of the citizens, requires a care that is hardly satisfied by measures taken without the considerations which the original version of the text put to the vote proposed. that is why i voted against the amendment which sought to remove them.
in writing. the resolution is part of the gross campaign of falsification of history which aims to equate communism with fascism, to shamefully whitewash the latter, and to put those who aimed to enslave humanity on an equal footing with those who fought heroically to free it. as we have said, this is a profoundly anti-communist campaign, which seeks to divide democratic forces, denigrating and falsifying the contribution of the communists to the anti-fascist struggle and to the civilizational advances of our time. we must not forget that anti-communism was the ideological foundation of the various fascist dictatorships and the factor of division of the democratic forces used by them. the resolution also seeks to show that it is capitalism that is sowing poverty and hunger in the world. the fao denounces the fact that tens of millions of people have recently become victims of hunger, a situation which affects about one billion people in the world. a resolution which cannot be taken out of its context of the assertion of nationalist forces in ukraine, of attempts to whitewash the collaborationism of pro-fascist ukrainian groups with the nazis, of the pressure for nato enlargement and of the current anti-russian campaign.
in writing. −in this report, the committee on petitions encourages the ombudsman to pursue the dual objective he announced in his 2006 annual report, namely to work with the institutions to promote good administration and to increase communication efforts so that all citizens who may need to use his services are properly informed about how to do so. the increase in the number of cases submitted confirms the importance of the information. the ombudsman is now given more powers, following the amendments which the european parliament adopted at his request. the total number of inquiries handled by the ombudsman in 2007 was 641. of these surveys, 64% were targeted at the european commission, 14% at epso, 9% at the european parliament and 1% at the council of the european union. the main types of alleged maladministration were lack of transparency, including refusal of information, bias or abuse of power, unsatisfactory procedures, avoidable delay, discrimination, negligence, legal errors and non-compliance with obligations. and in some cases, he's gotten cases brought to trial to be solved.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. venezuela is a great country and the venezuelan people are a people with deep democratic feelings and traditions. but unfortunately, for years now - and the situation has worsened - there has been a terrible situation with the violation of fundamental rights which we have discussed once again in this house and which we must condemn. we condemn the abuse of personal data in lists of political persecution according to the manuals of totalitarianism, the "tascon list", the "maisanta list", the "russian list". the process of removing dozens and dozens of citizens who are prevented from standing as candidates in the regional and municipal elections to be held in venezuela is unacceptable. it is unacceptable that human rights officials, such as the representatives of the ngo human rights watch, should be expelled simply because they made relevant comments. and it's shocking that the discourse of violence, the discourse of intolerance fueled by power, has reached young people. we condemn and deplore the murder of a young student leader, who died a victim of this climate of violence, which is fueled by power, and we demand the clarification of the truth and the condemnation of those responsible. but we europeans must be more active. let us imagine that this is happening in our countries. we have to accept that in our countries they are disqualified from participating in citizens' elections, as is happening in venezuela. so how can we close our eyes? how can we close our eyes and pretend that nothing is happening? how acceptable is the attitude of the portuguese government, for example, which is unfortunately my country - i am ashamed of that attitude - and which is behaving like a coward in the face of the venezuelan government, which has a policy of licking its boots and which has recently become the visiting hall of the tyrant in europe? this is truly unacceptable! it is essential that the commission and the council be more firm and clear in their condemnation of these violations of human rights.
for the gue/ngl group once again we are confronted with an unacceptable and despicable manoeuvre and interference by the european parliament, which is not innocently anticipating the holding of regional and municipal elections in venezuela. the agenda for this debate and resolution is basically designed to respond to those who are fuelling and promoting a long and very serious process of interference and attempts to destabilise a democratic and sovereign state. its aim is to promote blatant interference in the internal situation of this country, seeking to interfere and impose, by external pressure, decisions which only the venezuelan people have the sovereign right to take. instead of falsifying facts and legitimately giving conspiratorial lessons in democracy to venezuela, the european parliament should have scheduled a debate on the european union's attempt to impose a proposal for a european treaty that has already been rejected, in profound disregard for the democratic and sovereign decision expressed by the french, dutch and irish peoples and to prevent other peoples from taking a stand by referendum. instead of meddling in what only the venezuelan people can decide, the european parliament should have rejected the inhumane return directive, which disrespects and violates the human rights of immigrants, many of whom come from latin america. what really bothers the promoters of this initiative is that the venezuelan people have been an example that bothers, bothers the big financial and economic interests that dominate the european union. an example of the affirmation of national sovereignty and independence, an example of the construction of a patriotic project of emancipation, progress and development, an example of anti-imperialist solidarity, an example that a people is worth fighting for and that a more just, more democratic and peaceful country and world is possible. the reality is that the best response to this manoeuvre of interference by the european parliament is the prestige and the profound significance of the bolivian process for the peoples of latin america and the world. so stop pretending you can lecture the world.
mr president, commissioner, tomorrow marks the 13th anniversary of the wrongful arrest of the burmese leader aung san suu kyi. it is the best opportunity for the european union and its president, who are in beijing for an asem summit, to declare in a very formal way that the state of the situation in burma is unacceptable, to put the necessary pressure, in particular on china, as has already been proposed here by several of our colleagues, to follow the example already set, in particular by the united states in 2003, and to refuse to continue importing clothing products made in perfect slavery. in addition, a system of sanctions which is absolutely clear and consistent. if this is done i believe we will finally begin to see changes in the situation in burma.
in portugal, workers' struggles are taking place in a wide variety of sectors. we stand in solidarity with all those who are struggling. but here we particularly welcome the courageous struggle of the teachers and the impressive demonstration on 8 november which brought together in lisbon 120 000 teachers and educators from all over the country, i.e. about 80% of this professional class, in the second large-scale demonstration in the space of six months, which was followed by other forms of struggle in the affirmation that they are determined to continue defending the public school, in the struggle for its dignity and the appreciation of its work, which is fundamental for the formation of the young generations, for the development and progress of portugal, which has the worst rates of school training in the european union. but we also welcome the struggle of the alentejo pyrite workers in aljustrel against the suspension of the mine activity which the multinational company decided to suspend six months after its reopening, throwing more than 600 people into unemployment. it is urgent that measures be taken to prevent unemployment from worsening in a deprived area and the country from becoming poorer.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to congratulate not only the rapporteurs but also the commission for the initiative it has taken in drawing up this text, the review of the 10 years of economic and monetary union. it is a strategic text and this analysis was crucial. the euro, as has been said here today, is an undeniable success. from lisbon to helsinki, from dublin to bratislava, the euro has shown its resilience and solidity even during the severe turbulence we are witnessing, and it is clearly important that the borders of this club be extended. but the times we live in are testing the strength of the european project on a daily basis in many other areas. the euro, as i said, is a central instrument for the functioning of the financial system. however, the commission's own text clearly points to the fundamental conclusion that neither the growth of the real economy nor convergence in both social and spatial terms has accompanied this success. on the contrary, the commission clearly concludes that disparities have increased sharply during the decade of the single currency. this divergence affects regions in my country, particularly the north of portugal, but also other regions in the member states. the impact of the single monetary policy, particularly the very high exchange rate, has been felt most strongly in the regions most exposed to international competition and in the regions with the highest exports. today, the crisis resulting from the deregulation of financial markets is hitting the real economy hard and is worsening the situation of many citizens and regions. these regions, those exposed to international competition, those dependent on small and mediumsized enterprises, those where access to credit is most important, are now falling victim to this process and are even threatened with depression. the success of the euro depends on the confidence of european citizens. the most powerful european countries have already started the process of reviving their national economies. this is particularly the case with initiatives concerning the automobile industry. but europe is more than that. it must be much more than the more or less coordinated sum of national policies. the time has come to make the euro a central instrument of europe, to support a robust currency but also a robust real economy, and to accompany the operation of the euro with mechanisms that guarantee the central objective of achieving social and regional convergence, because it is at the core, it is at the heart of the european project. the debate on economic policy coordination in the euro area has today a reinforced and unquestionable impact and relevance. but coordinating national policies is not enough. it takes more. the lisbon strategy, which is a sum of national initiatives and a stability and growth pact that places different constraints on the different countries that use it and have to abide by it, is a limitation, and the limited budget at our disposal adds to that. crises are opportunities. monetary union can only be sustained by a convergence of the welfare of the member countries and their citizens, regardless of where they were born. how else can we mobilise citizens for the single currency? the commission must be able to live up to its own diagnosis, and that is why we are looking forward to the concrete proposals which the commission will bring to this house on 26 november and present to the european citizens. it is essential that a new phase of the union should be launched from this crisis, in which the consolidation and strength of the financial system are accompanied by real prosperity based on cohesion and also economic citizenship.
i would like to begin by congratulating the authors of this excellent report. indeed, only the autism of some or the total incomprehension of many can consider that the euro and the monetary policy associated with it are not a great success for humanity, but a great success for the european economy. it is enough to look at the very large number of jobs that have been created in europe under the euro to understand the importance of the euro. it is also significant that in crisis situations, when the european economy, with the instruments at its disposal, is reacting more favourably than other regional economies, those who were sceptical of the common monetary policy and the euro only a short time ago are now rapidly calling for forms of cooperation and even integration into the euro zone. this is not all there is to it and it does not mean that i am personally satisfied with the way in which the european union is approaching the issues of financial consolidation and financial stability. i have said it here many times: i am in favour of financial stability, i am in favour of the stability and growth pact, but i do not think that the stability and growth pact has always been friendly to the real economy. and the stability and growth pact was no friend of the real economy any more than monetary policy was. the real economy has often had and has had enormous difficulties because of too much orthodoxy in the application of the rules of the stability and growth pact. i have never met an economist, nor have i ever read an economics textbook, that tells me that the two, three and sixty, which are the magic numbers in the stability and growth pact (inflation, deficit and 60%) are scientifically proven. i've never met anyone, and i've never met any economist or any theorist of economics, who has ever said that it's absolutely essential to maintain in absolute autism this kind of configuration. in fact, an idea which is very much supported by the commission, and is supported by the most conservative sectors in europe, is that we should have balanced budgets, zero budgets. it's a perfectly insane idea. at any level of growth, a balanced budget meant total debt elimination for the future. that was not socially fair, it was not intergenerationally fair and it had no adherence to concrete reality and to the real economy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the devaluation of work through the practice of low wages remains one of the most used ways by capitalism to increase the exploitation of workers, particularly affecting working women, which also means a devaluation of motherhood. it is unacceptable that more than 30 years after a directive on equal pay for men and women, high levels of discrimination should persist. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in some countries, such as portugal, where unemployment is very high, the average wage gap between men and women has increased, exceeding 25% in the private sector and contributing to the fact that poverty is more common among women, including retired women. the european commission and the member states must take the necessary measures to give value to work and overcome wage differences and stereotypes linked to the tasks and sectors of activity that always discriminate against women. the value of professions and activities where women predominate, particularly in trade and services and in various industries, needs to be enhanced. the reality is that the worsening of unemployment weakens women's rights, intensifies the exploitation of workers and increases discrimination. we therefore insist on a different policy, one which gives priority to employment with rights, to the fight against discrimination, to the defence of motherhood and fatherhood as fundamental social values. we therefore support this report, to which we have contributed a number of amendments, stressing the importance we attach to collective bargaining and recruitment in combating discrimination against women, particularly in relation to access to employment, wages, working conditions, career progression and vocational training.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - i shall use the first of the two minutes to recall briefly the essential principles which guided my report, which was unanimously adopted by the committee on industry. the principles are as follows: to make the prohibition and distribution of goods and services more efficient, mainly by reducing red tape; to improve the existing rules and adapt them to the circumstances of the moment, in particular to facilitate the application of control procedures by national administrations; to simplify the procedures designed to increase the transparency of intra-community trade by forcing legal certainty on rules for fair trade; to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states and to improve the quality of the information provided by the commission. the system of collection and refund of the tax must not give rise to discriminatory criteria and double taxation must be avoided. these were the guiding principles of the opinion which i presented to the committee on economic and monetary affairs on behalf of the committee on industry. it seems to me that there was, in fact, a broad consensus in the context of the committee on industry. that is why i cannot help saying, as a socialist member of parliament, using the second minute, that i do not understand mrs lulling's (the rapporteur) remark when she says that the socialists and the liberals have introduced quantitative limits - only the socialists and the liberals. it was not just the socialists and the liberals, at least in the committee on industry, it was everyone, because, i repeat, my opinion was adopted unanimously. i think it is quite extraordinary that the figures are not introduced, because we know that this type of tax has many uses. obviously the tax revenue, but also the defense of public health. and of course each country gives each of these two vectors a completely different relevance. so it seems to me that the solution we have found (the solution of defining quantitative limits) is a fair and balanced solution, which does not unduly benefit any particular country, nor does it harm any of those who, of course, have an understanding different from that of the country that mrs lulling represents and which, of course, i respect, but whose will, of course, cannot override the general will of the other countries of the european union. finally, a final note, just 10 seconds, to say that of course the socialists are in favour of the internal market and in favour of deepening the internal market and do not believe that the proposals which have been adopted in both the committee on industry and the committee on economic and monetary affairs could be a threat to the internal market.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by greeting the lead rapporteur, mrs lulling, and the shadow rapporteurs, mr benoît hamon and mr olle schmidt. for reasons of force majeure, my colleague, mr benoît hamon, cannot be here today and i will try to convey his position, which is the position of our political group, on a matter which deserves our full attention. in fact, a sensitive issue, which is taxation in the case of excise duties. when we talk about excise duties, we should remember that they are levied on well-identified consumer goods and services: tobacco, alcohol, energy products. the commission proposal amends a text dating from 1992, and the internal market for these products has changed a great deal. it should also be noted that the new electronic system for the management and control of transactions is a welcome change which should simplify the operation of the system, both for operators and for the tax authorities, as the commissioner has just mentioned. as regards these more technical aspects - which also include the deadlines for transmitting documents, the rules for the provision of financial guarantees by operators, etc. - the commission's and the rapporteur's proposal deserves applause, consensus and represents serious and useful progress. however, in excise duties, the political content is not limited to technical aspects, as my colleague manuel dos santos has already said. these are sensitive products, and their sale should not be subject to mere competition. and so i would like to focus on two illustrative issues in this regard. one is the indicative limits on the personal transport of these goods and the other is the rules for the sale of goods via the internet. these matters clearly separate us from the rapporteur. the disparities between the taxation of alcohol and tobacco, and also of fuel, in the member states are very, very large and, consequently, the differences in the prices of sales to the public are also very large. it is sufficient to recall that the price of a pack of tobacco can vary between eur 1 and eur 7 within the union due to the large differences in taxation. as a rule, taxes are due in the country of consumption, with the exception of goods transported within the european union. under the current rules, certain quantitative limits must be respected, otherwise it will be assumed that the products transported have commercial purposes. the commission proposal is aimed at abolishing these quantitative limits, and the rapporteur, mrs lulling, has agreed with this. that was not the view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. on the contrary, we agreed to lower this threshold, following the initiatives of the shadow rapporteurs, benoît hamon, olle schmidt and myself. liberalisation does indeed allow certain consumers to reduce the cost of purchasing these goods, but it is not sensible for this to be done at the expense of the public finances of the member states, at the expense of public health objectives which the member states have the right to safeguard and, finally, thereby feeding the parallel market, which we all must avoid. so the final agreement reached in the parliamentary committee is to keep the limits at a reasonable level, 400 cigarettes or 45 litres of wine per person. this is assumed to be what is necessary for personal consumption, without affecting travellers who actually purchase these goods to this extent. for the same reasons we oppose amendment no 68 by the epp group, which proposes to tax distance sales, particularly those made via the internet, in the country of the seller and not in the country of the consumer, which is an unjustified reversal of the general principle of taxation. this amendment would also open the door to a large-scale parallel market and should be rejected. finally, and in conclusion, i shall just mention the question of duty-free shops. the internationally recognised principle is that these should only be in ports and airports to allow for optimal control and to prevent any risk of fraud or abuse. we must nevertheless allow adequate time for adaptation and that is why we have proposed, on behalf of the socialist group, a transitional period for member states which still have free shops, allowing them to make a gradual adjustment to the new situation and proposing 1 january 2017, a date which is far away, to allow a gradual approximation to the common rule. so we think this line is the appropriate line. it's a line that has generated consensus. it is not a total consensus, but a majority approval at the level of the economic and monetary committee, and i hope that it will be voted on in this plenary tomorrow.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, during the debate on the amendment to the solidarity fund regulation, held on 18 may 2006, in which we took an active part, presenting a set of proposals, we underlined our disagreement with the position adopted by the majority of the european parliament, in particular with regard to the non-maintaining of the eligibility provided for in the current regulation for regional disasters, which are the most frequent, the rejection of the possibility of higher levels of financial assistance for the cohesion countries and convergence regions or the lowering of the threshold for their mobilisation so that the countries of the european union with the highest gross domestic product are clearly the most beneficiaries. in line with all that we have done so far, apart from changing the issues highlighted above, we will continue to fight, among other things, for the recognition of the specific nature of natural disasters of a mediterranean nature, for the adaptation of the solidarity fund to the deadlines - see the unjustifiable and unacceptable delays in its mobilisation and delivery of funds to the victims (from community funds) - but also for its adaptation to the level of eligible actions, in particular to the specific nature of the different natural disasters, such as drought and fires, and for the integration of support for the restoration of productive activity in areas affected by disasters, such as emergency operations for the provision of land and forest firefighting equipment, and forest fires. as regards any initiative in the field of civil protection, we believe that the priority should be to promote prevention and civil protection in each member state, as well as their coordination.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this oral question to the european commission by gerardo galeote, on behalf of the committee on regional development in this parliament, is fully justified and relevant. the council's reasons for blocking the reform of the solidarity fund must be made clear, since it is unable to agree on a common position which would allow the legislative process to continue. the reasons which may underlie the council's position are hard to discern, except perhaps for petty financial reasons. does the council not want a more rapid and immediate response to natural disasters that occur? does the council not want this kind of rapid response to be given to other types of disasters, such as serious industrial accidents, terrorist attacks or serious public health situations? it is important that these questions be answered clearly, just as it is important to clarify what the european commission thinks of this situation and whether it intends to take any action to unblock the legislative process. the value of solidarity must also be fully realised in this area. the citizens would not understand at all if it were not so.
it is with great pleasure that i welcome you all to the start of this debate, which is the last act of a long and involved process of discussion and reflection on the present and future of the common agricultural policy. it was very hard work, which mobilized for many months, even more than a year, a lot of good will in parliament, in the council, in the commission and in the whole agricultural and rural world of the european union. i have had the opportunity to hear, throughout this time, a great many opinions from organisations representing the agricultural and rural sectors in various member states and to speak with members of parliament and institutional representatives from many, i would say almost all member states and community institutions, starting here, of course, with the european parliament. i have attended various seminars and conferences and have been attentive to all the echoes transmitted by the media in search of the best possible synthesis. i should therefore like to thank all the members who have been enthusiastically involved in this debate, the coordinators of the political groups, and i should like to highlight the role played by mr goepel, not only as coordinator of the epp, but also as rapporteur of the own-initiative report which preceded the reports we are discussing here today. i also thank mr parish for the way he conducted the work of our committee and for the excellent cooperation of the comagri secretariat, which was responsible for the most laborious and technically demanding part of the work. finally, to the commission, in the person of the commissioner, for the availability she and her services have always shown, and to minister barnier for the way in which she has been able to maintain a continuous relationship with parliament even before the formal start of the french presidency of the council. the exercise of enhanced cooperation we are pursuing has been a good example of anticipating the virtualities of codecision, which i hope will come into force with the full ratification of the lisbon treaty as soon as possible. the debate we are having, with all the divergences and convergences that have emerged from it, reflects well the complexity of the heterogeneous european agriculture, but it also reflects in an exemplary way the importance that europe, its institutions and parliament in particular attach to this subject. the fact that the commission has tabled 1170 amendments to the commission's proposals, even taking into account the time available interrupted by the summer holidays, is a sign of the wide participation which this debate has aroused among all members. but the commitments made by four of the most important political groups in parliament, concentrating in six commitments some 400 amendments on the most important issues, also reveal the sense of responsibility and the spirit of commitment and the capacity for compromise of the members. as regards the content of the report, which i consider to be quite balanced and capable of responding to the challenges of the present and of giving good guidelines for the future, i would like to stress that parliament recognises as positive and welcomes and subscribes to many of the commission's proposals. i would stress the confirmation of the need for a common policy as an indispensable condition for a competitive and environmentally sustainable agriculture in europe, the contributions made by the commission to make the cap fairer and more acceptable to society, the commitment to simplification and reduction of bureaucracy, the confirmation of the option of giving farmers greater freedom of choice in defining their production options, the financial strengthening of rural development and the extension of its scope to the so-called new challenges (energy, climate, water, biodiversity), the introduction of the principle of the progressivity of modulation, the extension of the flexibility granted to member states in the management of the cap (article 68), the creation of a system of risks and crises with community co-financing, the good general orientation given to the discussion of the model for the period after 2013 and to a good response by the european union in the context of the wto negotiations, with a view to a fair and reciprocal agreement on international trade in agricultural products. however, the commission's proposals also contain aspects which parliament, and i myself as rapporteur, have considered less positive, and as i have already had occasion to mention in other circumstances, the commission's proposals contain in some respects, for example as regards the instruments for managing the market and the milk sector, an excessively liberal tone which can become dangerous at the very moment when there is enormous instability and volatility on the markets. it also shows a certain social insensitivity, which is clearly evident in the proposal to exclude small farmers. i also think that the commission's proposal is not going in the right direction with regard to social and territorial cohesion, by proposing the end of the mechanism for redistributing the funds of the new modulation, and i also think that the commission has not taken due account of some sectors which are particularly vulnerable to the current market crisis and which are at serious risk of being abandoned with regard to the timetable and the pace proposed for the decommissioning by 2013, such as the sheep sector and what we have agreed to call the small cmos, which, being small, are very large and of very great political, economic and social importance for some regions of europe, where the alternatives are very difficult. the report and the vote in the committee on agriculture, by a large majority, aimed to correct some of these less positive aspects. the five commitments adopted on the key issues of modulation, the percentage and the progressivity of support for small farmers, giving member states greater freedom to set minimum thresholds, the percentage of article 68 and the extension of its scope, the wider scope of the insurance system by extending it to livestock farming, the question of co-financing rural development and the extension of the new challenges were relevant proposals from parliament, alongside many others which also constitute positive contributions, of which i would highlight, for example, the value of the employment factor for the calculation of the allocation of aid and the respect of health and safety conditions at work as regards the conditions for receiving such aid. the committee on agriculture has also taken a very clear position on the most difficult aspect of this dossier, the milk sector. it is a matter of great importance, the approach to which, given the present situation on the markets, requires careful consideration. although i have the greatest respect for all the views, and they are absolutely different in some cases, but both are respectable, i think the position adopted by the committee on agriculture is quite sensible and i would like to see it adopted in the plenary and confirmed by the council with the commission's approval. a prudent increase in production over two years, in addition to the 2% we have decided for 2008, and a definitive decision, anticipated for 2010, on the future of the sector, based on the behaviour of market developments, with a 4% increase over three years, seems to me a very sensible position and perhaps the one that could make the final compromise. i shall end, madam president, just to express my hope that this debate, and the debate that will follow, will help to clarify positions and that we can achieve the consensus that agriculture and farmers expect from us. i hope we all know - parliament, council and commission - that we can rise to this challenge.
we are concerned to be involved in this debate on further changes to the common agricultural policy, which is basically aimed at greater liberalization and subordination to international markets, without taking into account that agriculture is a strategic sector and that food security and food sovereignty should be the key factors in ensuring a quality food for the people of our countries. the social insensitivity with which this reform is being pursued, without taking account of the serious unemployment situation, is also unacceptable and threatens to destroy what remains of family farming, with the cutting of support for small farmers, the announced end of the milk quota system, the renationalisation of the cap costs and the continuing injustices in the allocation of support being particularly serious. we therefore insist on the proposals we have put forward to ensure support for farmers who produce, to combat the instability of productive sectors due to price fluctuations and to prevent the decline of the rural world and the desertification of many regions.
mr president, commissioner fischer boel, minister michel barnier, a medical examination should be used to correct things that are not quite right. there is one aspect of the legislation on agriculture in the outermost regions which is not right, namely the regulation of sugar in the autonomous region of the azores. i would like to ask the commissioner and the minister to look at the amendments i have tabled here and all the members to consider what is at stake, how easy and simple it is to solve a problem. but if it is not resolved, it will mean unemployment and the bankruptcy of a sector with very serious consequences in the autonomous region of the azores. i would urge you once again to give this your full consideration.
the extensive list of speakers and the passionate and convincing way in which they expressed their ideas confirmed once again the extent to which this subject has mobilized the european parliament and the importance which agriculture, farmers and the rural world in europe deserve. the debate was not surprising, because in essence the positions reiterated in the various debates throughout this long process of discussion which has lasted over a year and, in the specific case of my political group, another six months. but it seems to me that it has also been well demonstrated that no alternatives have been put forward to the positions which represent the possible bisectricity for a responsible compromise which can be accepted by the majority. the commission and the council have also reaffirmed their positions, but i have noted with great appreciation the signs of flexibility and openness that have been shown. i therefore trust in your political realism, dear mariann and dear michel, and in your commitment to find a final solution very close to that proposed by parliament on the essential questions. i repeat the symbolic importance of this rapprochement on the eve of the european parliament's assumption of co-decision powers, because i hope that the problem of ratifying the treaty of lisbon will be solved, because europe needs the treaty of lisbon. mr barnier, as i have said many times, we are not yet in the co-decision phase, but we are already in the spirit of co-decision. i therefore wish the difficult negotiations that await us today and tomorrow the greatest possible success and i am sure that we will be able to find a consensual solution that meets the aspirations of european farmers, that meets the aspirations of agriculture, that has its eyes on us, because we are all convinced, and this is the best conclusion of this debate, that a common agricultural policy is needed in europe if european agriculture is to be competitive and environmentally sustainable.
we stress the importance of establishing a genuine system of free daily distribution of fresh fruit and vegetables in season to schools, giving priority to children in pre-school and primary education, given its positive effect on healthy food, public health, combating child poverty and the boost and support it can give to regional products, including those from mountain regions, produced locally by our farmers. this requires much more funding than is provided by the european commission. so, commissioner, you must take account of the proposals that the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament is putting forward here, to which we have also contributed, and congratulate our rapporteur on the work he has done.
i wanted to protest against the statement made by mrs lulling, which is intended to condition the vote of members in this house, and that conditioning is meaningless. the interpretation you are giving is one which we do not share, and it is only in this sense that i would like to ask my colleagues, who know what they are dealing with, who know that we are defending other interests, which are the interests of public health and the interests of citizens and the interests of countries, to vote in favour of the report. (applause from the left)
in writing. − the document in question does not fundamentally change the content of the regulation adopted in this parliament in november 2008, which regulated the establishment of a public-private partnership for the implementation of a european air traffic management system. the amendments currently being made to the regulation are aimed at recognising sesar as a community body and applying to its officials the status of officials of the european communities. changes were also made to the quantification of the community contribution and its transfer to sesar - a maximum of eur 700 million, 50% of which will be paid from the budgetary allocation of the 7th framework programme for research and technological development and the other half from the trans-european networks programme. the creation of this company sets a dangerous precedent in the use of public money for private purposes. they could have followed the public sector's lead in updating and improving air traffic management systems, including on matters related to their reliability, ensuring the safety of airspace professionals and users. we believe that these objectives will not be better achieved by subjecting them to the interests and pressures of the private sector. for these reasons, we did not support this report.
in writing. - italy submitted an application for redundancies in sardinia (1044 redundancies, 5 companies), piedmont (1537, 202), lombardy (1816, 190) and tuscany (1588, 461) between 2007 and 2008, following the liberalisation of textile and clothing trade. for a total of 5985 redundancies in 858 companies, italy is requesting a contribution of eur 38 158 075. as we have said, the existence of this fund cannot serve as a temporary cushion for the unacceptable socioeconomic costs of trade liberalization, particularly in textiles and clothing, and for the increasing precariousness of workers. with the (possible) expiry on 31.12.2008 of the common system of surveillance for exports of certain categories of textile and clothing products from china, it is necessary to establish mechanisms that limit imports from any country into the eu. in the face of the growing number of companies closing down or relocating their production, the increase in unemployment and the intensification of the exploitation of workers - particularly in portugal - what is needed is an end to the policy of liberalization of world trade (instigated by the eu and the ps government), and the defence of production and employment with rights in the different eu countries.
in writing. - the occasion of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of italy is an excellent opportunity to reflect on the reactions that will be needed in the future, when the combined effects of globalisation and the economic crisis will be felt more acutely. the formula of this fund, which follows restricted principles in determining the scope of application, suggests that the european union regards globalisation as a fact and its negative effects as a reality to which we must adapt and not oppose. it's a realistic vision with a potential for effectiveness that i think is significant. understanding the changing world and channeling efforts to respond to it is more appropriate than believing in the possibility of avoiding it indefinitely. or even to believe that this opposition is, in itself, virtuous. adjustment to globalisation is a more appropriate policy option than opposition to globalisation.
in writing. - one of the most important factors in the crisis in the financial system was the excessive ease of supply, the excessive tolerance of indebtedness. it must be concluded, first, that the obligation on banks to ensure the ability/probability of those to whom they lend to comply seems to be a path that should be fruitful, despite the reality of the crisis and its causes. at the same time, the lack of awareness among consumers of the risks associated with the granting of credit - from the very beginning on the question of the fluctuation of reference rates - suggests that some action can and should be taken with them. it is true that the pressure to adopt an economic model based on maximum consumption will hardly be counteracted by such campaigns, but the effort to raise awareness is still necessary and, we hope, useful. in any case, this report should encourage greater transparency and the imposition of clearer rules on the conditions under which credit institutions provide services. as regards education for credit or other types of consumption, it is emphasized that the most important is education in general, which provides citizens with tools for daily decisions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the busk report on the proposal to establish a fruit distribution scheme in schools, because i believe that community support for the free distribution of these products to children is fundamental to promoting healthy eating habits in the european union and, consequently, to improving the health of europeans. the high prevalence of obesity and overweight among the european population, particularly in childhood, is the result of the association between poor eating habits and sedentary lifestyle. it is therefore urgent to take effective measures to combat this epidemic, in particular by promoting healthy eating habits in the first years of life. schools, in conjunction with families, can play a key role in the adoption of a healthy diet.
in writing. − we support this report, to which we have contributed a number of proposals. despite the opposition of the european commission, the report advocates the daily free distribution of fresh fruit in schools to improve the health and quality of life of children, especially those from the most disadvantaged classes. support for this programme takes into account the need to stimulate young people to enjoy fruit and vegetables, which will have a highly positive effect on public health and the fight against child poverty. to be effective, however, it is important that this programme is extended to a wider group of children, and that in future it is extended to other age groups and disadvantaged sectors. it is important that it establishes community preference, that it gives priority to national and local production and that its financing is community-wide in order to contribute to greater social cohesion. this programme could be an example for a genuine policy of solidarity between countries. we hope that this will not become just another propaganda exercise and that it will be possible to reach an agreement at council level so that the funds necessary for its effectiveness at the level of the various countries are made available.
in writing. - the merits of what is at stake in this report are clear. encouraging (and in some cases simply ensuring) the consumption of seasonal fruit among the younger layers of the population has virtuous purposes. whether it's in the immediate, promoting a rich diet, or in terms of creating healthy eating habits. however, two points should be noted. by multiplying the mechanisms for guaranteeing that the fruit offered is of european production, it seems that the motive for this action is not only the diet of young people, but rather the promotion of european agriculture. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. the choice between the distribution of apples or rock pears is left to the discretion of the member states. but there will always be doubts about the need for a community level for such a measure.
in writing. - we voted consistently against this report which undermines the stability pact, which does not take account of the serious economic and social situation, which ignores the worsening social and regional inequalities, which forgets the increase in unemployment and poverty. it is unacceptable that the report insists on the false autonomy of the ecb, instead of defending its democratic control and the modification of its objectives to take account of the need to focus on production, the creation of jobs with rights and the improvement of the purchasing power of the population, in particular workers and pensioners. unfortunately, the proposals put forward by our group, in particular those criticising tax and competition policies, calling attention to the growth of precarious work and low wages and to the consequences of deregulation and liberalisation, were rejected. it is also regrettable that they have rejected our proposal to repeal the stability pact and replace it with a new strategy for solidarity, development and social progress.
in writing. - gender pay discrimination is a problem throughout europe. community legislation on equal pay for men and women, in force since 1975 and revised in 2006, is clearly ineffective. we welcome the rapporteur's request to the commission for a legislative proposal by 31 december 2009 on the basis of the recommendations contained in her report. we welcome the responsible seriousness with which you have presented your recommendations, focusing them on the essential problem, in contrast to some amendments introduced by the socialists which do not contribute to solving this problem - details of political folklore or recommendations which cannot be implemented because they are within the sphere of competence of the member states. in portugal, under the current government, between 2005 and 2006, the gender pay gap increased by 8.9% in equal circumstances. the unemployment benefit paid to women in 2007 was 21.1% less than that paid to men. the amounts paid to women are below the poverty line, also in the social unemployment allowance, and decreased between 2006 and 2007. the psd meps support this report. despite the socialist folklore, we do not confuse the essential with the accessory and we will not let the accessory destroy the essential - the change of an unacceptable discriminatory situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bauer report on equal pay for women and men because it is not acceptable that women receive lower wages (the difference in the eu is 15%), even though they have more qualifications (58% of graduates and 41% of doctorates are women). the report sets out measures to review the current legislative framework, including suggesting the introduction of penalties for non-compliance and calling for greater dialogue with the social partners. the principle of equal pay for equal work or equal value is not just a women's struggle, but a society-wide struggle. women are needed in all areas of activity, especially in those traditionally considered to be male. it's been proven that women are good managers. in the current context, and in order to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, the active participation of women is essential.
in writing. - although the report was adopted with most of the amendments introduced during the debate in the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which had made it a good report, the epp did not give up on weakening its scope in the plenary vote, knowing that a qualified majority of 393 votes was needed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament elections. but it is still a positive resolution, and we have therefore voted in favour of it. we continue to insist on the need for measures that give value to work, that give priority to employment with rights and a fair distribution of wealth, that help to overcome wage differences and stereotypes linked to tasks and sectors of activity which discriminate against women, that value occupations and activities where women predominate, particularly in trade and services and in industries such as cork, textiles and clothing, footwear, food and other sectors where very low wages are maintained in occupations and categories in which women predominate.
the following is the report by mrs piia-noora kauppi, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directives 68/151/eec and 89/666/eec as regards publication and translation obligations for certain types of company (com (2008) 0194 - c6-0171/2008 - 2008/0083 (cod)) (a6-0400/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 november 2008.
the report by mr andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics (com (2007) 0625 - c6-0346/2007 - 2007/0220 (cod)) (a6-0349/2008) is reproduced below.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 november 2008.
the joint debate follows on the report by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation of 18 february 2002 establishing a mechanism for medium-term financial support for member states' balance of payments (com (2008) 0717 - c6-0389/2008 - 2008/0208 (cns)) and the commission statement on financial support to the member states.
the horror in the kivus again and the international inability to put an end to it are as shocking as the rapacity of the rwandan and congolese leaders who perpetuate this situation of organized chaos to cover up the sinister plundering of the region's natural resources. and what can the european union do? in a country where he has had and has several esdp missions and where the first democratic elections would not have taken place without european support. a country that devotes millions to development and humanitarian aid. in a country of undeniable strategic importance and where 5 million people have died at the mercy of the most barbaric violence in recent years. the european union must go far beyond the minimum that has been decided since the beginning of this latest military escalation. it is not enough to increase humanitarian aid and launch diplomatic initiatives in which disarmament promises and declarations of goodwill are reiterated for the umpteenth time. it is urgent that the european union strengthens monuc so that it can regain its lost credibility and effectiveness. and that is not enough to introduce resolutions in the security council. the european union should immediately engage with the kdp and provide material and, if necessary, soldiers to help fill the gaps in monuc. in the final analysis, if the new york proceedings and the situation on the ground warrant it, the eu cannot and should not rule out the deployment of a military mission within the framework of the esdp. it's our responsibility to protect what's at stake. these are human lives of defenseless civilians in need of immediate international protection. never again! we must take this seriously and not allow the genocide in rwanda and the massacres in congo to happen again.
madam president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the powers of the world have the international financial system in their hands at this point. they're trying to get their hands on him, and it's about time. and so, perhaps it's time that we solve, by now, another problem that we've heard about for decades. we have heard this song of the despicable plundering of resources for decades - how many times, as now again in the congo, about the blood of the people? i believe it is time to prosecute these companies too, to prosecute this despicable trade, to freeze the accounts through which they circulate and where the shameful profits from this exploitation of mineral resources are deposited at the cost of the blood and suffering of the people. i don't understand why these companies aren't listed under the same heading as we already blacklist terrorist organizations. and i don't understand why the international community is not able to prosecute these businessmen who, strictly speaking, are not businessmen, they are real thugs who threaten regional security and global security. i encourage the french presidency and the commission to take the lead in an international initiative in this direction.
the crisis in the automobile industry has many causes, but one of the most important is certainly the fall in the purchasing power of the majority of the population, as a result of their low incomes, particularly wages, precarious work and unemployment. one of the most effective measures would thus be to increase wage incomes through a fair distribution of income. but of course other measures are immediately necessary. the fact is that the decline in production by car manufacturers has repercussions in many other sectors of activity, including the various component industries and transport itself, which can aggravate the entire economic and social situation. so, just as there were exceptional measures for the financial sector, exceptional measures are required for the automobile sector in order to safeguard employment. it cannot be accepted that the defence of production and employment should not be given the same importance as the financial sector. there must be the solidarity needed to support industry in the european union, especially in the most fragile economies and sectors. in portugal, this situation is worrying, as the sector is very dependent on the strategy of multinationals. in recent years there have been several relocations, both in the production of cars, as in the case of opel and renault, and in the production of components, notably yazaki saltano and lear, and the threat of job losses in others, such as sunviauto and delphi, and in hundreds of micro and small enterprises affected by the situation. in some cases, there are stoppages of production for a few days, such as at autoeuropa in palmela and at the renault component plant in cacia, aveiro, on the grounds of lack of orders. with fewer cars and fewer components coming in and out, freight transport is also affected. that is why, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office, it is essential that there should be extraordinary support from the european union to support industrial production and safeguard employment with rights.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a common framework for the systematic production of community statistics on public health and health and safety at work. at present, statistical information on public health and health and safety at work is mainly collected on a voluntary basis. the adoption of this regulation will formalise the current gentlemen's agreement and ensure the continuity of data collection, as well as its quality and comparability. at first reading in 2007, the european parliament approved 12 amendments to the commission proposal. most of the amendments concerned horizontal issues such as the inclusion of gender and age in the breakdown variables and the use of additional and complementary funding provided by certain community programmes in the two areas covered by the regulation. some amendments were also adopted to the annexes on public health and health and safety at work, in particular as regards the collection of data on protection against possible pandemics and communicable diseases. following the subsequent negotiations with the slovenian presidency, almost all the amendments adopted by the european parliament were incorporated into the common position. the council also made some amendments to the text which, given their generic nature, did not raise any problems.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a common framework for the systematic production of community statistics on public health and health and safety at work. statistics should take the form of a harmonised and common data set and be produced by the european statistical system, the national statistical institutes and other national bodies responsible for the provision of official statistics. to date, statistical information on public health and health and safety at work is mainly collected on a voluntary basis. i agree with the proposed regulation because it aims to consolidate the progress made in regular data collection in the two areas in question by formalising the current informal agreement between member states, ensuring continuity of data collection and establishing a regulatory framework to improve quality standards and comparability through common methodologies. it will certainly provide greater clarity in terms of planning, sustainability and stability of european requirements for public health and safety statistics at work.
in writing. - despite the improvements introduced in this report, to which we have contributed, in particular by the adoption of our proposal to increase the starting base for modulation from eur 5 000 to eur 10 000, with the aim of promoting greater social justice in the distribution of aid to farmers, we regret that others have been rejected, although some have obtained more than 200 votes in favour, as was the case with support for sugar production in the azores. we also regret that the introduction of a simplified aid for farmers receiving amounts of eur 1000 or less was not approved, despite the fact that it received 175 votes in favour. this was a way of combating the social insensitivity of the european commission's proposal by simplifying the process and combating the bureaucracy which was used as a pretext by the european commission to propose that support below eur 250 per year be ended, which could harm some 90,000 portuguese small farmers. so, despite our final vote against the report, we will continue to defend the proposals we have put forward, because we believe that they are the ones that best defend portuguese farmers and our family farming.
in writing. - while i agree with the need to review support schemes for farmers, i believe that the commission's proposals go far beyond what is necessary, seriously undermining farmers' incomes, which are the guarantor of the maintenance of the european rural landscape and of crucial importance in view of our food sovereignty. the capoulas santos report improves the commission proposal in many respects, and the most important is the greater flexibility given to the member states in setting minimum thresholds for receiving aid. i also voted in favour of the threshold of eur 10 000 per year for the application of modulation, which favours many small and mediumsized farmers, and the non-application of the higher rates of modulation to cooperatives or other legal entities composed of several farmers which do not exceed eur 100 000 in isolation, in order to avoid unfair penalisation of farmers. the report is not the ideal one, for example because it does not allow for the redistributive effect of supplementary modulation, so i regard the final result of the vote in plenary as positive and therefore vote in favour of the legislative resolution.
in writing. − the discussion on the cap health review was an excellent opportunity to start an in-depth debate on its reform, which will take place in 2013. to succeed, we must tread a prudent path, placing the emphasis on competitiveness as well as on the environmental, social, rural development and food security dimensions. the agreement between the main political groups, largely due to the efforts of the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, already points to some solutions and ways forward which the council is now expected to follow. while it is true that this is not a matter for co-decision today, parliament has worked in that spirit and governments should take advantage of that. i voted in favour of the package because it is important that the result achieved in the community's share of insurance premiums and the non-elimination of subsidies of lesser value, which have a great weight in countries like portugal, is achieved. as the balanced solution for modulation in support for rural development stands out. in the case of milk quotas, it is regrettable that a balance has not been achieved which would avoid the foreseeable losses for producers in regions such as the north, the centre of the country and the azores.
in writing. - we regret that our proposals, which advocated another common agricultural policy, based on support for farmers who produce to combat the instability of productive sectors due to price fluctuations, on market regulation mechanisms guaranteeing a decent income to small and mediumsized farmers, to prevent the decline of the rural world and the desertification of many regions, have been rejected. we also regret that our proposal to ensure that the european community finances public insurance in the member states to guarantee a minimum income to farmers in certain circumstances, namely public disasters such as drought, storms, hail, forest fires or animal diseases, has been rejected. we reject the announced end of the milk quota system, the renationalisation of the cap costs and the continuation of unfair aid allocations. the insistence on defending the european commission's proposals, even with some amendments, is not a strong enough basis to demand a different position from the council.
in writing. - although i believe that the amendments to the cap advocated by the commission are necessary, i believe that, as regards milk quotas, the commission's proposal is very damaging to the less competitive european regions which are more dependent on the milk sector. i therefore believe that the dismantling of milk quotas should not have been started with regulation (ec) no 248/2008 and that this dismantling should not have been continued as proposed by the commission and accepted by the rapporteur. the capoulas santos report is less negative in that it points to the preparation of a report in 2010 to analyse the situation on the milk market. i therefore do not vote against this report, but i think it is very positive that the amendments concerning sugar refining in the azores have been adopted, which may allow this activity to continue in a region with no major economic alternatives.
mr president, mr minister, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the last speaker, i am clearly against a strong europe and therefore support active policies for the admission of economic migrants. the only way to have a balanced immigration policy is to be strong in fighting illegal immigration and to be brave in regulating legal immigration. it is in this context that we have adopted the directive on the blue card. we do not want to limit migration to highly skilled people, however, leaving out all other migrant workers with lower qualifications. in the years ahead, both categories are essential for europe's economic and social development. and we're talking about many millions of people. for this reason, i also support the proposal for a directive to establish a single procedure for the granting of a single residence and work permit. in addition to bringing clear advantages in terms of simplification, reduction of bureaucracy and facilitation of control of their status, it allows the creation of a single, cross-cutting framework of rights which should be recognised for migrant workers legally resident in the territory of the union. with the exception of seasonal and highly skilled workers, who will have sectoral directives, all will be able to enjoy a set of labour rights equivalent to those enjoyed by nationals of the host member state. this equal treatment throughout the community should make it possible to combat any exploitation of labour and to improve the integration of these workers, thus contributing to greater social cohesion. i agree with what ewa klamt points out: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good one, but it is not enough to make the directive more effective. i would like to end, mr president, by applauding the efforts of mr klamt and mr gaubert and by saying that i regret that once again it seems that the opinion of this parliament is not very decisive. all indications are that there is already a political decision taken in the council which has not waited for a vote in the european parliament, and i regret that.
in writing. regarding the 'establishment of conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of highly qualified employment' in the eu (the so-called 'blue card') and the creation of a 'single application procedure for residence and work authorisation', we consider, among other important aspects, that such initiatives cannot be decontextualised from eu immigration policy. in other words, they only make sense and reveal their full scope if they are integrated into the other pillars of this policy, reaffirmed in the 'european pact on immigration': criminalisation of immigrants, detention centres, 'return' directive; border control, creation of frontex; 're-admission agreements' as a clause in 'cooperation' agreements. the so-called 'blue card', by introducing discrimination against immigrants, seeks to meet the neo-liberal objectives of the 'lisbon strategy' and the labour needs in the eu (established by quotas), reducing the immigrant to a 'labour force', promoting the depredation of the human resources of third countries - in particular their most qualified workers - and implementing dangerous centralised eu systems for the storage and collection of data on immigrants. in other words, the 'blue card' and its 'single procedure' form a pillar of the eu's inhumane immigration policy, which criminalises and expels or exploits and discards immigrants.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. on this same day in 1997, the convention against anti-personnel mines was opened for signature in ottawa. these instruments do not share only the date of signature. both of these conventions are not yet supported, shamefully, by countries representing a large part of humanity, such as the united states, china, india, iran, pakistan, russia and israel. the oslo convention was negotiated in dublin, and 22 of the 107 signatories are members of the european union. we hope that cyprus, poland, romania, latvia and greece will drop their reservations without delay, allowing the european union to stand united in its opposition to these weapons which indiscriminately kill and maim. these weapons are not only immoral, they are increasingly useless from a military standpoint. it is the european defence agency itself that, in its long-term vision for european defence capability and capacity needs, explains that: serious thought needs to be given to the future utility of unguided munitions, as well as cluster bombs, mines and other weapons of indiscriminate effect. the european military forces, and not only european military forces, are increasingly operating in the midst of the civilian population and the objective is less and less to destroy an easily identifiable enemy. therefore, cluster munitions are not only incompatible with humanitarian law, but have also proven to be of limited utility. international law, moral imperatives and the most basic military logic converge on the urgency of putting an end to these weapons. the oslo convention must therefore be ratified by all.
mr president, commissioner, for the past two months the political and media agendas have been dominated by the financial and economic crisis. the irish referendum or the difficulties in the czech republic over the lisbon treaty have hardly any expression in the media. do you not think that the commission's information and communication strategy should now be strengthened by the need and urgency of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, also as a political response to face and overcome the crisis we are living in?
i would like to stress that, in our view, this debate should be entitled 'economic and social policy and its impact on demographic trends' rather than 'demographic trends and economic and social impact'. projections of demographic trends in a country or region should not be dissociated from the policies adopted in that country or region, as these integrate the factors that determine and condition its demographic evolution. for example, 50-year projections are made on the basis of assumptions which should be made explicit, including the economic policies that determine the advanced scenarios. in other words, in the face of the advanced projections, what should be discussed today are the consequences for the demographic evolution of unemployment, the increase in job insecurity, the deregulation of working hours, a monetary policy centred on moderation and the devaluation of wages. what should be discussed today are the consequences of the european union's interest rate policy for thousands and thousands of families who took out loans to buy housing, the consequences of the liberalization and privatisation of public services, the consequences of low reforms and pensions for the autonomy and quality of life of millions of pensioners and pensioners. what should be discussed are policies that promote the centralization and concentration of wealth and the increase in social inequalities. the debate is really about whether or not human rights are being respected, such as the right to food, employment, a decent wage, housing, health, education and leisure.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the court of auditors on the excellent work it has done and on the fact that it has made that work much more comprehensible to all of us and indeed to european citizens in general. in any case, i would like to see the court's report give concrete details of the names and cases that have been examined. it is not about doing what some colleagues would call naming and shaming, but perhaps more naming and understanding. that is, only by describing the concrete cases can we understand the problem. and what i have noticed, particularly in the structural funds, is that we are faced with regulatory frameworks that require often absurd things and this is the responsibility of the member states as well as ours, and we have to look at these regulatory frameworks with the utmost attention. we will also be discussing the european parliament's budget and its implementation in 2007. in 2007 there was indeed a purchase of buildings here in strasbourg, a purchase for which we were given absolute certification that there was no asbestos in these buildings. just that purchase was made, we learned that there was asbestos in something like 50 locations of this building. it is a serious situation that cannot but deserve our utmost attention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we cannot use a health issue for purposes which are not of any interest here. but the health issue exists and i would like to have clear assurances from the secretary-general that the asbestos-removal plan that is being proposed is compatible with the continued use of these buildings. i, after several months, am still waiting for those guarantees. i have read and i have had hundreds of pages of reports, photographs, with a lot of very interesting things, but this i did not have, and this is indispensable to have, because without it we cannot be sure that we can work here in conditions of full security. i would therefore like to remind you that when we discharge the european parliament's budget, this matter must be fully clarified, otherwise we cannot give a positive signal.
in writing. − we generally agree with the report and particularly with the ombudsman's conclusions that the council's refusal to examine the content of the complainant's request constitutes maladministration and that it would be ideal if the information on these websites were available in time in all the official languages of the community. however, we disagree with point (d) of the report's conclusions, which refers to the if the number of languages has to be restricted, the choice must be based on objective, reasonable, transparent and practicable criteria. we believe that the council's website should, like those of the european parliament and the european commission, have all the information in all the official languages of the european union. only in this way will multilingualism and cultural diversity be defended, which the community's leaders claim to defend, but which in practice they constantly call into question in the name of economism.
in writing. - although there are contradictory aspects to the resolution adopted by the majority of the european parliament, with one or other positive aspects, the dominant line is that, in the name of population ageing and demographic change, it seeks to justify a greater fragility of the public and universal social security system, in order to respond to the interests of the private financial sector, which aims to manage the largest possible share of this cake. see, for example, the following paragraph: recalls that the trend towards individualisation contributes to the modernisation of the second and third pillars, without undermining the first pillar of social security systems; this is to allow people, especially women and other vulnerable groups, more freedom of choice and thus to become more independent and able to constitute their own additional pension rights. in other words, in the name of freedom, people are being led to look for alternative financial solutions to public social security, even though the negative results of all this are already known. recent cases in the united states are an example of this. but capitalism always tries to use propaganda to get its way. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - despite the adoption in the ep of amendments - which we voted in favour of - which downplay some of the negative aspects of the proposal to create the so-called blue card at european union level, we consider that they do not call into question either the grounds or the central objectives of the proposal for a directive submitted by the european commission to the council. the so-called blue card is an instrument which seeks to meet the neo-liberal objectives of the lisbon strategy with regard to the needs of exploiting labour. in the context of capitalist competition, particularly with the usa (which has a green card), the eu is seeking to attract highly skilled labour at the expense of human resources from third countries. in other words, the so-called blue card (which reduces immigration to exploitation and discriminates and selects immigrants according to the labour needs of eu countries) and the so-called return directive (which will increase the arbitrariness of expulsions and increase the difficulties and obstacles to family reunification) are two sides of the same coin, that is, they are instruments (coherent with each other) and pillars of the same policy: the eu's inhumane immigration policy that criminalizes and expels or exploits and discards immigrants. that is why we are voting against it!
in writing. - as in the ep's opinion on the so-called blue card, despite the adoption in the ep of amendments - which we voted in favour of - which minimize some of the negative aspects of the proposal to create a single procedure for residence and work permits for an immigrant in a country of the european union, we consider that they do not call into question either the grounds or the central objectives of the proposal for a directive submitted by the european commission to the council. as our group has stressed, the single procedure is intended to harmonize procedures and immigrant rights, which in fundamental respects, rather than strengthening them, limit them. for example, by making immigration conditional on the existence of an employment contract and not by equating the conditions for immigrants in general with those for the so-called blue card. in other words, the so-called single procedure and the so-called return directive (which will increase the arbitrariness of expulsions and increase the difficulties and obstacles to family reunification) are two sides of the same coin, i.e. they are instruments (coherent with each other) and pillars of the same policy: the eu's inhumane immigration policy which criminalizes and expels or exploits and discards immigrants. that is why we are voting against it!
in writing. the main issue with regard to wine is the content of the recently approved common organization of the market in wine, which in our opinion has very negative aspects, particularly for portuguese production, which is mainly based on small and medium-sized farms. in fact, its practical effects are already beginning to be felt, as many farmers with whom i have been in contact have told me. but there do not seem to be any major difficulties in including them in a single common market organization, which would concentrate all the instruments of market regulation, both common and uncommon to the various sectors. it can only be a matter of simplification, provided that it does not mean eliminating instruments or having different legal understandings. as the problem with wine is the reform that has been made and has already been adopted, although we are opposed to it, it is a little bit indifferent whether it is now included in the single cmo or not, since this does not change its practical effects. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - it is undeniable that both terrorism and crime are terrible threats which must be fought with the instruments which seem most effective for this purpose. it is also important to prevent each member state from setting up its own pnr system. at present there are three member states which have done so, with a number of differences between them both in the obligations imposed on carriers and in the objectives. however, a basic rule of data protection is that any new instrument should only be adopted if the need for the transfer of such personal data and the specific purposes of such transfer are clearly established. the proposal that the commission is presenting to us is too vague and does not clarify what added value the collection of pnr data will bring, nor what its relationship will be with the control measures already in place for entry into the eu for security purposes, such as sis, vis and the api system. i think it is essential that, before we take any final decisions, the usefulness of this data is clearly demonstrated and what specific purposes it can serve, ensuring that the principle of proportionality is respected and that appropriate legal safeguards are put in place.
in writing. - while disagreeing with some aspects of this resolution, notably its failure to demarcate the so-called fight against terrorism, we believe that it reaffirms important reservations regarding the creation of an eu-wide pnr (airline passenger) data system. among other things, the resolution: - regrets that the justification for the proposed establishment of a pnr data system in the eu reveals considerable legal uncertainties as regards its compatibility with the european convention on human rights (echr); - considers that its aim is not to harmonize national systems (as there are none), but to make it compulsory to set up such systems; - expresses concern that the proposal essentially allows police authorities to access all data without any warrant; - reiterates its concern about measures concerning the indiscriminate use of pnr data for profiling and risk assessment parameters; - stresses that the evidence so far presented by the us has never conclusively proved that the massive and systematic use of pnr data is necessary in the said fight against terrorism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the european union's response to the deteriorating situation in the east of the democratic republic of the congo, as i consider it very worrying what is happening: millions of dead, hundreds of thousands of refugees and heinous crimes against the most defenseless people. on the other hand, there is a potential for contagion of the conflict to neighbouring countries. the resolution thus goes in the right direction, in particular by calling for the prosecution and punishment of the perpetrators of these crimes against humanity and by making efforts to strengthen and enforce the agreements already in place - whether by providing more resources to monuc or by international pressure on the actors involved. the european union should also prevent and prevent european companies from exploiting minerals from that area, since the sale of these minerals finances the conflict. we must do everything in our power to prevent another tragedy in africa.
in writing. - among the important issues and priorities identified by this european parliament resolution on a european space policy, this brief statement of vote is intended to denounce the fact that the majority of this parliament advocates the use of space for military purposes. this is the conclusion to be drawn from the rejection of the amendments tabled by our group, which reiterated that space should be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and that the use of space should serve exclusively non-military purposes, rejecting any direct or indirect military use. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's space programme is fully implemented. believes that european security and defence capabilities depend, among other factors, on the availability of satellite-based systems ... that is the use of space in the context of the militarization of the eu and the arms race.
in writing. − the convention on cluster munitions (ccm), adopted by 107 countries in 2008, will start its ratification process on 3 december and will enter into force after 30 ratifications have been secured. the convention aims to prohibit the use, production, stockpiling and transfer of all categories of weapons containing cluster munitions and requires signatory states to destroy their stockpiles. the european parliament resolution we have signed calls on all signatory states to ratify the jcc as soon as possible and to take national measures to start implementing it before it is ratified. the resolution calls upon all states not to use, invest, store, produce, transfer or export cluster munitions until the entry into force of this convention. it also called on all eu member states to provide assistance to the affected populations and to support the removal and destruction of spent cluster munitions. finally, it called on all eu member states not to take any action that would circumvent or call into question the ccm and its provisions, including through a possible protocol to the convention on the prohibition of certain conventional weapons, which would allow the use of cluster munitions.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). the latest statistics continue to indicate not only an increase in the number of new cases of hiv infection within the eu, but also a large number of cases of infected patients who remain undiagnosed. one reason for the rapid spread of hiv infection in many eu countries is that many drug users are infected and are a focus of spread by sharing injectable devices. the annual eurohiv report on the evolution of drug use in the european union places portugal as the country with the highest number of detected hiv/aids cases among drug addicts. the annual healthcare survey, ehci 2008, reports that portugal ranks among the lowest in the healthcare system in europe. one of the criticisms of the portuguese health system is that it has not yet been able to solve its access/treatment waiting time problem. eurostat continues to indicate portugal as the country with the highest rate of aids-related deaths. the comparative analysis of portugal's data with its eu partners makes it clear that something is wrong with our national strategy. we need to reflect and analyse where we are failing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on early diagnosis and treatment of hiv/aids, as i consider it urgent to strengthen measures and actions to diagnose and treat this disease, in view of the alarming increase in the number of new cases of people infected in the european union. prevention and treatment actions are essential to halt the growing wave of this epidemic. i therefore believe that it is necessary to promote easier access to information, counselling, health care and social services. in addition, it is essential that member states adopt measures to eliminate discrimination against persons living with hiv/aids, including restrictions on their freedom of movement within their jurisdiction.
in writing. - the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is therefore necessary to solve these problems by applying the community preference and combating unfair competition for beekeeping products from third countries. and immediately increase research into the pests, diseases and their origins that decimate bees, including the responsibility of gmos, by making additional budgetary resources available for such research. the missing aspect of the resolution is the responsibility of cap reforms in this whole problem. rural desertification, the dismantling of production in vast areas and the introduction of genetically modified species have led to a loss of biodiversity. similarly, production methods have been promoted which are not dependent on the specific geographical and climatic conditions of each region. an agricultural policy which reversed this course would, in addition to the measures mentioned above, make a major contribution to solving the problem of the beekeeping sector.
in writing. - it is true that greater attention must be paid to environmental issues and that measures must be taken to avoid the constant environmental degradation which threatens the present and future of the planet and the quality of life of the population. it is therefore essential to have a greater sensitivity to the enforcement of standards which respect the environment and take account of the specificities of each country, including social implications. this also requires a more supportive policy to take account of different levels of development and economic capacity. however, not all of these aspects are adequately safeguarded in the european union's environmental legislation and its policies are not sufficiently coherent. we therefore have the greatest doubts about the political will of the european commission to solve this complex problem, and we run the risk of going further into the gap of regional and social inequalities with some of the proposals put forward in this resolution. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleagues on the envi committee on the wording of both the oral question and the resolution, because they make very clear the need for proper implementation of community environmental legislation. they therefore call on the commission to move forward with a proposal for a directive on environmental inspections, clarifying the definitions and criteria and broadening the scope. both documents also underline the need to strengthen the european network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation (impel) and to support environmental education and information provision, with specific content determined at local, regional or national level, based on the needs and problems identified in a given area. if the eu's policy of environmental rigour is not advanced, citizens' expectations will be frustrated and the eu's role as an effective guardian of the environment will be compromised.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to add my voice to that of all the members who have already spoken on this subject. it is yet another state where a logic of religious fanaticism is taking root; where, in the name of a justice that hides behind a religion, all the fundamental principles of our entire civilization are being called into question, and this situation is absolutely intolerable. i would like to say, in addition to all that has been said, that we must not forget the serious famine in that region, in somalia and also in ethiopia. it is clear that it has nothing to do with it, and nothing excuses whatever it is, but we also have to look at this very serious humanitarian problem which is developing in that country at this very moment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as already mentioned, there is indeed sharia law which is already applied in a third of the country, there is a clear degradation of human rights. at this point i would like to say that before we speak or condemn anyone, religious leaders of any religion, and particularly the islamic religion, we have to bear in mind that our fundamental role is to dialogue and encourage muslim leaders who do not share this fanatical view. and i guarantee you there are many, and i know a lot of them. the problem is that often, instead of seeing the european institutions turn to the country, to islam, which shares our values and our views, we see the opposite. we see the european institutions only concerned with appeasing the most fanatical, the worst, those who also trample on the human rights of all muslims, because muslims are - it must be understood - the main victims of this state of affairs. they are our greatest allies. they're the ones we have to work with. it is with them that we socialists will surely be able to meet these challenges.
mr president, i believe that there are two fundamental issues to be taken into account in this debate, the first of which is that we are dealing with a judicial system which is one of the most independent in the world. a judicial system that recently led to the forced resignation of the president of his own country. secondly, it is not possible to compare this legal dispute that has been going on for decades and had to do with property and the non-payment of rent, with, for example, the expulsion of millions of iraqis that very recently and still every day happens, without anyone having thought of questioning the legitimacy of the iraqi government, without anyone having a sense of balance about what is happening in this whole region. because it's balance that we have to talk about. it's the question of balance that's crucial. and i must say that i was horrified by what i heard here, about calling into question the existence of the state of israel.
mr president, i would like to say that respect for the human dignity of everyone, the al-kurd family, whatever their religion, wherever they come from and whatever their colour, is my main concern. and it is deeply offensive to me that someone would want to question that just because i have a different opinion from that person on a particular piece of legislation.
president of the council. - mr president, madam vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has touched on three essential points which i will now come back to, but first i would like to thank mr von wogau and also mr kirkhope, who thanked the french presidency for what has been done in respect of the european citizens who were caught up in the tragedies in bombay. we have worked well with the secretariat-general of the european parliament with regard to your representatives and the officials who were there, but i must say, as has been stressed on several occasions, that we must continue to work on what must be a better coordination of the consulates, the diplomatic services on the ground, in this type of crisis, in what is happening in thailand today as well. we have succeeded in doing so and we must continue to do so. having been in roissy when the plane arrived from bombay, i could see that there were still eleven european nationalities represented on that chartered plane. i would also like to say - mrs gill has mentioned this, mr von wogau has also mentioned this - that it is true that europe must be present, must do more in relation to these terrorist risks, in this region of the world as in other regions. this raises the problem which was not raised during the debate, but it is one of the points which will also be discussed at the european council , of the european security strategy. we need to adapt and update this strategy to respond to terrorist threats, to respond to cybercrime, to respond to new risks. we also need to improve - i am glad mrs gill asked this question - our arrangements for planning and conducting civil and military operations at european level. these aspects of the european security and defence policy are, as you know, important and the french presidency wishes to ensure that we make progress in this area and that there are clear guidelines to be taken before the end of the year. i now come to all that has been said on the institutional problems and the treaty. i understand, and i thank them for their speeches and mrs doyle and mrs mcguinness, who were extremely clear and responsible. i have also heard mr brok, mr corbett, mr von wogau, mr duff and mr jo leinen on this subject. first of all, i think we're making progress. we are making progress by taking seriously, i want to say to mrs doyle and mrs mcguinness, the irish requests. we understand them, we also understand the irish political situation, what has been done in the irish parliament, what efforts are being made along this difficult path. we can see that. what is needed is that each one of us show responsibility. we will show that we are, we will propose something balanced that will allow us to move forward and move forward together, together, i say, towards implementing the lisbon treaty when the time comes, but i fully understand the constraints of the agenda, which are those of our irish friends. they must be respected, there are also political deadlines, and they must be taken into account. joinen has pointed this out. we need more communication, we need to be closer to the ground, and that is what we are doing with mrs wallström, who is more competent than i am in this respect, but who has made a great effort. we have reached agreement on the political strategy for communication with your parliament, between the council and the commission, and mrs wallström has also developed a strategy which, as i heard in dublin, was welcomed by all. it is true that more effort is needed in this area, including in the area of communication. in relation to all that has been said, particularly by our polish friends, on the energy-climate package, it is clear that we must take account of the specific features of the countries which, as i said, were in the most difficult energy structures in order to meet the objectives. we must keep these objectives. i believe that there are ways of taking into account the flexibility needed to accommodate the specificities and requests that have been made by our polish friends. the french presidency is doing everything in its power to find and secure the necessary compromises while respecting these objectives, but please know that in this respect, as regards the specificity of poland, the other countries of central and eastern europe and the baltic states, we take this into consideration as well as the requests relating to energy security. what i would like to say to mrs doyle, who also stressed this in her speech, is that codecision is indeed at the heart of the french presidency's concerns. she knows that. the council and the european parliament have put in place a negotiating process - the trilogue - which has been developed over the last month with considerable investment, and the results of this trilogue - mrs doyle knows this well - represent practically 90% of the package. so what we have to do is the last line, the last 10 per cent on the issues that have been raised by many of the members in these debates. as regards the economic and financial crisis, what has been said seems to me to be important and, as has already been said, the council and the commission are motivated by a sense of urgency. what i would like to say is that i thank mr pirilli for his innovative ideas on the use of reserves, and i would like to tell mr bonsignore that the plan also depends on what is available at community level. we cannot go ahead with a plan without ignoring the competences that exist at community level, the instruments that exist, the budget that is available. we can't go any further than that. on the other hand, i think that the european central bank has been reactive and has acted well. a signal on rates is indeed expected. we shall see what the european central bank decides. all of this is welcome, i will not comment further. mr karas was quite right to point out that austria is a perfect example of this, that we must also seize the opportunities that are linked to the crisis, that the euro - and commissioner almunia knows this even better than i do - that the feeling of belonging to the european union, particularly in your own country, struck me as a great shock. it has been transformed and changed by this economic and financial crisis, and by the fact that the euro, for those in the euro zone and also outside, has become a reference and a symbol, and that is very encouraging. i would like to tell mrs belohorská that everything you have indicated, dear madam, will be faithfully reported to president sarkozy, and thank her for what has been said about the french presidency and its action, and finally tell president wolski that everything relating to the neighbourhood is important and that we will take into account at the council of foreign ministers on monday, at the foreign affairs council and at the european council, of course, the excellent eastern partnership proposal made by the european commission.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank all the contributors for your very constructive, relevant and interesting comments. there are two specific questions that i would like to answer initially and then perhaps i will focus on the treaty of lisbon. mr jouyet has already mentioned the fact – and this is in response to mr von wogau – that the council will adopt the report on five years of the european security strategy. may i add to what mr jouyet said: of course the treaty of lisbon would also help by greatly strengthening and simplifying the institutional structure in this area. this will be an opportunity for the council to look at how to help guarantee the coherence of all our instruments and the balance between hard and soft security. that was in response to mr von wogau. mr bernard wojciechowski asked about the eastern partnership. we can report from today’s commission meeting that we adopted a proposal on the eastern partnership, including a reinforced financing of activities, which covers economic integration, mobility issues, social and economic development policy, cooperation platforms, free trade and student mobility – all of these elements that are in this eastern partnership. i welcome the fact that we have now discussed and adopted such a plan. this debate has shown that this is an important moment for the european union. it has illustrated the whole concept of sustainability. sustainable development means that we cannot put ourselves in debt and then ask future generations to come up with a solution. we cannot send problems with regard to pollution, waste and environmental or climate change to future generations to solve for us. we cannot create social problems for the next generation to sort out for us. the whole definition of sustainable development is the fact that we have to look at ways to satisfy our needs in a way that does not impact on future generations and their wish to satisfy their needs. we have three central and linked issues to resolve in the next month – which have clearly come to the fore: the economic recovery plan, where decisive eu action can have a real impact on europe’s social and economic well-being over the coming year; the climate and energy package, which will put europe on track to lead the world in defining a credible, achievable path to a low-carbon future; and the treaty of lisbon, where we need to set out the way forward to achieving a treaty so that europeans can enjoy the benefits of a more democratic and efficient european union. i fully trust my colleagues commissioner almunia and commissioner dimas to discuss the recovery plan – as so many of you have commented on that – and the climate/energy package in more detail. i understand that will happen later today and tomorrow morning, so i will make just a few more comments about the treaty of lisbon. i think that these two issues are a perfect illustration of why we need the treaty of lisbon. climate change and the economic crisis require a european union that can make the right decisions quickly, efficiently and democratically. if europe is to do the ‘heavy lifting’ to deliver such fundamental change, it needs the right tools to do that job. the commitment of this parliament and of the commission to the treaty of lisbon has always been clear. we wanted a real step forward for europe, more powers for this directly elected parliament. for national parliaments, we wanted a greater say for citizens, streamlined institutions and more clarity on who does what in europe. delaying all of this is of course a disappointment, but it should not distract us from the central objective of seeing the treaty of lisbon in force. that means that we hope to be able to pursue the goal of full ratification and it means winning the case in ireland. i was in ireland myself last month and tried to explain why i think we need the treaty. i also set out to understand why irish voters had reservations. what i heard was very much in tune with the polling evidence that we have seen. on some issues – like taxation and defence issues – voters had concerns with no real basis in the treaty. on others, like the issue of the irish commissioner, they took a worst-case scenario arising from the implementation of the treaty. many felt that information was insufficient or unclear and that a ‘no’ vote was seen as the safest option. the excellent report that we have now received from the irish parliament’s special sub-committee makes a very important contribution to clarifying these concerns and also outlining possible options for resolving them. when asked, i told them that my impression was that there was a lot of goodwill around europe to help to address the concerns of the irish. the commission intends to do what it can to work with the parliament and the irish authorities to improve communication on europe in ireland. we are working on a memorandum of understanding to make sure that we can start doing this immediately, with the government and with the people in ireland. however, i also made it clear that my impression from talking to different member states was that there was no appetite for re-opening an institutional settlement that has taken seven years of long and arduous negotiations to reach a compromise, and that the 25 member states that have now ratified the treaty, many of whom had previously ratified the constitution – and two by referendums, remember – are not going to want to start that process again. with the european parliament elections coming up, it is time that we stopped talking about institutions and started talking about eu policies which matter to citizens and how to solve these big challenges and problems. next week’s european council should give us a clear road map to take this process forward with a sense of urgency. i am confident that it will provide the collective impetus necessary to achieving full ratification of the treaty. we will try to contribute to this in the best way we can as a commission.
the leaders of the european union are not satisfied with the popular vote in the only referendum that could be held on the draft treaty of lisbon, as required by their own national constitution, where the people repeated the no that the people of france and the netherlands had already decided on the said european constitution. once again, in an anti-democratic attitude and in complete disregard for the vote of the citizens, the pressures and blackmail are back to try to force ireland to hold a new referendum or, in other words, to change its own national constitution, to escape referendums and the vote of the people. we reaffirm our strongest protest against this position. what is urgent is a break with these policies. we want new directions for portugal and for europe, to give priority to people, to the improvement of collective welfare, to respect for the dignity of those who produce wealth, rejecting what president sarkozy calls 'the refoundation of capitalism' and saying no to the policy of economic and monetary union with its stability pact and the false autonomy of the ecb. this is not the case with the so-called 'european economic recovery plan'.
the next european council will be another step in the unacceptable attempt to impose a draft treaty which has already been rejected by the people three times. instead of respecting the will of the french, dutch and irish people, demonstrating the genuine undemocratic character of the european union, its institutions (the european parliament, the council and the european commission) insist on continuing the process of (parliamentary) ratification of the proposed treaty (which, so far, has not been completed by germany, poland and the czech republic), but always fleeing "like the devil from the cross" from the holding of referendums (as recently happened in sweden). the big business in europe and the executors of its policy - the right wing and social democrats - are disregarding the democratic and sovereign will expressed by the irish people and are seeking to 'isolate' them so that they can better pressure and blackmail them and force a new referendum, as they did with the treaty of nice. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this is the eu without a mask!
we have heard here today, many times, that a crisis usually creates an opportunity, and so it is. and if we want to seize the opportunity that is open to us, the timetable is easy to know. firstly, we know that at european union level we need to introduce mechanisms for transparency, regulation and supervision in the financial markets. and there is no need for commissioner mccreevy to launch further consultations, nor for the presidency to analyse and bring forward further studies and proposals - i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. secondly, internationally, europe cannot be passive in the international arena. it must be an active agent in the construction of the new international order, it must be the advocate of a new architecture which does not leave black holes in the system, as tax havens are at the moment. thirdly, we have heard the president of the commission say here today that there is a reluctance to coordinate strategies at the level of the different states. it is true that if we had not heard from many members of the commission for so long that markets are self-regulating, that the state must remain outside, that financial markets have no impact on growth or employment, perhaps there would be a more active and more active spirit of solidarity at the level of the different countries. but today, the proposal we have before us is a proposal that is only a first step, if we compare it with the chinese and the united states programme; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear what the objective is, and the objective must be employment. and thirdly, a european programme cannot be a summation of national agendas. today we must show the citizens of europe that europe is a network of economic rights which also protects them in times of crisis, in terms of solidarity, a growth programme and support for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are not currently benefiting from the interventions carried out at the level of the banks. that is what the real economy is all about, and we are here as europeans to show the citizens that europe is also here, and above all because of them.
mr president, urgent support for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises requires a substantial change in the policy that has been pursued in order to create a favourable environment, in particular by improving the purchasing power of the population and, in particular, the wages of workers. but it is not enough to announce measures and the opening of credit lines. it is necessary that this support actually reaches micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and does not get in the way of bureaucracy. they must not just support a few mediumsized enterprises and forget about micro and small enterprises, which play a key role in economic activity and the employment of workers, whose rights must also be guaranteed at all times throughout this process.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the resolution we are debating today shows that there is a consensus in this parliament on what the arms export policy of the european union member countries should be. the six largest political groups are united in their defence of a single list of legally binding criteria for european arms exports: the eight criteria of the code of conduct. all agree to appeal to the french presidency to resolve the impasse which has existed for three years and which only france can resolve. we have heard mr jouyet say a moment ago that france is now in favour of a legally binding code of conduct. we heard from the french minister of defence yesterday in the committee on foreign affairs that a recent proposal from his country to convert the code of conduct into a common position had run into a lack of consensus in the council. what the minister did not mention was that the french proposal was linked to the lifting of the arms embargo on china - and this is what led to the rejection of the french proposal by several member states. if this strategy is confirmed, this issue will represent a black spot on the security and defence agenda of the french presidency, which is distinguished by its european ambition and dynamism. in the face of growing european integration in the field of foreign policy, the policy of 'each for himself' in the field of arms exports is becoming less and less justified. it is true that the code of conduct is already being taken seriously in many capitals, but we must put an end to a situation where european countries, which systematically guide their exports by the criteria of human rights, sustainable development and regional stability, find themselves at a disadvantage compared to their peers who apply these same criteria selectively. the european presidencies are passing, the need for europe to have common criteria for arms exports is not, and so is the consistent position of this parliament in favour of a common position.
mr president, in defending the production and employment of the textile and clothing sector, i would like to take this opportunity to make a complaint and an appeal. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers.
under the pretext of the crisis of capitalism, more and more cases of blackmailing of workers are beginning to emerge, imposing conditions on them that lead to the loss of acquired rights. significant examples are those involving the peugeot/citroen tire production centre and the renault aveiro hunting unit, both in the automotive industry in portugal. in both cases, substantial community and national financial support was granted to safeguard employment and with the condition that more jobs would be created. however, at this moment, the management of peugeot/citroen in mangualde wants to destroy conquered rights enshrined in labour laws by pressuring workers to accept harmful conditions that affect their lives. at renault's cacia plant, management has decided to reduce production this year and is preparing not to renew fixed-term contracts, despite having pledged to increase... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. in particular, it is clear that states have an obligation to support the establishment of a register of natural persons who use shell companies for tax evasion. i also support mr staes' proposals. that said, it is not vat evasion that is the essence of tax evasion in europe, because there is legal evasion, which is permitted and enabled by governments and which takes place in the financial offshore. that's where the money of crime is recycled, that's where the money of law is criminalized. when our tax money is being used to bail out banks and bankers, the end of tax havens is the real test of courage that europe faces in the coming years. it is for this that we will be judged and we are still light years away from what is needed in the matter of tax evasion.
mr president, climate change is the great problem of our time. urgent action is needed to stop global warming. the copenhagen conference is the last chance to avoid a collapse at a time when positive signs are coming from the united states. with the election of president obama, the european union must present a credible and ambitious proposal to mobilise the other parties. as regards the sharing of effort, a matter on which i have been working as a shadow rapporteur for the socialist group and on which i hope that an agreement can be reached, i think that the member states must commit themselves to reducing co2 emissions internally and not only, and above all, at the expense of external credits. the financial crisis is not the result of environmental policies, as some here have said, it is the result of bad management and, probably, there are cases of policing and not of policy. the european parliament is doing its homework. the council is expected to do the same without giving in to national egotism and false arguments. the development of new technologies brings opportunities for the economy and for job creation. i would like to conclude, mr president-in-office, by appealing to all of us to make an effort to reach an agreement at first reading. the world needs an international agreement and citizens expect us to take action.
ladies and gentlemen, may i have your attention, please? although we are very close to the end of the debate, i will have to interrupt it for reasons you will understand. there will be a solemn session at 11:30 with his holiness the dalai lama, and after the solemn session this debate will continue. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. (the debate was suspended at 11.30 a.m. pending the formal sitting.)
in writing. − the republic of korea is the eu's fourth largest non-european trading partner and the eu is the largest foreign investor in the republic of korea. the agreement seeks to ensure 'mutual recognition of competition law between the european community and south korea' as 'the most effective way of dealing with anti-competitive behaviour' and seeks to minimise 'the use of trade defence instruments between the two parties', similar to those already adopted with the united states (1991), canada (1999) and japan (2003). the european parliament, however, stresses that the agreement should be seen 'in the context of the general framework of the existing agreements between the european community and the republic of korea and those currently under negotiation, in particular the negotiations on a potential free trade agreement', and, as the rapporteur points out, 'taking into account the difficulties encountered in other interregional and bilateral trade negotiations'. that is, the european parliament is advocating 'increased market access' with catastrophic consequences for, for example, industry and for employment in shipbuilding and ship repair in portugal, with its almost complete destruction. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - we consider that amendments have been introduced which improve the original proposal of the european commission, namely: the need to favour local production and products and in particular small farmers, to the detriment of production for export; the need to involve producer organisations in the definition of programmes and that they give priority to small farms; that no aid is granted for the production of raw materials for luxury goods or biofuels (we regret that gmos have not been excluded in this respect). however, it is imperative to stress that this initiative should be contextualised in eu policies, which could reduce it to a counterpart or condition for the imposition of its economic interests. we are talking about the pressure to conclude an agreement in the wto or the eu's economic partnership agreements with the acp countries, which the eu is trying to impose by exploiting the deepening economic crisis. it should also be noted that this initiative does not hide the reduction in so-called development aid by the eu, nor the huge sums of the relaunch of the arms race and the militarization of international relations that it is playing. it is clear that the eu is giving one hand, only to be given both later or immediately afterwards. hypocrisy.
in writing. - in general, we agree with the rapporteur's proposals to improve the european commission's document on the fight against tax fraud linked to intra-community transactions. it is true that vat evasion affects not only the financing of member states' budgets but also the overall balance of the eu's own resources system, in that the reduction in the vat own resource has to be offset by an increase in the own resource based on gross national income. i also think it is not a bad thing that there is an impact assessment report on this directive, paying particular attention to the administrative costs of the new formal obligations for the persons concerned and to the degree of effectiveness of the new obligations in the fight against tax evasion. but we have serious reservations about the relative fairness of the rules and application of the existing system. that is why we abstained on this report.
in writing. - here too, we generally agree with the rapporteur's proposals to improve the european commission's document. this is the case with the proposal which insists on the need for the european commission to fully inform the european parliament of the measures envisaged, in accordance with the agreement between the european parliament and the commission on the rules for implementing council decision 1999/468/ec. i also agree that the member states and the commission should periodically carry out an evaluation of this regulation. however, i do not think the proposal that the commission should draw up a set of indicators to determine the extent to which the member states should cooperate with the commission and the other member states is sufficiently clear, even though the court of auditors has criticised the lack of effective administrative cooperation in the fight against vat evasion. the possible exchange of good practice and the development of analyses cannot justify greater taxation in areas which call into question the principle of subsidiarity. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - we know how the banking and other financial companies are being supported under the pretext of avoiding a crisis in the financial sector and any repercussions. but the crisis of capitalism is now much wider and has already had serious repercussions, particularly in the economic area where micro, small and mediumsized enterprises predominate. so while it is clear that only a break with the current liberal policies will make it possible to find lasting alternative solutions, we support specific measures that can alleviate the serious situation of thousands of micro, small and mediumsized enterprises. but we insist that creating an environment favourable to micro, small and mediumsized enterprises requires first and foremost an increase in the purchasing power of the population, an increase in workers' wages and an improvement in pensions and pensions. so by voting for this resolution we only wish to underline the wish that this is not just another mirage for the propaganda that is the norm at this time. it is necessary that this support reaches micro and smes in an effective way and does not get in the way of bureaucracy.
in writing. - in the current context of the us/nato/eu arms race and militarization of international relations, any initiative which even if limited and insufficient contributes to arms export control will be a step in the right direction. however, what is characteristic of the eu is its choice to "give a new impetus to the 'europe of defence' (euphemism for interference and aggression), stating, 'once again its objective is to extend the strategic partnership between the eu and nato and to adapt it to current needs in a spirit of complementarity and mutual reinforcement'. it is enough to take account of the proposal for conclusions of the european council of 11 and 12 december on 'strengthening european security and defence policy (esdp) ' which prepares the position of the major eu powers for the nato summit in april next year , which envisages a qualitative leap forward in the so-called 'european security strategy' (from 2003) and the setting of new objectives to 'strengthen and optimise european capabilities over the next ten years' so that the eu 'is in a position to carry out, simultaneously, outside its territory, a whole range of civil and military operations of different sizes and corresponding to the most likely scenarios'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gurmai report on the situation of women in the balkans because it draws attention to the fact that, despite economic growth, women in this part of europe continue to face numerous forms of discrimination. i believe that the various recommendations in this report, if implemented, will be able to reverse the current situation, provide greater social protection and encourage greater participation by women in these countries. for example, measures to combat the scourge of domestic violence and the wage gap; positive discrimination measures such as the quota system; childcare facilities for children and the elderly to help eliminate restrictions on access to the labour market for these women, etc. i would also like to stress the importance the report attaches to investment in education as a way of drastically reducing stereotypes and helping to prepare future generations for a more just and equitable society.
in writing. − while there are aspects of general political opinion about the region with which we do not entirely agree, we agree on the importance of the role of women and the need to guarantee equal rights and equal opportunities for participation in the labour market, which is an indispensable condition for their economic independence, for the economic growth of countries and for the fight against poverty, to which women are more vulnerable than men. as the report notes, women have been disproportionately affected by cuts in social services and public spending, including health care and child and family care, noting that previously granted non-wage services and perks allowed women to participate in paid employment and consequently reconcile work and family life. but special measures are now needed to prevent the feminization of the lowest-paid sectors, including rural areas, the existence of the 'gender pay gap' and the need to create good quality, affordable and accessible reception facilities for children and the elderly, and the importance of the physical and psychological rehabilitation of women victims of war is emphasised.
in writing. the development of a community plan for the management of sea-crow stocks is the most feasible solution to mitigate the harmful impact of these animals on fisheries resources in some regions of the eu. sea crows, with a daily food intake of between 400 and 600 g of fish, consume more than 300 000 tonnes of fish taken from european waters every year, which is more fish than the fish produced in aquaculture by france, spain, italy, germany, hungary and the czech republic combined. although primary competence in this area lies at the level of member states and their hierarchical structures, strictly local and/or national measures are not proven to be able to reduce the harmful effect of sea crows on european fisheries and fisheries resources in a sustainable manner. a common, legally binding approach, accepted and applied at european level, therefore appears to be the ideal solution to guarantee the primary objectives of this directive, namely 'the favourable conservation status' of the bird species in question, as well as the conservation of a diverse group of fish species. the protection of the legitimate interests of fishermen and fish farmers in the economic exploitation of fishery resources is another factor of no less importance which could be safeguarded by such an approach. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i should like to take this opportunity of speaking at the beginning of the european parliament's plenary session to express our deepest solidarity with the railway workers who have been the victims of the repression by the management board of caminhos de ferro portugueses cp. in an unacceptable manner, nine railway workers were the subject of disciplinary proceedings for dismissal initiated by the cp management board, as were three other workers at refer, for participating in a strike pick-up in compliance with and ensuring compliance with the law. we express our indignation at this attitude and demand the immediate closure of these proceedings and respect for democratic legality, workers' rights and freedom of association.
the problem of unemployment, the scourge of precarious and low-paid work and the drama of late wages is growing in the north of portugal and is threatening more and more workers. two examples i bring to you: the media reported that today 51 portuguese construction workers from the marco de canavezes area went to protest at a company in galicia, spain, which has not paid them two months' wages and holiday allowance, and these workers continue to receive no unemployment allowance either. meanwhile, quimonda, a semiconductor company in vila do conde, portugal, is increasingly concerned about the future of its 2,000 employees, as its german parent company is announcing job cuts, although it is not known which companies are affected. it is therefore imperative that these problems be tackled urgently and that the community measures recently adopted do not ignore the plight of workers and their families.
i think that an agreement with the council on this directive could have been discussed before the second reading by parliament. the fact is that, despite the efforts of the french presidency, the council has not given it any mandate to negotiate with parliament. i want to make it clear that i am prepared to review the positions adopted at first reading, but i can only do so in a responsible way within a framework of compromise, which presupposes a dialogue between the two institutions. my aim remains to reach an agreement with the council. it was not possible before the first reading, but i am confident that it can be done in the spirit of conciliation. the two most politically sensitive issues in this directive are the so-called 'guarding time' and the 'opt-out clause'. as regards the 'guarding time', i do not see any reason why the court's decisions should not be complied with. there is a solution to this problem - which i am sure will be adopted in conciliation - which solves the problems of several member states and which is accepted by the whole european medical community, which is unanimously represented today in the demonstration in front of parliament by 400 doctors representing more than 2 million doctors from all over europe. as for the opt-out, for me and in my opinion, it is an issue that has nothing to do with flexibility in the labour market. flexibility, in my view, is fully discussed through annualization of the reference period. the key point here is whether or not we want european workers to be able to work more than 48 hours a week on average per year, that is, monday to saturday, 8 hours a day, and whether this is consistent with the statements we all make here, for example, about reconciling family and working life. i would remind everyone that the legal basis of this directive is the safety and health of workers and i cannot help but thank the many colleagues in the epp for all the support they have given me in this process.
the central objective of this council proposal is to devalue work, increase exploitation and make it possible to increase profits for employers, to increase profits for economic and financial groups by means of an average weekly working time of 60 or 65 hours and to reduce wages by means of the concept of idle working time. it is one of the most visible aspects of capitalist exploitation and it calls into question everything that has been said about work-life balance. the proposal is a 100-year retreat in hard-fought rights for workers, who are people and not machines. we therefore call for the rejection of this shameful position of the european council and we call on the members to vote in favour of the workers' protest in order to avoid further serious social tensions, further setbacks and a return to a kind of slavery in the 21st century. in a time of crisis and unemployment, what is needed is a gradual reduction in working hours without loss of pay, with a view to creating more jobs with rights, and respect for the dignity of those who work.
i regret that this time is being wasted in moving towards a more profound and significant improvement of this directive on the european works council, as was already envisaged in 2001 when the menrad report was adopted, in which i myself participated. we therefore insist on the submission and vote on certain amendments aimed at strengthening the right of workers' representatives to be informed and consulted in all cases, including also the right of veto, especially in the case of restructuring and attempts to relocate companies, particularly transnational ones, where workers' rights are not respected. it is good that these proposals can be adopted here so that there is in fact a strengthening of the european works council directive.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with particular pleasure that i stand before you today to present the work we have done together in this own-initiative report. for me and for all those who have collaborated in the development of this process, it is clear that we have done our job. i would like to thank all of them, in particular my fellow shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups who have worked hard to reach commitments for the future, the regional development staff who are always available, in particular miguel tell cremades and elisa daffarra, the pse staff, lila and petrus, and the european commission, which, always represented by the various directorates-general that such a comprehensive report covers, has closely and continuously followed the work and worked hard to ensure that it came to fruition. i would like to thank my office, and in particular joana benzinho, and all of you for the most harmonious and structured development of coastal regions and tourism in the european union. the 27 member states of the european union have a combined coastline of over 89 000 km. it has a variety of very particular characteristics which, depending on their location, are distinguished either by their cosmopolitanism, if we are talking about cities such as lisbon, copenhagen or stockholm, or by the difficulties of being peripheral or ultra-peripheral regions, with problems of connections to the large cities or with accelerated desertification contexts, such as the algarve, liguria, the canary islands or madeira. in one way or another, everyone is identified with the concept of coast and coastal zone and experiences the advantages and disadvantages associated with them on a daily basis. according to available data, by 2010, about 75% of humanity will live in coastal areas. based on the circuits and the relationships between them, we define these zones as the 50 kilometers in a straight line that go from the coastline to the inland zones. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals. this is where all these people come together in search of economic opportunities and synergies, and in many cases with the sole expectation that these will revolve around tourism. the need for a pragmatic and integrated view of the impact of tourism on coastal areas was therefore clearly in our minds and led us to take action. in the context of the current financial crisis, where the impact on the real economy is becoming increasingly insurmountable, tourism appears as a sector with enormous potential to be directly or indirectly affected in a brutal way. the regions whose development is overwhelmingly or totally dependent on tourism see their activity threatened and look to the future with suspicion, especially since tourism is not currently a competence of the european union. however, concerted action can and must be taken and the spirit of the lisbon treaty reflects this same tendency. however, to wait until the treaty enters into force to start acting is to wait for the stage when we will be crying over spilled milk. the present tourist activity and the fragile reality of the regions which depend on it require us to take urgent and effective action. the fact that these are areas structurally dependent on tourism as a source of employment, although often seasonal employment, and labour-intensive activity cannot be ignored in a context of pressure on urban areas and unemployment. that is why this report which we are presenting to you here and now, which was already of the greatest timeliness and urgency when the committee on regional development decided to promote it, now assumes that it must be seen as a priority for the european commission and the european council. the commission's response to the crisis in the steel sector is to give priority to the numerous initiatives which it incorporates, as well as those for which it expressly supports and which have already been communicated by other institutions, along with the measures taken in the commission's emergency plan, of which i would stress the review of the globalisation adjustment fund, in which the issues associated with this sector and the shock to which it is currently subject must obviously be covered. it is crucial to ensure the development of new segments of the economy of these coastal zones, ensuring their social and environmental sustainability and promoting the real integration of the different sectoral policies, such as the maritime sector, transport, energy, the cohesion instruments already in place, the new quality product policy that the cap review incorporates with the announcement of the health check report and the new tourism products in these coastal zones, taking into account their crucial contribution to the european economy. the implementation of an appropriate and holistic vision for this policy should be a reality in the european union in the near future. finally, mr president, only by clearly articulating these instruments and by taking swift and effective action involving all the partners involved in the field can we ensure that we have a sustainable and future-oriented coastal tourism sector in the european union.
in writing. - the cancellation of eur 4.5 billion for the structural and cohesion funds in the community budget for 2008 justifies our vote against. the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework is not complied with from the outset, in particular as regards the use of financial resources for cohesion policy. the 'justifications' - such as the delay in adopting and implementing the programmes - do not explain why, in two consecutive years, these amounts are either not entered in the community budget or are subsequently cancelled. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have adopted the euro by a factor of two. and this in a year of crisis. if there are difficulties in implementing each member state's operational programmes, these should be overcome (including by increasing the community co-financing rates). what is unacceptable is that 'difficulties' are used to cancel amounts which should be used to support productive sectors and promote employment with rights in the 'cohesion' countries, which include portugal. on the other hand, funds are being accumulated which are in danger of not being used because of the application of the n+2 and n+3 rules and the difficulties of these being partly co-financed by the national budgets of these countries.
in writing. − tourism is an essential factor for the socioeconomic development of the eu's coastal regions. i therefore support the creation of specific instruments that can lead to a more integrated and sustainable development strategy, reducing the seasonal nature of tourism in these regions, as this is the only way to encourage economic competitiveness, respond to social needs (creation of more stable jobs and improvement of the quality of life), while paying particular attention to the preservation of natural and cultural resources and the promotion of more responsible tourism models. although tourism is not a community competence, it is important to avoid fragmented, sectoral and sometimes inconsistent action at european level. this should ensure a general and integrated approach in the context of the various related policies (e.g. cohesion, environment, maritime, social, etc.). i have no doubt that the structural funds make a great contribution to the development of coastal regions. it is a pity, however, that the real impact of these investments is not known because of the lack of information. it is also regrettable that the operational programmes for 2007-13 contain almost no specific reference to the case of coastal areas. i support the rapporteur's intention to undertake a review to change this situation.
in writing. − issues related to the sustainable development of coastal areas are of paramount importance for eu countries which, like portugal, have regions heavily dependent on some maritime activities. among these activities, coastal tourism is a key pillar in pursuing the current objectives of the european strategy to bring europe closer to the sea. in this sense, the eu should include coastal tourism in the list of its political priorities. despite their undoubted wealth, coastal regions in europe, and in particular in portugal, suffer from serious constraints dictated by a poor approach, planning and intervention by decision-making. the eu should develop a policy that specifically addresses tourism-related issues by integrating them into broader frameworks, including: european maritime policy, marine environment directive, strategy related to integrated coastal zone management, trans-european transport network and natura 2000 environmental policy, among others. this report incorporates these and other proposals which i consider to be fundamental to the development of tourism in the eu's coastal areas and therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - although we clearly disagree with some aspects of the report, we value the overall content of the report, including the inclusion of many of the proposals we have put forward and advocated, such as: 'stresses the need to safeguard the rights of workers in the sector by promoting quality jobs and their qualification, which implies, inter alia, adequate vocational training, the promotion of stable contractual ties and a level of fair and dignified remuneration, and the improvement of working conditions.' however, we regret that other proposals have been rejected which: - considered that 'the tourism sector should be a factor contributing to territorial cohesion, economic development and employment at regional level, and stressed the need for a transversal approach to the sector in community policies and funds, in particular by creating a specific community programme, complementing the action of the member states, to promote the sector and the synergies between the various economic and social actors involved'; - and recalling that 'coastal regions characterised by tourist activity were unfairly penalized by the so-called 'statistical effect' in the current financial framework 2007-2013, and therefore calls for the adoption of compensatory measures at community level targeted at these regions', such as the algarve.
in writing. - this report on the regional development aspects of the impact of tourism in coastal areas underlines that tourism is an essential factor for the socioeconomic development of these regions of the european union. this is a very important issue, given that the european union has more than 89000 km of coastline in its member states and that, on the other hand, islands, island member states and the outermost regions are highly dependent on the tourism sector. it is therefore essential that coastal member states devise specific strategies and integrated plans at national and regional level to mitigate the seasonal nature of tourism in coastal regions and to ensure more stable employment and a better quality of life for local communities. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for an integrated approach to coastal tourism in the context of the european union's maritime cohesion, fisheries, environmental, transport, energy, social and health policies, in order to create synergies and avoid contradictory interventions.
in writing. - if we consider the importance for europe of the idea of a global strategy that exploits the potential of the sea, and if we consider the economic power that tourism has and can have for european economies, and if, to these considerations, we add the need to respond not only to the concern raised by the relocation of various economic activities, but also to the challenges posed by the current economic crisis, it is easy to understand the importance of a specific strategy for tourism in coastal areas, within the framework of the global strategies for tourism and the sea. in view of these considerations, both of which are reflected in two reports to which i was a party (rapporteur on the report on the future of sustainable tourism, shadow rapporteur on the report on the european maritime strategy), this report is welcome. however, we must recognize that it is not enough to have a strategy for tourism in coastal areas that brings together the greatest common denominator of the two global strategies mentioned. more generally, it is necessary to stimulate an economic environment that is conducive to entrepreneurship, that takes advantage of this enormous potential - of these enormous potentials - by exploiting it today and doing so in a way that makes this exploitation lasting and therefore sustainable and responsible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the christa prets report on media literacy in a digital world because i felt it was urgent to tackle this problem. in this age of digital information, info-exclusion can become a new form of discrimination and inequality. i agree with the objectives set out in the report, in particular the promotion of the democratisation of broadband internet access, the fight to reduce the disparities in this area between the various member states, and the need to invest in education and training in this area. i also think that the trend towards concentration of companies in this sector must be monitored with some caution in order to avoid oligopolistic situations, which could compromise transparency and the pluralism of information.
in writing. - i support this proposal which aims to improve the functioning of the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters and i am pleased that an agreement at first reading has been reached. i have always encouraged the establishment of closer links between magistrates and the institutional mechanisms of european judicial cooperation in order to facilitate the monitoring by those professionals of the various stages of the process of building a judicial europe, thus contributing to the consolidation of the area of freedom, security and justice and to the creation of a european judicial culture. this network is made up of contact points (judges) who cooperate with each other in order to deal with any difficulties that may arise in the context of judicial cooperation between member states, covering all areas, i.e. civil law matters and commercial law matters. i believe that it should be opened up to allow the participation of the professional orders, while efforts should be made to strengthen information to the general public. these improvements will bring clear benefits for the mutual recognition of judgments, which is, in fact, the cornerstone of judicial cooperation.
in writing. the clear lack of political will on the part of the majority of the european parliament to deepen the current directive and improve the rights and role of the european works council was once again evident in the vote in plenary. all the proposals of our group have been rejected, including the proposal for a thorough and complete revision of this directive to be initiated no later than five years after the date of entry into force of the minor amendments now introduced. they only accepted that the commission should submit a report on the application of the provisions of this directive. and then you'll see. we know that the strengthening of workers' rights will depend on the development of the class struggle. unlike at other times, when the european parliament has already accepted in non-binding deliberations the principle of the right of veto of workers' representatives, as in my report on the role of women in industry, it has now refused to include it in the directive on the european works council, which is regrettable. hence our final abstention vote.
in writing. − 'simplifying the intra-community transfer of defence-related products' is not a neutral process. the strengthening of the internal market rules in an area which was hitherto the exclusive competence of the member states is also another step in the direction of federalism, strengthening the power of the great powers to the detriment of national sovereignty. in the context of a serious international economic crisis, the development of the military-industrial complex in the eu opens up new prospects for profits for the major economic groups and the strengthening of the eu's military intervention capacity in the framework of the cfsp. the aim is to secure dominance over markets, finite energy resources and other natural resources which are crucial to the capitalist mode of production, in a context of increased international competitiveness. the way forward should be quite different, namely in the effort to reduce nuclear and conventional arsenals worldwide, in the peaceful resolution of conflicts, in respect for international law and the sovereignty of countries. the path of humanity must be that of disarmament and not that of relaunching the arms race which this proposal for a directive seeks to promote. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the matthias groote report on the typeapproval of motor vehicles and engines, as i believe that the development of common rules limiting the emission of air pollutants from motor vehicles will make a significant contribution to the protection of the environment and also to the proper functioning of the single market in the european union. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal, which calls for more ambitious limit values for particulate emissions (beyond those proposed by the european commission) to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, particularly with regard to climate change mitigation.
in writing. - i am in favour of harmonising the rules for the construction of heavy motor vehicles with regard to emissions of air pollutants, because i believe that this is the best way to avoid divergent requirements being applied by the member states and to ensure the protection of the environment. the general community system of motor vehicle typeapproval exists to ensure the functioning of the internal market, which, we must never forget, is an area without internal frontiers, where there is free movement of goods, people, services and capital. there is a need to update the standards, to make them more stringent, so that all member states can ensure the production of less polluting heavy-duty vehicles and have access to the information on the repair and maintenance of those heavy-duty vehicles in a standardised format. the eu has shown a strong willingness to take the lead in tackling climate change. this report is nothing more than a new lever to supplement the fight against environmental deterioration. the new reduction of limit values for harmful emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter is the main aspect of this regulation and will certainly improve air quality in europe.
in writing. − member states have shown that it has proved difficult to apply this article effectively. the main difficulties are an administrative burden disproportionate to the amounts involved and a significant risk factor in the implementation of the programmes. it is in this context that i voted in favour of this proposal to amend and simplify this article, which deals with two points: the exclusion of operations co-financed by the esf from the provisions of article 55 and the fixing of a threshold - eur 1 million - below which projects co-financed by the erdf or the cohesion fund would be excluded from the same provisions, both as regards the calculation of eligible expenditure and monitoring. the other provisions of article 55 shall not be amended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs giusepe gargani on the conditions of employment of other servants of the european communities, as i believe that the proposal to create a new category of specific staff of the european parliament, covering parliamentary assistants working at one of the three places of work of the european parliament (brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg), will make it possible to clarify and improve the current situation of these assistants, while respecting the specific nature of the duties they perform. the new system for recruiting parliamentary assistants, which creates a single system where the employment relationship is now made by direct contract with the european parliament, is essential to ensure respect for the principles of equality, non-discrimination and transparency in recruitment, as well as legal security for these workers.
in writing. the decisions of the european council - apart from all the rhetoric and demagogy that always accompany them - lay bare the real objectives and policies of the eu. after having prevented the other peoples from expressing themselves in a referendum, they now impose a new referendum on the people who have rejected this draft treaty in a sovereign and democratic way. moreover, the irish people will be faced with a referendum on the same treaty, accompanied, for the time being, by a "political commitment" to be legally implemented when croatia joins in 2010 or 2011. the aim is to impose a qualitative leap forward on neoliberalism, federalism and militarism, in favour of the interests of big business and the great powers that this draft treaty represents. moreover, the same european council is moving towards a new stage of militarization of the eu and international relations, preparing the next nato summit (april 2009) and establishing the eu as its european pillar. as we have already stressed, such decisions highlight the undemocratic character of the eu, which is inseparable from its assertion as an imperialist bloc. the so-called 'european economic recovery plan' is the same policy, giving priority to the interests of the great powers and financial capital.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, despite the financial and economic crisis, the european union has not wavered in its commitments on climate, and the statements by the president-elect of the united states and the position taken in poznań by china, brazil, mexico, etc. prove that european environmental pioneering is beginning to bear fruit. this parliament has clearly added value to the commission's proposal and i thank the rapporteur, mrs doyle, for her openness to the suggestions of the econ committee. it has brought to this parliament common sense solutions to the problems of carbon leakage in industry, introduced quality criteria and a 50% limit on the use of offsetting and clean development mechanisms and sought to condition the freedom of states to use auction revenues by about 50%. there is still much to be done, i hope with the active participation of this parliament. in particular, we must set out in detail the criteria for classifying sectors liable to leak carbon, the consequences for the economy and for citizens of the increase in energy prices and, above all, we must use all the european diplomatic power to ensure that the environmental commitments of our main partners are serious, measurable and comparable to our own. sectoral agreements could be a key part of this process. for now, however, we are on the right track and i think we have done a good job.
on behalf of the pse group. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hassi, very warmly for her hard work and the determination with which she negotiated the compromise. i also thank the commission and the council for their efforts. a note on what the epp shadow rapporteur said: i admit he is uncomfortable in his own group but obviously the socialists cannot be the scapegoat. this was not, in fact, an easy process, but it was worth it, if there is an international agreement to the legal commitment of member states to reach 30% reduction in co2 emissions. parliament's proposals have also improved the original text. long-term targets have been included: 50% emission reduction by 2035 and 60-80% by 2050. the commission also noted the energy efficiency and quality of cdm projects and the intention to help third countries reduce emissions and adapt to climate change. a corrective action mechanism of 1.08 was also included to punish offenders more severely. it could be better, no doubt, but the worst of it would be no commitment. the energy-climate package is a dossier of the utmost importance for citizens, the environment and the economy. the agreement reached in the council is therefore to be welcomed. the european union has set a fantastic example, as senator john kerry acknowledged in pozsnan. with this agreement, the european union has sent a very positive signal to the other international partners, showing that it continues to lead the fight against climate change and that it expects the same effort from the other parties. i hope that the european parliament will approve this package tomorrow, as the socialists will do.
mr president, our colleague ari vatanen, who is a well-known champion of motor sport, often says that we all have to die someday, but he adds that this should not necessarily happen at the wheel of a car. since 2005, however, the number of road fatalities has not slowed as it should. the 2007 figures reflect this concern. it's these ups and downs that best demonstrate how much there is still to do. we are all aware that many of the offences committed in the territory of the member states, other than that of the driver's residence, are often followed by penalties which are not enforced. the draft directive we are discussing here sets out a well-designed electronic information exchange system which aims to facilitate the crossborder enforcement of road traffic fines, focusing on the four most serious offences in terms of human lives in europe. this system is self-justifying. it must, however, preserve the guarantees of citizens regarding the protection of their personal data. the european commission's assessment of the results of its implementation is therefore indispensable and should be carried out with the utmost rigor. there is also the problem of the different legal nature of the offences depending on the member state in which they are committed. in some cases, they are merely administrative offences, in others they are criminal in nature. in some cases, they are accompanied by ancillary sanctions, such as driving bans, while in others they are not. this is not the time to go into technical details, but it is the time to call for the best possible future implementation of the directive to be studied. the rapporteur, whom i congratulate, has already suggested ways of solving the problem, including the harmonization of fines and road traffic control equipment and practices. in our view, there are also doubts as to the effective right of appeal when the driver does not comply with the fine imposed. is that right duly guaranteed where the applicant has to resort to a court and to laws other than those of his state of residence? that is a question i leave to commissioner tajani. finally, it is important that citizens who drive are properly informed of their new duties and rights. only then will they see this initiative not so much as a repressive instrument but rather as a means of encouraging safer driving behaviour and more respect for the lives of others and their own lives.
as we stressed in october, the community budget for 2009 should be marked by the political measures and their budgetary consequences that would effectively respond to the deepening economic crisis. however, the proposed community budget for 2009, instead of directing and strengthening financial resources to promote economic and social cohesion and enhance the purchasing power of workers, reduces payments to an unprecedented level (less than eur 4 000 million compared to the one adopted for the 2008 budget), not even meeting the outlook in the financial framework 2007-2013, which is already more than insufficient, being in relative terms the lowest community budget since the accession of portugal to the eec. the proposed community budget for 2009 is a sham to support the so-called plan to revive the european economy and the so-called european solidarity. in fact, the motto is each for itself, that is, a policy which will further increase the asymmetries between the economically more developed countries and the so-called cohesion countries. what is urgent are budgetary measures to give effective support to small and family farming, fisheries, the textile and clothing industry, the shipbuilding industry, micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, in defence of the productive sectors of each member state, particularly the cohesion countries, of employment with rights and decent wages for workers.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mrs jutta haug, for her excellent work and the various colleagues for their contributions. i shall refer to the fisheries sector and its positive and negative aspects. the overall appropriations allocated are in line with the previous year, which is already a negative aspect, since the previous budgets already represented the minimum necessary to implement a common fisheries policy and a maritime policy with the necessary resources. the reduction in payment appropriations and the insufficient response to the needs and specificities of the outermost regions are also negative. the increase in external economic pressure from the current financial crisis and substantial fluctuations in fuel prices exacerbates already existing pressures from fleet undercapacity and resource base erosion. while the commission proposes a restructuring of the fisheries sector in line with the current macroeconomic situation, concrete measures are needed to help ensure the survival of the european fishing fleet and the livelihood of those who care so much that we can have access to one of the most basic products. i welcome the approval, as a preparatory action, of the initiative i presented for the creation of the eur 4 million fisheries price observatory and the increases in support for the management of fishery resources, in voluntary contributions to international projects, in the strengthening of dialogue in the vitally important fisheries sector, as we saw in a visit by the fisheries committee to madeira, the portuguese outermost region, in the pilot project for networking and exchange of best practices, at the conclusion of the 6th framework programme. the commission is also pleased to maintain appropriations for cooperation in the field of the development of the bio-economy, the community fisheries agency and the preparatory action for the european maritime policy. finally, i would like to thank the commission for creating a budget line, which has not yet been allocated to an ad hoc financial instrument, with the aim of adapting the fishing fleet to the economic consequences of fuel consumption, and this is one reason why ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. − the use of renewable energy in transport is one of the most effective instruments for the eu to reduce its dependence on oil. we also know that controlling energy consumption in europe and the use of energy from renewable sources are important parts of the package of measures needed to combat climate change. i think the most important thing in this report is to maintain the binding final target of 20% renewable energy by 2020, including the minimum target of 10% renewable in transport. for portugal, the inclusion of wave energy in the renewable energy definition constitutes an opportunity to use our energy potential to achieve the objectives. the fact that the report includes an incentive for second generation biofuels not only gives credibility to the document, but also ensures the sustainability of the use of renewables for the transport sector. in order to achieve an energy model that supports renewable energies, i consider it essential that the document encourages mechanisms for strategic cooperation between member states. this report is fundamental in itself and as part of an agreement (climate-energy package). while ensuring the preservation of environmental integrity, the agreement will make it possible to achieve the 20/20/20 targets by 2020. the targets set for the member states are ambitious but achievable.
in writing. - this is a theme of the so-called 'climate-energy package'. it deals with the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, covering the following sectors: electricity, heating and cooling and transport. the aim is for the eu to increase the share of renewable energy in energy consumption to 20% by 2020, setting national overall targets for each member state and also setting a target of 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by that date. according to information provided, for portugal, the target for the share of energy from renewable sources in final energy consumption in 2020 is set at 31%, taking into account the starting point (in 2005 the share in portugal was already 20,5%) and the national potential in renewable energy. the 10% target for renewable energy in transport is, by contrast, set at the same level for all member states. the fact is that, although we voted in favour of it in the end, we have serious doubts about its implementation, since it is misleading to assume that we know the extent of the renewable resources that can be exploited or that we have the technology to do so. it would be preferable to set public and private investment amounts and to promote a general survey and mapping plan for the classification and quantification of renewable energy resources.
in writing. − while the concept and system of greenhouse gas emission allowances is justified by the need to prevent chemical changes in the atmosphere with potential climate impact (precautionary principle) and the scarcity of fossil fuel sources and lack of rationality in their consumption, there are aspects to be cautious about. the issue of emission allowances and the subsequent trading of emission allowances is questionable and should be opposed because its impact on the real economy is largely uncertain, because there is still a wide margin of doubt about diversified technical solutions, and because the fate of these technical solutions is also dependent on the evolution of the financial situation in the various sectors involved (air transport, automotive, thermoelectricity production, cement plants, heavy chemicals, petrochemicals, and increasingly other energy-intensive sectors). on the other hand, the expected beneficiaries will be a few high-tech industrial sectors and a few (few) financial operators. the irreversible reduction of fossil fuel consumption is necessitated by constraints on the availability of sources and the allocation to different sectors must be achieved more out of social urgency and economic rationality than out of financial influence and profit. hence our final vote of abstention.
in writing. − the report's main thrust is to strengthen, expand and improve beyond 2012 the functioning of the ets, one of the main instruments for achieving the eu's goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i agree with this report, mainly because auctions are key to achieving an efficient allocation and decisive for the environmental effectiveness of the eu ets; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new treaty on european union. the highlight of the agreement was the increase in free licences, which is not very positive from my point of view. however, it is important to bear in mind that emissions will be reduced each year.
in writing. - we agree on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and on the establishment of a system to do so. but we have the greatest doubts about the proposed system, which, while claiming to be based on the 'principle of solidarity between member states and the need for sustainable economic growth', then insists that it is only the countries that pay the bill, through national budgets - and not the community budget - for the unequal conditions of development in which they find themselves. by allowing the transfer of emissions between member states, either through 'auctioning' or through 'market intermediaries', mechanisms are being put in place which will accentuate the differences in economic power between member states to the benefit of the great powers. on the other hand, they outsource a significant part of their efforts to third countries, increasing international pressure on the least developed countries to surrender part of their sovereignty in exchange for (pseudo) aid, opening their economies to investment by community firms. all these measures are aimed at pressing for an international agreement which, in the context of a serious economic crisis, will emphasize the capitalist vision of the environmental front.
in writing. − with a view to eu action on climate change in a future international agreement to replace the kyoto protocol, it is essential that the eu sends a clear signal to the world and commits to effectively reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. the commission's proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by 2020 compared to 2005 levels for non-ets sectors is therefore of paramount importance. the targets set for each member state, with gdp per capita as the main criterion, seem fair to me. the compromise reached between the european parliament and the council, although not the ideal compromise (for example, by allowing excessive use of flexibility mechanisms), seems to me to be overall balanced and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the so-called 'climate-energy package' also includes a proposal for a directive on carbon capture and storage. the purpose of geological storage is to provide an alternative to the release of co2 into the atmosphere by permanently containing it underground. the commission proposes that all new power stations should have the capacity to capture co2 from the moment they are built. this technology, although controversial, can help achieve negative emissions by complementing renewable energy. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. although we have doubts about some amendments, which are technically controversial, we voted in favour of the european parliament's position. but we consider the position to be too restrictive, particularly as regards the autonomy of the states, in a field where scientific and technical knowledge is still very limited. we regret that the enormous r & d & d effort which still needs to be done is not given the necessary prominence, and that the proposed timetables will be excessively ambitious unless very generous public resources are voted in a few years.
in writing. − in mitigating climate change in the eu, ccs technology holds great promise, but should not be a reason for slackening and reducing efforts to make european electricity production cleaner. the davies report is very balanced and the compromise reached between the european parliament and the council fully meets the needs of the eu. the implementation of the 12 demonstration projects is of particular importance, the results of which will guide the eu in the medium term towards the most cost-effective and environmentally efficient introduction of this technology. finally, and in view of the many remaining doubts, in particular the uncertainty as to the existence of suitable storage sites in all member states, i consider it very positive that the issue of co2 exports to third countries can be reviewed (article 35a (2)) and that economic operators are not obliged to apply ccs technology (article 32).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the dorette corbey report on the control and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from road transport and inland waterway transport, as i consider that improving air quality and reducing greenhouse gas emissions are two crucial aspects of tackling climate change and minimising health risks. i think that the adoption of this directive is very important, as it will contribute to the reduction of co2 in the transport sector, in particular by stimulating the development of clean technologies and by setting concrete requirements for carbon emissions from the production process.
in writing. − this report from the so-called 'climate-energy package' aims to improve air quality and contribute to the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fuels used in the transport sector. the directive has so far only regulated the quality of fuels. the proposed amendment also provides for mandatory reductions in greenhouse gases from fuels. in general, the rapporteur has done a good job with amendments which we consider to be positive, with a sound general sense and properly justified, aiming at maximum efficiency, equal conditions of competition, with ambitious but reasonable objectives. it is also important that the directive is technologically neutral, since it should not involve any additional incentives in favour of a particular fuel or technology. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. - this report is very important because in the same document it is intended to improve air quality by reducing air pollution, in particular emissions of highly toxic and polluting substances, and secondly to contribute to the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fuels used in the transport sector. this is the first time that a reduction target is applied to a specific product (fuel) based on a life cycle analysis (extraction, production, transport, distribution and end use), which underlines the importance of this directive. i would like to endorse the agreement reached between parliament and the council and stress the fact that sustainability is guaranteed in the production and use of biofuels, which is fundamental to the viability of the directive. the fuel quality directive will become a key instrument in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the guido sacconi report on emission standards for new passenger cars. given that road transport accounts for 12% of total carbon dioxide emissions in the european union, i believe that this regulation, while not part of the 'energy-climate package', is key to the eu meeting its 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2020. i congratulate the rapporteur on the decisive role he has played in the negotiations with the council and the european commission, which have resulted in a strong and balanced commitment to the benefit of the car industry, the consumer and, above all, the protection of the environment. it is therefore an ambitious but flexible model, since it seeks to meet the objectives of reducing pollutant emissions while allowing for gradual adaptation by companies in the automotive sector.
in writing. − road transport is the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu and, above all, a sector where emissions continue to rise. the considerable progress made in automobile technology has not been sufficient to counteract the effects of increased transport demand and vehicle size. the proposal for a regulation is in line with the spirit and objectives of the eu, namely to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. the fact that the proposal provides for a division of labour, since each manufacturer will be assigned a precise objective to be met, is, in my view, exemplary. the penalties for manufacturers who do not meet their targets are also, in my view, fundamental. the agreement reached is, from the community's point of view, a positive one. in order to achieve the objectives which the european union has set itself in combating climate change, this regulation will certainly make a contribution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the so-called 'energy-climate package' which includes the doyle, hassi, turmes and davies reports, because i consider that the agreement concluded between the european parliament, the council and the european commission is a balanced agreement which reconciles the protection of the environment with the legitimate interests of industry. it was important to reach an agreement at first reading, in time for the european union to present a credible proposal at the copenhagen conference in 2009 with a view to reaching an international agreement, and to continue to lead the fight against climate change.
in writing. − the reports that address the different issues of the 'climate package' provide a global approach. considering that the global increase in energy consumption will continue and that the most co2-emitting energies are the most expensive, it is easy to understand that the adoption of lower co2-emitting energies is both an environmental and an economic necessity. for this reason, it is a priority to invest in technologies that reduce energy consumption and in technological solutions that reduce emissions that will always exist. the adaptation of industries producing goods that emit more co2 and which can and should be encouraged, rather than penalized, to produce more technologically advanced goods is needed, including through public procurement rules. similarly, industries that emit a lot of co2 during their production activity need to benefit from support for research and innovation in order to be more competitive, and not from rules that penalize the production process making it unviable in europe. finally, it is noted that the need to reduce energy dependence by diversifying sources and suppliers is essential and should be exploited to stimulate energy with lower co2 emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of rejecting the council's position on the grounds that it does not respect the legitimate rights of workers. the european parliament's position was clear and explicit in rejecting the possibility of 65 hours a week.
in writing. - the defeat of the european council in the european parliament today is an important victory for the workers' struggle, since it has not succeeded in getting its inadmissible proposals to amend the working time directive, which call into question the gains of more than a hundred years of hard labour struggles, to pass. the cases in which they sought to extend the average working day to 60 and 65 hours a week, the creation of the concept of 'inactive working time', which would not be considered as working time, and the attack on the trade union movement are noteworthy. all of this was rejected. this is also a defeat for the ps/socrates government, which had abstained on the council's position. after today's vote in the european parliament, the council's proposal cannot enter into force. but he can open new negotiations with the ep. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so despite the important victory achieved, the war against the council proposal and some of the reformist positions that have shown themselves to be willing to accept something in future negotiations is not over. we shall remain firm in our rejection of the proposal and call for vigilance on the part of the workers and their trade union organizations.
in writing. - balancing the right to work and rest with the needs of competitiveness and even economic viability puts us in front of the obligation to choose what we prefer. for our part, priority is given to the maintenance and promotion of employment. jobs depend on the viability of companies. for this reason, there must be sensitivity and understanding of the need to adapt labour rules to economic reality. but reality is not a sufficient criterion. over time, we have sought and claimed the success of the capitalist model, which has managed to produce more, better and offer better living conditions. those purposes stand. for this reason, just as we favour a compromise to defend the economy, we can never accept that this compromise be obtained at the expense of the essential progress achieved. there is one point, however, which is important to stress. looking at the debate in the council, it is not unremarkable that the countries which expressed the most reservations about the solution found are some of those with the worst economic performance. we have little use for rules to protect workers if there is less and less work and if we are thereby encouraging emigration to the countries of the 'opting out', whether european or non-european.
in writing. − a very ambitious target was set in 2001 to halve the number of road deaths by 2010. although the start was good, progress was slowing down and was finally nil last year (with some 43 000 fatalities still recorded on the roads of the 27 member states). it is therefore urgent to encourage the pursuit of this objective and to create a new approach to european road safety policy. the proposal we are considering is limited to the four offences which cause the highest number of accidents and deaths on the road (75%) and which are common to all member states: speeding, drunk driving, not wearing a seatbelt and disregarding a traffic light. so far, there has been a general feeling of impunity, since in the vast majority of cases any sanctions have had no effect. in a europe without internal frontiers, this is unacceptable, because we cannot encourage unequal treatment between citizens who are residents and those who are not. the law should be applied equally to all citizens! at the same time, it is essential to increase road safety in order to reduce the number of deaths on european roads.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to facilitate the enforcement of penalties against offenders for speeding, drunk driving, failure to wear a seatbelt or disregarding a red light (the four most serious offences in terms of loss of life at eu level) in a member state in which they are not resident. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised. certainly measures should be implemented to combat 'impunity' for offences committed in the territory of a country other than the country of residence of the driver. however, we believe that these objectives will not necessarily be achieved by excessive harmonization and increased safety measures at european union level (installation of monitoring and surveillance equipment on motorways, secondary roads and urban roads, creation of community electronic data transfer networks where the guarantee of adequate protection of personal data is doubtful), since it is through prevention (based on the concrete - and differentiated - reality in each country) that road safety will be promoted and the number of accidents reduced. that is why we abstained.
madam president, the sakharov prize awarded by this parliament to hu jia, on behalf of all defenders of the people in china and tibet, puts human rights at the centre of eu-china relations, regardless of the wish of rulers in europe or beijing. as other colleagues have said, the eu cannot promote the rule of law and human rights worldwide if it is not consistent in upholding them in europe and in europe’s external relations. regrettably, the 2008 annual report on human rights demonstrates that european governments and institutions persist in hiding the truth about european connivance with the abhorrent practices of the bush administration in subtracting from justice and in subcontracting torture for thousands of men, and even children, detained for years in guantánamo and in secret prisons. shamefully, reference to this in the chapter about eu troika and us consultations in human rights is limited to eu concern about ‘certain practices and policies of the us in the framework of the fight against terrorism’. this speaks volumes about double standards, hypocrisy and cover-up. until europeans assume their responsibilities and cooperate with president-elect obama to expose the truth, close guantánamo and the secret prisons, and compensate victims, europe will not regain moral authority, political credibility or efficiency in promoting human rights.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, europe is used to looking at human rights in all four corners of the world - and it is right - and that is why we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the sakharov prize today. it does well, but it is not enough, and this is the main merit of the catania report, it is that it looks at the state of the implementation of fundamental rights in our own country. it is a political programme for the commission and the council, for today and for the years to come, because the respect of fundamental rights is the basis of the authority with which we speak about them. i'll give you an example of a concrete issue that's important. it is unacceptable that several governments are currently refusing to take in guantanamo detainees without a proven fault. my government, on the contrary, has decided to take them in, and i welcome that, but it has said that it would do so to help the american administration, and that is the problem with this argument. it's also to help washington that several governments have accepted the illegal flights. we should accept prisoners without guilt if and when they request it, not to help a state solve the problem it created.
the tampere and hague programmes, which we are discussing today with the question from mr deprez, are aimed at implementing an area of freedom, security and justice by strengthening measures to guarantee freedom, security and justice, which are essential to the process of european integration, through the indispensable cooperation between the member states and between them and the union's bodies. but our union will only truly exist when, alongside the market and economic cooperation, a common area of freedom, security and justice is achieved and when european citizens feel equally free, with their fundamental rights guaranteed, and when justice is equal for all. the development of cooperation in this area is therefore very important. but the treaty of lisbon will be decisive, since its rules in this area give autonomy and powers to the european parliament and the national parliaments.
the new multiannual programme for the area of freedom, security and justice is due to be adopted in 2009. the balance sheet of the last ten years is positive, but we must avoid the recurring temptation to give priority to the security aspect to the detriment of freedom and justice. for example, in the area of judicial cooperation, the application of the principle of mutual recognition brings enormous benefits to all those who move in this area, but it should have a corresponding effect in the adequate protection of the procedural rights and guarantees of individuals throughout the union, which has not yet happened. several information systems have been set up to enhance security, but the framework decision on third pillar data protection has still not been adopted, as mrs roure knows very well. the promotion and effective protection of fundamental rights is the basis of our democracy and must be an ever-present objective in all european policies. fundamental rights are interdependent and constitute an indivisible whole and it is in this spirit that they are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. that is why the amendment of the treaty of lisbon is essential if our charter is to have binding legal force. the catania report identifies a number of priorities, ranging from social rights to data protection and the protection of minority rights, among others. but at a time when we are living through a general economic crisis, i think it is important to pay particular attention to cases of extreme poverty and social exclusion which are in themselves a violation of fundamental rights. i therefore consider it essential that both the social dimension and the protection of fundamental rights be integrated into all union policies, while at the same time we must ensure systematic and rigorous monitoring of the compatibility of legislative proposals with respect for these rights.
i really appreciate your opinions. i'd like to hear your opinion on the following: the economic and monetary organization of the union will, in my view, only be complete with the common area of freedom, security and justice, that is, we need common laws that are the same for everyone and that the courts apply the laws in the same way in the union area. we are far from having a common area of freedom, security and, above all, justice. what i ask is this: if, for some reason, which we would not like to have, the treaty of lisbon does not enter into force, do you think that there is a danger to the process of european construction, and in particular to economic and monetary union?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, quality assurance in vocational education and training is crucial not only to ensure the continuing education of every european worker but also to facilitate mobility throughout the union. an important aspect of this process is the qualification of vocational education and training itself, and in this respect it is relevant to intensify the exchange of best practice at european, national, regional and local levels. mr president, the reference framework established, respecting subsidiarity, sets out common principles, quality criteria and indicators useful for evaluating and improving supply, and these indicators can function not as a monitoring instrument but rather as a toolbox that helps to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy in the field of education and training. commissioner figel, after congratulating jan andersson on the excellent report he has presented, would like to refer to some points in the thomas mann report, which i also congratulate, and stress the importance of linking this certification process with the credit transfer system in higher education. this will ensure complementarity between certification processes and improve the conditions for the professional mobility of young people and european workers. it is also in the interest of facilitating, and not only facilitating but also encouraging, the participation of local and regional authorities in the articulation of regional and national qualifications frameworks with the european system of credits for education and vocational training. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, and returning to the andersson report, i would like to stress the importance of supporting the lifelong learning strategy, promoting a culture of quality improvement at all levels, further increasing the links between teaching and formal education and developing the validation of experience. the aim is to raise the educational level of young people, improve the training of workers and promote economic and social development, which is essential for the realisation of a european social model.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr javier moreno sánchez, on his excellent work, and also my colleague, mr simon busuttil, who, on behalf of the epp, has been appointed as shadow rapporteur. an area without internal borders cannot function without a sharing of responsibilities and solidarity in the management of external borders. this is essential if we are to tackle migration in a comprehensive and harmonised way, combat illegal immigration and implement integrated border management, using common human and material resources. border surveillance is not, however, limited to unauthorized border crossings. it also covers other aspects of the fight against crime, such as the prevention of terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drug smuggling and arms trafficking, thus contributing to the strengthening of internal security. i have no doubt that frontex can play a key role in this integrated border strategy of the union. after the substantial increase in its budget, which has always been demanded by this parliament and supported by commissioner barrot, i think the next step should be to review its mandate in order to close the legal loopholes in respect of rescue operations at sea, cooperation in return operations or even the possibility for third countries to make use of its equipment, which has already been mentioned by president barrot. i therefore agree with an expansion of frontex's role, albeit gradually and in accordance with concrete needs. i also recognise the importance of optimising the use of all security instruments and devices, in particular by extending their current coverage, creating synergies and strengthening cooperation with european agencies such as europol and other international organisations.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i would like to thank mr susta for his report on the impact of counterfeiting on international trade and, of course, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. these questions of counterfeiting and piracy deserve - as mrs korhola has just shown - our full attention and our full commitment. the commission is fully committed to promoting a high level of protection of intellectual property and its respect in third countries. in line with europe's role in the world and the commission's strategy to enforce intellectual property rights, we cooperate with partners who share our concerns. this is the case with the united states, japan, the g8 or the oecd countries. we want the most modern, innovative and quality-oriented european industrial sectors, identified as one of our main assets in terms of global competitiveness, not to be abused or even looted by third countries. the involvement of the european parliament in this matter is welcome. - thank you. - thank you. the commission has followed the drafting of mr susta's report, and i thank him for taking a very ambitious and constructive position. we take note of the proposals concerning work with china, the use of wto dispute settlement, our generalised system of preferences and the need to help our small and mediumsized enterprises more. however, in several areas the final version of the report backs down from the initial approach. the report also adopts a more reserved, more defensive tone, particularly with regard to acta, the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. acta aims to tackle large-scale illegal activities and protect innovators in the european union. and acta is not intended to restrict civil liberties or put pressure on consumers. as the commission has repeatedly stated to the european parliament, acta will not go further than the current eu regime for the enforcement of intellectual property rights. the current regime respects fundamental rights, civil liberties, including the protection of personal data. the application of criminal sanctions will have to be negotiated by the presidency of the european union on behalf of the member states. as regards the questions put by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would point out that since the high-level conference held last may with members of the european parliament, the commission has been considering the most appropriate means of supporting the member states, the judicial and police authorities, businesses and consumers in their fight against these criminals. it is true that these complex problems refer to different areas and fall within the remit of several directorates-general of the commission. we need to strengthen cooperation. at the beginning of this year - and this is important - a unit specialising in the enforcement of industrial and intellectual property rights was set up. i insist on this point. in addition, a solid knowledge base is needed to develop a sustainable strategy to combat counterfeiting and piracy. but here we have a problem: it is the production of statistics. we would need statistics to give us a precise idea of the extent and scale of the problem. the oecd has highlighted this in its report 'the economic impact of counterfeiting and piracy'. we must therefore ensure that accurate and complete information can be collected. companies have access to essential data, but some of this data is considered sensitive. it should be noted that the only statistics which member states are obliged to provide are those concerning customs seizures. similarly, it is difficult to obtain information on the number of people who have been harmed by counterfeit products. even if systems such as the community rapid alert system for consumer goods other than food (rapex) provide elements, they will not be complete. the rapex system was designed to prevent accidents caused by dangerous products. it is true that counterfeit products could fall into this category. the main advantage of rapex is that information on dangerous consumer products detected in one member state can be quickly transmitted to other member states and the commission to prevent other consumers from buying them. however, as rapex covers all dangerous consumer products, it is not necessarily the most appropriate instrument to collect information on harm caused by counterfeit products. the european accident database, which is fed by systematic monitoring of personal injuries, collects data on accidents and personal injuries reported by hospital emergency services. however, the information provided on the origin of the personal injury is sometimes too general and the level of detail is not sufficient to establish whether the damage is due to a counterfeit product. in addition, the disparity in the methods used by the member states to record the causes of accidents makes comparison and the production of statistics difficult and imprecise. it is therefore clear that we must promote the creation of rapid exchange networks through national contact points. this approach would strengthen coordination and information sharing between administrative bodies, judicial and police authorities and the economic sectors concerned throughout the european union. in this respect, the observatory could be very useful. the commission is currently examining the most appropriate practical possibilities for implementing it. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure that all products placed on the market are safe and that market surveillance is carried out effectively, but that market surveillance has not been carried out with the same rigor in all member states in recent years. the commission therefore proposed a regulation on accreditation and market surveillance, which was adopted by the council in june 2008. this regulation establishes a common framework for market surveillance. it concerns the system set up by the general product safety directive but it completes it. it lays down common requirements for market surveillance, which all member states are required to comply with. the regulation introduces a mechanism for cooperation between authorities, both at national and crossborder level. this mechanism should allow useful information to be disseminated in an efficient manner, for example to alert the arrival of dangerous goods at one of the points of entry. last july, the commission adopted a communication on a strategy for industrial property rights in europe. we therefore want to put in place an integrated strategy including non-legislative measures to strengthen the application of these provisions. this strategy will develop a new customs action plan to combat counterfeiting and piracy, to develop new approaches to improve information collection, to promote general awareness campaigns and to increase the effectiveness of cooperation networks at all levels. the council expressed its strong support for this approach. on 25 september 2008, it adopted a comprehensive european plan to combat counterfeiting and piracy. this resolution, which sets out this comprehensive european plan to combat counterfeiting and piracy, is a major political signal. this is proof that the member states attach considerable importance to the respect of intellectual property rights. in this context, the commission met the directors-general of customs of the member states at a high-level seminar held in paris on 25 and 26 november 2008. the seminar helped to define the main lines of a new customs plan to combat counterfeiting for the years 2009 to 2012. the commission will draw up this customs plan to combat counterfeiting under the forthcoming czech presidency. the commission attaches great importance to the protection and effective enforcement of intellectual property rights in third markets. it has established structured dialogues on ipr issues with its main trading partners, such as china. the commission has proposed to introduce detailed provisions on intellectual property rights, with a particular focus on enforcement in bilateral and regional trade agreements. as far as consumer awareness and warning of the increasing risks is concerned, the commission of course considers this to be a major problem. the collection and analysis of robust data is fundamental to support our work, enabling us to develop effective policies and strategies. quality information will enable us to inform and educate consumers without creating distrust and concern for sensitive product lines such as pharmaceuticals or foodstuffs. member states have an important role to play in this respect by ensuring that information is exchanged. i would like to conclude by apologizing, madam president, for being a little long. we want to support member states to be able to contribute more effectively to promoting innovation, protecting consumer health and safety, and we need a comprehensive approach. the commission is therefore concentrating its efforts on the establishment of a mechanism to develop knowledge and cooperation between member states, consumers and businesses. you see, mr. susta, your report is timely. we are now at the heart of a subject which has always been of particular concern to me personally, namely counterfeiting. we cannot defend a europe of innovation if we do not fight counterfeiting effectively. i therefore thank the european parliament for its sensitivity to this major problem. i thank you for your attention and now, madam president, i shall listen carefully to the speeches of the members.
madam president, the european parliament's resolution of 13 december 2007 on the textile sector pointed out that half of the european customs cases concerning counterfeiting concern textiles and clothing. the same resolution underlined the need to apply binding rules on the labelling of textiles imported from third countries, and called on the council to approve the pending proposal for a regulation on the indication 'made in' as a way of increasing consumer protection and supporting european industry. the truth is that a proposal from the european commission in this regard, although insufficient, has been making headway since 2005. so the question we are asking is: when will the european union establish rules for indicating the origin of imports or of products manufactured in the different countries within it?
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of counterfeiting is a dangerous attack on the most legitimate socioeconomic interests in the european union, it undermines the competitiveness of companies, it undermines employment, it puts consumers' safety and health at risk and it seriously harms the member states and the european union itself. so it must be vigorously fought. the european union, by virtue of the transparency and openness of its market, its position as the world's second largest importer of goods and services and the nature of its economic specialisation in high value-added products, is particularly exposed to the dangers of counterfeiting. the negative effects of the crisis are felt throughout the economic fabric, but they are particularly acute in small and mediumsized enterprises, which are naturally less prepared to face such a serious threat. the fight against this particularly dangerous crime requires increased cooperation, both within the european union and in external relations with other countries or regional groups also facing this problem. at the internal level, the measures to be taken should focus on two areas: the progressive harmonization of legislation between the various member states, especially in the criminal field, and the strengthening of cooperation in the customs field. given the special situation of small and mediumsized enterprises, it is necessary to set up a technical assistance service for these enterprises, because they are less prepared to deal with such issues. only then will they be able to defend their rights. at the broader international level, ongoing initiatives, both in the field of bilateral agreements and in the wider field of multilateral regulation of international trade, should be pursued, thus contributing to strengthening the role that the world trade organisation, through its dispute settlement body, can and should play in this area. counterfeiting calls into question some of the foundations of our model of economic and social organisation. it calls into question investment in research and innovation, devalues intelligence and the skill effort, favours organised crime and clearly undermines the rule of law. it is therefore an absolute imperative for all member states of the european union to combat it.
madam president, commissioner, minister, e-justice is an important step in access to the law, to justice and to courts. i would like to welcome the initiative and congratulate the rapporteur and the french presidency. e-justice was one of the projects under discussion and it is up to portugal, during its presidency, to lead the development and implementation of the pilot project which will allow all citizens to access services from other member states in a simpler, cheaper, more comfortable way and in their own language. this multilingual portal should be designed to serve citizens and businesses seeking legal support and basic legal advice on legal and cross-border problems. the e-justice portal should be coordinated and managed by a responsible unit, which will also coordinate the contributions of the various member states and link them with that responsible unit. e-justice will serve the citizen and strengthen our democracy. i welcome the launch of the portal in december 2009.
in writing. the eu has decided to set up a new facility for rapid response to food price rises in developing countries (the 'food facility') with a budget of €1 billion for three years. initially, it was proposed to finance the food facility by using the margin of heading 2 (agriculture) of the multiannual financial framework, then by revising the ceiling of heading 4 (external policy) of the mff, and finally it was defined that it would be financed through the flexibility instrument, the reserve for emergency aid and a reallocation under heading 4 of the stability instrument. the amendment to the interinstitutional agreement aims to increase the funds available in the emergency aid reserve for 2008 to eur 479 218 000 (current prices) to finance this initiative. we welcome the stated objectives of this initiative and reaffirm that it should not be reduced to a mere counterpart or condition for the eu to impose an agreement in the wto or economic partnership agreements with the acp countries, nor should it ignore the reduction in eu development aid, nor the huge sums of the relaunch of the arms race and the militarisation of international relations that it entails.
in writing. - this new amending budget proposal concerns the mobilisation of the solidarity fund (about eur 7.6 million, against a loss of eur 176 million) for cyprus following a period of severe drought. the commission notes, however, that 'in view of the identification of surplus appropriations under cohesion fund heading 13 04 02, no new payment appropriations will be needed to finance the eu solidarity fund payments to cyprus'. in other words, it is from cohesion policy that the money to deal with this natural disaster will come. the 'surplus allocations' in the cohesion fund are due (among many other reasons) to the delay in implementing programmes in the so-called 'cohesion' countries, so instead of applying a concept of 'solidarity' which could penalise the economically less developed countries, what should have been done was to take decisions to avoid the continued under-implementation of structural and cohesion policies. we also draw attention, as in the past, to the need to speed up the procedures for mobilising the solidarity fund; to ensure that regional disasters remain eligible; and to recognize, indeed, the specific nature of mediterranean natural disasters such as drought and fires.
in writing. − the increase in food prices in developing countries is a matter of the utmost importance and requires rapid action by the union to counterbalance the adverse effects on the most deprived populations. in this report, parliament therefore proposes to finance eur 420 million for a rapid response to the consequences of this situation. in particular, the flexibility instrument provided for in the 2006 interinstitutional agreement needs to be mobilised. through this instrument, europe has envisaged the possibility of mobilising a flexibility instrument to allow the financing of specifically identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. the situation under consideration is entirely in line with the institutional requirements and, without any doubt, with the foundations of the union's solidarity policy, and has therefore not raised any doubts for decision-makers in view of the seriousness of the situation. time is of the essence and our swift action and response could be the difference between an accident and a human tragedy with incalculable consequences for the future development of these populations.
in writing. − in the current financial period (2007 and 2008), the solidarity fund has been mobilised 9 times (germany: €166.9 million; united kingdom: €162.3 million; greece: €99 million; france: €17.1 million; hungary: €15 million; slovenia: €8.2 million and cyprus: €7.6 million), amounting to some €477.3 million against a maximum of €1 billion per year. beyond the obvious need for this support - and without going into the procedure for activation and (late) making available - there is the question of the origin of the financial means mobilised, particularly in the light of this draft amending budget. in other words, apart from the urgency of the support to be provided in the event of natural disasters, the origin of these financial means may be called into question, all the more so if they are 'subtracted' from cohesion policy and not, for example, from the funds devoted to the progressive militarisation of the eu. that is to say, we believe that cohesion policy should be safeguarded. finally, as we have done on other occasions, we stress the need to introduce changes in the solidarity fund in order to speed up the procedures for its mobilisation, ensuring that regional disasters remain eligible, and effectively recognising the specific nature of mediterranean natural disasters such as drought and fires.
in writing. − when economic forecasts point to recession in several member states (some of which are already in technical recession), the council and the ep adopt a community budget for 2009 lower in payments than in 2008. but if we compare the current draft budget for 2009 with the ceiling foreseen in the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework for this year - which, as we said then, was already insufficient in itself to ensure the so-called 'economic and social cohesion' in an enlarged eu of 27 - the picture is much worse, falling short of the target by some €8 billion! the community budget for 2009 is the lowest in terms of percentage of community gni (0.89%) since portugal joined the eec. the ep, despite expressing 'concerns' about the 'possible effects of a recession on citizens' and the 'extremely low' levels of payments and implementation of cohesion policy appropriations, endorses the budget. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - while this report contains a number of recommendations which we support, it always does so in a liberal context. this is the case with the defence of the inclusion of the concept of labour mobility, in particular in the policies aimed at completing the internal market, arguing that such policies do not ensure the proper protection of workers. on the other hand, along with the right recommendations, it insists on the economic and social dimension of the lisbon strategy, forgetting that this strategy contains the most neoliberal policies that the european union has and that have already given rise to proposals such as the infamous bolkestein directive, the so-called flexicurity and the council proposal on the working time directive. the report is thus another propaganda document which seeks to hide the anti-social policies of the european union and to hide the consequences of neoliberalism, even though it is a hidden cat with its tail out. it is enough to look at the contradictions in paragraphs 15 and 16. hence our final vote of abstention.
in writing. − while this report contains some important and correct recommendations in advocating greater economic and social support, complementary measures, the integration of migrants and minorities, in highlighting the importance of sport for education and training, in insisting on greater support for pre-primary education, teachers and pupils, particularly in primary and secondary education, it supports the european commission's proposals, including the lisbon strategy, and insists on the implementation of bologna, ignoring its practical consequences. the commission's communication on lifelong learning for knowledge, creativity and innovation not only accepts the picture of progress made and the areas where progress is still insufficient, but also proposes measures to change the situation in line with objectives which are not always the most correct, because they accept and insist on neoliberalism applied to education. it is thus a political declaration which can also be seen as a road map for the years ahead. hence our basic disagreement. we cannot accept that, for example, the modernisation of higher education should be complementary to the reforms in the bologna process and that private sector sponsorship should be increased, especially when public higher education is being stifled, as is the case in portugal.
in writing. the directive on the safety of toys represents a major step forward in ensuring the safety of our children. it was absolutely necessary to broaden the scope and clarify the legislation on such an important matter as this. aspects such as the holding of producers and importers to account and the judicious increase in prohibited substances are evidence of the strictness with which this matter has been dealt with. i would like to commend the rapporteur for having succeeded in establishing the rules to ensure the safety of children, taking into account the survival and balance of small and mediumsized enterprises in this sector. however, it is necessary to reflect on the increased responsibility of the member states that arises from this legislation. the aim of this directive - the safety of our children - requires that the member states meet their obligations, which are now being strengthened in terms of market surveillance. in view of the portuguese case and the successive failures of the responsible (state-sponsored) agency to monitor this matter, i urge the member states to take up their responsibilities properly. it is essential that the advances in safety introduced by this directive be matched by effective and responsible national enforcement action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the marianne thyssen report on the safety of toys, as i believe that the compromise text adopted will make it possible to strengthen the safety requirements for toys by extending the responsibility of producers and importers in the marketing of products and increasing the obligations of market surveillance by the member states. i regret, however, the rejection of amendment no 142, which required that toys be assessed by a third party laboratory before being placed on the market in order to ensure that they were in conformity.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a directive is to strengthen the safety requirements for toys, particularly as regards the use of chemical substances and the requirements relating to electrical properties. the new legislation also adapts the physical and mechanical properties to reduce the risk of suffocation. provisions are also made to strengthen state controls and to impose new obligations on manufacturers. the aim is to improve the existing directive, taking into account the new safety risks that may arise as a result of the development and marketing of new types of toys, possibly made with new materials. however, many doubts arose in the debate and vote on the proposals for this directive. the european commission guarantees were not available at the time of the vote, which caused a minor incident. on the other hand, some experts consider it serious to maintain requirements which do not completely eliminate the use of carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic substances for reproduction (so-called cmr substances), although they establish new restrictions. there is also controversy about the limit values for metals, such as arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, mercury and tin, which are particularly toxic and should not be used in the components of toys to which children have access. that is why i am voting against our group.
in writing. the european parliament could not have marked international migration day in a worse way by approving a report praising the strengthening of the so-called 'frontex' and 'welcoming the adoption of the european pact on immigration and asylum by the european council'. like frontex, the inhumane 'return directive' is one of the central pillars of the eu's criminalising, security, exploitative and elitist immigration policy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the ps members of the ep may well try to whitewash the behaviour of their party and government. the fact is that the council of the eu voted in favour of this shameful directive. the need now arises to combat it in the process of transposition in portugal, which requires denouncing the inhuman and human rights-violating nature of this directive and the mobilisation of all those who are fighting for the defence of the human dignity of immigrants. the cfp will continue to be at the forefront of this fight, pushing for the rejection of the shameful content of this directive and for the ratification of the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families.
in writing. the growing relevance of intellectual property law reflects an inescapable paradigm: the modern economy values and protects the knowledge on which it is based. industries, regardless of their sector, rely heavily on the holding of exclusive rights to exploit a specific know-how. counterfeiting is often condemned because the damage it causes to legitimate industry has obvious implications for employment, research and development. its effects are worrying in my country. moreover, the issues of counterfeiting today outweigh the economic damage. the harmfulness of counterfeiting has new frontiers - where once there were imitations of tailor's clothes, now there are harmful counterfeits of medicines and food products. the unwarned consumer does not question the risk he is taking. it is essential to fight against counterfeiting. that is why we call for stronger sanctions, coordination and cooperation between the competent authorities and the harmonisation of the legal principles applied in the partner jurisdictions. in addition to creating effective mechanisms to deal with potential conflicts and litigation, we need something like the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, a multilateral international agreement under discussion, with the legal innovation needed to adapt effective enforcement and repression practices.
in writing. - the resolution adopted by the european parliament incorporates concerns and proposals which we share, although we disagree with some of its points. the fight against counterfeiting should undoubtedly be a priority. however, although the resolution considers that 'iprs, including geographical indications and designations of origin, are not always effectively protected by the european union's trading partners', it should be stressed that the eu itself is not setting an example, as a proposal for a regulation on 'made in' is currently blocked in the council and the council has not adopted any other measure aimed at applying binding rules on the indication of the origin of products to imports from third countries. we will continue to work towards community action to encourage each country to take and implement measures to combat counterfeiting of trade marks and smuggling, and specific checks at customs to identify products accompanied by false declarations of origin or which violate the rules on the protection of trade marks. each country should implement measures to defend itself against aggressive exports by systematically using control and surveillance of imported goods, with the use of safeguard clauses where necessary.
in writing. − the european area of justice has been developing (either through the mutual recognition of judicial decisions or through the creation of a culture of judicial cooperation between the competent authorities) in order to accompany the free movement of citizens within the european area. it is estimated that some 10 million people are involved in crossborder litigation in europe, with all the problems that underlie it such as language issues, distance, different legal systems, etc. the use of information and communication technologies in the administration of justice ultimately offers new solutions, improves the functioning of justice (better accessibility and efficiency), contributes to the streamlining of procedures and reduces costs. the proposed e-justice strategy has as its primary objective to enhance the effectiveness of justice across europe for the benefit of citizens. however, the potential scope of e-justice can be very wide, and the scope of its action needs to be clearly defined so as not to jeopardise the effectiveness and credibility of eu action. any developments should be made gradually and in line with the progress of the european judicial area and technological developments. i support the call on the commission to prepare a european action plan and to create a european e-justice portal.
in writing. - since it is impossible to comment on the (intentional) amalgamation of this report, we will focus on what we consider to be its main objective: whitewashing the interference of the eu's great powers in third countries, under the concept of the 'responsibility to protect'. the report, stressing the sovereignty of states, then considers that 'however, ... in cases where governments prove incapable of or refuse to guarantee such protection, the responsibility to take appropriate measures becomes a collective responsibility at the level of the entire international community', and these should 'have a preventive as well as a reactive character and imply the use of coercive military force', stating that the latter will be used 'only as a last resort', language not betraying the intention. and, in the same vein, there can be no doubt, it "calls" for "the principle of non-intervention to yield to the international responsibility to protect", considering that "the restoration of peace and state-building are processed in two phases: the stabilization phase in which the emphasis is placed on security, law and order and the provision of basic services; and the second phase of state-building which focuses on governance and the institutions that will implement it". and so we have the be-a-ba of the booklet that opens the door to meddling and colonialism.
the european parliament, like other countries which are taking the path of affirming and defending their sovereignty and national independence, that is, the right to decide their own present and future, and which are promoting a project of emancipation and social progress and solidarity with the peoples of the world, is once again engaging in an unacceptable and despicable act of interference, this time in relation to nicaragua. this debate and this resolution are only intended to give blatant support to those who are fuelling and promoting a process of interference and attempts to destabilize a democratic and sovereign state such as nicaragua. instead of distorting reality and facts and legitimately giving conspiratorial lessons on democracy to nicaragua, the european parliament should have denounced the anti-democratic operation of the european union to impose a proposal for a european treaty which has already been rejected, in profound disregard of the democratic and sovereign decision expressed by the french, dutch and irish peoples. instead of interfering in what only the nicaraguan people can decide, the european parliament should have rejected the inhumane return directive, which violates the human rights of immigrants, many of them from latin america, and denounced the european union's complicity in the criminal flights of the cia. instead of following the united states' manoeuvres of interference, the european parliament should denounce the unacceptable blackmail of the european union towards nicaragua and demand that the commitments it has made to that country be respected. what really bothers the promoters of this initiative is that nicaragua is determined to improve the living conditions of its people in food, health, education, supporting the most disadvantaged population. the best indication of this manoeuvre of interference by the european parliament is the real recognition and solidarity of the peoples of latin america with nicaragua. so, once again, stop pretending that you can lecture the world.
madam president, we are concluding a debate of the utmost importance which, as has already been said here, is a debate we should have had a long time ago. russia is essential to us in every way, but above all as a country where human rights must be respected. these human rights necessarily include the denial of xenophobia and homophobia, and i would appeal to all colleagues to make explicit reference to these two enormous scourges in russia, which are rightly considered as such in the resolution being proposed, and not to accept withdrawing them.
