i am speaking today to bring to your attention the situation of romanian farmers today, one year after our accession to the european union. agriculture is still inefficient or too inefficient in romania and yet vital for a large part of the population. we have a large share of farmers in the total employed population, but also a large number of elderly farmers. in this context, i welcome the commission's decision not to activate the safeguard clause in this area; but that's not enough. payments from european funds will be only 25% of the european average in 2008. it takes nine years to touch it. in recent years, romania has been rapidly transposing the community acquis in the field of quality, sanitation and phytosanitary matters. adaptation costs can be a significant obstacle to the achievement of common agricultural policy benefits by romanian farmers. romania is the second largest agricultural producer in central and eastern europe after poland and only the use of european funds can recover and use this potential intelligently.
the year 2008 is the european year of intercultural dialogue. this year, all 27 eu member states have the opportunity to promote their culture, history, language and traditions more widely. the union's motto is 'united in diversity' and 2008 should really help to strengthen the cohesion of the european union, based on intercultural dialogue. romania has been influenced by several countries over the centuries: byzantine, russian, austro-hungarian, and ottoman. 86% of romania's population is orthodox, making it the only predominantly orthodox country of latin origin in europe. i would also point out that there are 18 officially recognized cults in romania. intercultural dialogue must also include interfaith dialogue. i ask that, in the european year of intercultural dialogue, the 34 delegations of the european parliament be more active in promoting european values in other countries and on other continents, but also in facilitating the knowledge of other cultures and traditions. i hope that, through intercultural dialogue, 2008 will make an effective contribution to the promotion of peace, one of the fundamental reasons and values of the european union.
i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this report. i think this debate is extremely important. the european union can only have the most dynamic knowledge-based economy if it invests enough in research and, above all, if the results obtained can be integrated into industrial production. climate change is one of the greatest challenges of this century. also in large urban areas, road traffic and pollution are problems that were identified by 66% of european citizens, and 70% of them expect the union to get involved in solving them. the automotive industry must be able to deliver less polluting products; however, the industry needs to be supported in its research work and, above all, it is important that any imposition takes account of the time required for the whole cycle of new types of motor vehicles: from conception to design, manufacture, testing and marketing. we must also take account of market demand and, above all, of the purchasing power of citizens. in this context, i believe that member states should be encouraged to introduce tax incentives for end-users to encourage them to invest in less polluting cars. romania has introduced such a system since 2003 with very good results. the development of the european automotive industry will allow the preservation and creation of a significant number of jobs.
on behalf of the pse group. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 11/1960 on the elimination of discrimination in respect of transport rates and conditions requires operators of road, rail and inland waterway transport of goods within the community to provide information on the rates, applicable agreements, conditions of transport and the necessary accompanying documents. it is thus forbidden for operators to create discrimination by applying differentiated tariffs (and here i refer to the transport of the same product, in the same type of transport system, on the same route), but discrimination created by the country of destination or origin. this regulation is extremely important, but as it was initiated in 1960, an update was needed. the proposed amendment simplifies existing legislation and provides greater stability in terms of freight transport conditions. according to the statistics provided by the commission, it is true - as the commissioner said - that the activity of 300 000 transport operators will be affected, in practice, or so the regulation refers, and this amendment will reduce administrative expenditure at community level by approximately eur 160 million per year. the european parliament has set itself the goal of reducing the administrative burden on businesses by 25% by 2012. the proposal to amend the two regulations, as submitted by the commission, is part of the measures designed to achieve this objective. it is true, however, that the transport committee was referred to the codecision procedure, and article 75 (3) of the treaty does not allow this. that is why the proposal put forward by mr costa, the rapporteur, was adopted unanimously.
i would like to begin by congratulating mr stokman as rapporteur for having substantially improved the commission's proposal. all airports covered by this directive will be subject to common transparency rules and will provide information on how airport charges are calculated and used. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. in view of the multitude of activities at an airport, it is important to clearly define the responsibility of each entity and, in particular, how these activities are financed. but we must be careful that this directive is actually applied in all the member states. a continuous dialogue between airports and air transport operators is indispensable. i have asked for an amendment to the tax to be used for this purpose only. member states should also use the structural funds to develop the infrastructure of regional airports. according to eurostat data, in five of the new member states, air passenger transport increased by 25% in 2006 compared with 2005. romania recorded the highest increase in the same period, namely 35%.
given that we need to ensure transparency, proper information for users and passengers, and that we need to ensure the quality of air transport services, and given that in the first 11 months of 2006 alone 211 new regional routes were created, leading to the emergence of some 1800 new flights per week, i would like to ask the commission what measures it is taking to inform passengers about airport charges, given that, unfortunately, passengers are not aware of their rights in situations such as flight cancellations or delays.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking your rapporteur, mr stockmann, once again for having extended our dialogue. we have ourselves, i myself have entered into a dialogue with the airports and with the airlines. i am grateful to mr stockmann for having listened to both sides, because it is not easy to establish the rules of a good dialogue which will allow us to reach balanced solutions and to avoid that airports in a dominant position can abuse this position. so, mr stockmann, i'm already answering your questions. in terms of passenger numbers, we think five million is acceptable. the consideration of networks is necessary, and i accept that. i am, however, very reserved about delegation to regional authorities. such a delegation could be dangerous and i don't see what more it would bring. it is precisely the need to have an impartial authority which will endeavour to ensure that the same conditions exist for dialogue and the fixing of charges at the airports concerned. as far as environmental modulation is concerned, it is acceptable. but i will come back to this, we have no reason to imagine prefinancing infrastructure. in the proper management of an airport, in the fees, it is obviously a question of foreseeing what will be necessary for the infrastructure. there's no reason to pre-finance. so, that was some answers. i would like to return to a few observations. first of all, i want to reply to mr simpson that the directive has avoided falling into the regulations, into the bureaucracy. what we want is respect for basic principles. the member states have accepted these principles in the international civil aviation organisation. it is not a question of making regulations for the sake of regulations. i think that we can honestly say that we have found the best framework for a good dialogue between airlines and airports, and i believe that transparency can be improved in this dialogue. mr allister said that the directive would increase the cost of regional airports. it's the opposite, isn't it? on the contrary, it is precisely through the transparency of the accounts, through the consultation required, through the non-discrimination between carriers that we will succeed in ensuring, particularly in certain regional airports, that all this is transparent and really allows consumers, passengers, to be able to take a plane more easily, without any unpleasant surprises. i have said, and i am referring to mrs lichtenberger, that the directive allows member states to set fees or charges for noise pollution or other environmental issues. but since this directive is not intended to regulate at any cost, we do not have to go into all this definition of taxes. however, to answer mr el khadraoui, it is certain that there will be the possibility of modulating the charges on an environmental basis. the council has proposed it and i intend to accept it. i've been asked about the problems with flight cancellations. the text does not deal with this question. so i can hardly answer. we have made great progress on the issue of passenger rights. we have to keep going. i would ask you, madam president, to write to me to ask me to give a more precise answer to your question, which i accept is well founded, as indeed is the case with the speaker, mrs ţicău. i shall now briefly give you the commission's position on the amendments. several amendments proposed by your rapporteur reinforce the commission's objectives to improve the relationship between airports and airlines. the commission, mr stockmann, accepts 21 of these amendments which contribute to this objective. i would mention the amendments on the definition of a charge, amendment no 12, and also the amendment on airport networks, amendments nos 14 and 16, with some changes in wording. the commission had initially proposed that the directive should cover airports with an annual traffic of more than one million passengers. the commission accepts the new limit as proposed in the first part of amendment no 7, since it seems to have the support of a majority in both parliament and the council. on the other hand, 27 of the amendments proposed by your rapporteur are not acceptable as they stand and we think they should be discussed in greater depth. this is particularly the case with the amendments concerning security charges: 13, 21, 22, 23, 24. this has been the subject of long and passionate debates. the conciliation process has resulted in a compromise and it seems to me, mr stockmann, that these amendments are therefore no longer necessary. the directive should not only cover cases of infringement of competition law. the commission cannot therefore accept amendments which concern situations where airports have a dominant position vis-à-vis their users. the scope of the directive is wider. so amendment no 7, in part, amendment no 16, in part, amendment no 19 and amendment no 20 do not seem to us to be necessary. the commission cannot accept the amendments on the pre-financing of airport infrastructure either. the levying of a charge before the infrastructure is operational is contrary to the principles on which the directive is based. but that does not detract from the excellent work of mr stockmann, who, i think, has made this draft directive much better. i have therefore made a few comments on a number of amendments, but i would like to thank mr stockmann and the committee on transport for the quality of the work and for the contribution to the progress of this important dossier, which will enable us to structure the dialogue between airports and airlines. we want to avoid that users become victims of this lack of dialogue and that, in the absence of transparency, a number of practices can be carried out without it being possible to approve them. i would like to say this, thanking parliament very much for its commitment to this matter. i think that our airports and our airlines should find a way of establishing a permanent dialogue that will be mutually beneficial. the commission's position on amendments by parliamentstockmann report (a6-0497/2007) the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. − the initiative to clarify the rules on airport charges and to develop non-discriminatory and transparent procedures for the calculation of these charges is welcome as it prevents abuses by airports with a dominant market position. this ensures transparency and continuous exchange of information between providers and beneficiaries of air transport services, both for individual airports and for airport networks. in addition, member states have the possibility to apply the provisions of this directive to other airports in their national territory, thus encouraging competition and, by implication, lower airport charges, to the benefit of end-users. by having common standards, passengers will benefit from similar services at the same prices and airports will manage all facilities and services strictly on a cost-effective basis. the creation of an independent national regulatory authority in each member state will ensure that these procedures are properly implemented. i am convinced that by adopting this regulation, those who will benefit most will be european citizens. it will also encourage the extension of investment to the aviation sector and increase safety, security and passenger confidence, which will make a significant contribution to the development of the european union's air transport sector in the long term.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the export and import of dangerous substances improves the way chemicals are used so that public health and the environment are more effectively protected. this is with a view to encouraging the shared responsibility of exporters and importers and supporting their cooperative efforts to ensure control over the international movement of dangerous chemicals. the new regulation amends the definition of exporter to include persons exporting these chemicals from the european union but not established in the union, thus ensuring effective control and surveillance of the flow of dangerous chemicals. the prior consent procedure, known as pic, for which certain chemicals require explicit authorisation from the importing country, also helps countries involved in trade to be better informed about dangerous chemicals that have been banned for environmental and public health reasons and that may enter the national territory of importing countries. however, the pic procedure is not a substitute for effective and robust national border controls and member states should cooperate to ensure the effective management of the movement of these dangerous products within their national territory.
we welcome the commission's good intentions, but its effectiveness may be questionable. to maximise the impact of policies and protect workers, accurate statistics on occupational diseases are needed. the data available is incomplete, underestimates the phenomena or ignores reality. women are the main victims of this deficiency. first, because they work more in the informal economy or the "grey economy". the effects of working conditions on health are not recorded at all in this sector. the existing legal framework preserves an approach that focuses on accidents and risks in the so-called 'heavy', male, branches of the economy. we call on the commission to take a closer look at the specific differences between men and women employees, to assess the availability of gender-segregated data and to look at the long-term effects and psychological consequences of work. to prove the relevance of the request, we invite you to a factory in the textile industry. hearing and vision can be severely affected, and circulatory diseases are very common. the statistics are ignoring the situation. it's a so-called "light" industry, where women work mostly, and the wages are low, and because there's no risk. thus, current statistics preserve historical inequalities between men and women, including the gender pay gap.
as rapporteur in the itre committee for this document, i called for the active promotion of participation in european trade unions and asked the commission to propose a legal framework to encourage the social partners to carry out cross-border negotiations. the european commission and the member states could finance training for workers' representatives to defend and promote their rights to safety and health at work. i also called on all member states to sign and ratify the united nations convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families and to coordinate improvements in access to training, in particular for part-time and contract workers, to facilitate a more stable employment. i believe that member states should implement the necessary measures to ensure that work in difficult or dangerous conditions is reflected in the social protection rights of the person concerned, both during the period of employment and during the period of retirement.
the adoption of a european strategy on health and safety at work is a welcome initiative by the european commission. however, i think that there are some additional aspects that need to be considered. we must bear in mind, as one of my colleagues who spoke earlier rightly said, that there is a special situation with regard to immigrants in the european labour market. a recent study by the european commission shows that migrants are exposed to much higher risks in terms of health and safety at work. this is due both to the prevalence of undeclared work and to other factors such as: the lack of recognition of social and pension rights between the member states of the union and, of course, problems in the cross-border use of health insurance. these are matters of european competence and the commission should closely monitor the implementation of union rules so that the precarious situation of migrants is improved. moreover, european funds can be used to train additional labour inspectorates who can identify irregularities in the health and, of course, safety of employees.
member of the commission. - the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we know that the modernisation and simplification regulations are being adopted, so this proposal would lose much of its interest if we were to delay. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one. the commission has already taken into account, to a significant extent, recent case law of the court of justice in its proposal on crossborder healthcare which will soon be discussed in the college of commissioners. the european parliament's favourable vote on this text will enable the commission to concentrate its efforts on modernising and simplifying the texts. we have a lot of work to do before the new texts are implemented. this effort will facilitate the rights of citizens moving within the european union in the long term and thus make this fundamental objective of european integration more concrete. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the regulation we are amending (1408/71) plays a very important role in the realisation of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union, namely freedom of movement. the free movement of labour throughout the european union must not be restricted either directly by restricting the categories of occupation to which nationals of other member states have access or indirectly by eroding the social rights enjoyed by foreign workers. the commission proposal, which is accompanied by parliament's amendments, will therefore determine precisely when citizens continue to enjoy the special benefits granted by the state of nationality, when these benefits can be exported, or whether other social schemes are applied which do not disadvantage the foreign national. in addition, by broadening the categories of employment contracts used in europe, a common understanding of what constitutes self-employment or authorised natural person status is needed. last but not least, i believe that this report contributes to guaranteeing the social rights of citizens working in another eu member state. the removal of the bottlenecks in the recognition of social rights will lead to more mobility in the european union and a higher level of employment.
children's rights are a core issue that unites us all, regardless of country of origin or political views. when we talk about children, we are talking about our future, the future of european citizens and, in fact, the future of the european union as a whole. i can therefore only welcome the report on the european strategy on the rights of the child. the very process of its elaboration, by including six opinions from various parliamentary committees, confirms the importance of the subject and the text contained in the charter of fundamental rights. the best interests of the child must be considered paramount. in the light of its values and its development concept, the european union has a moral obligation to make the rights of the child a top priority for its action, both internally and internationally. at the national level, i would like to reiterate the importance of two aspects: firstly, the negative consequences of emigration and the precarious situation of children left alone in their countries by emigrant parents. i thank the rapporteur for accepting my suggestion to draw attention to this phenomenon still present in the lives of europeans and i support his call for these children to be provided with care, social integration and a comprehensive education. equally important is the objective of ensuring that all european children have the right to education. outside the european union, it is also essential to promote children's rights internationally, especially in the european union's relations with neighbouring countries and strategic partners. among the various situations that exist in the world, i would like to point out the violation of children's rights in cases of crisis and conflict, especially in frozen conflict zones where the rule of law is simply denied. the european union cannot tolerate such situations and must take firm action to ensure that children's rights are respected everywhere. the year 2007 saw the european union take firm steps in this direction, but 2008 will be the crucial year for the implementation of the new strategy on the rights of the child. i therefore invite the commission and the council to take into account the recommendations of the european parliament in order to make this strategy a success.
we know that the role of adult continuing education is recognised by the member states as being of particular importance, contributing to personal well-being, self-confidence, active citizen participation, social integration and intercultural dialogue. however, access to programmes for adults in continuing education remains limited, despite the european union's ambition to reach a participation rate of 12.5% by 2010. this is why the implementation and promotion by member states of effective european adult education and training programmes, especially for older people, the disabled and migrants, could result in better integration of these people into society and increased labour market mobility. as a member of the committee on education and culture, i believe that the development of volunteering programmes on intergenerational solidarity, the involvement of states, private enterprises and individuals are key points in facing the new challenges of demographic change, poverty and social exclusion. on the basis of the human rights to literacy and education, as well as the obligations of the member states to guarantee quality adult training, i believe, mr president, that we too have a responsibility to develop sustainable instruments to finance and support lifelong learning.
indeed, it is never too late to learn. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the preparation of this report on a subject which is of vital importance at european and international level. unfortunately, many citizens still accept the outdated concept that education is only given in the early stages of life. we must encourage access to european funds available for adult education, especially in the states that have recently joined the european union. in these countries, absorption of funds is quite low and the number of people involved in retraining and continuing education programmes is very low. i believe that it is essential to change the mindset of young people in their initial educational process in order to prepare them for a europe on the move. we must instill in them, through new programmes developed at european level, the idea that their training does not end with the first qualification. it is important to recognise that anyone can acquire new skills and competences at any time, regardless of age, ethnicity, gender or geographical region. and so, with that in mind, there's a fundamental perception that we have to be able to learn.
i would certainly like to join my colleagues in congratulating mrs doris pack on her report. the subject is very important for europe today and especially for europe tomorrow. the development of a society, as well as social cohesion, are inextricably linked to education, and when we talk about education we should not refer strictly to formal education, but we should recognize and encourage non-formal and informal education, which is strongly focused on the development of the individual. i would like to draw attention to the importance of immigrant education. i think that reality has already shown us that we need the education of immigrants for their social integration, the education for tolerance, for building solidarity, and the education for performance, for the development of europe.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report and support the proposal to use the structural funds for investments in mining infrastructure to stop the many accidents in this sector. the european union cannot have a credible strategy for protecting workers without providing financial support to the member states. the mining sector is the branch of industry in romania most affected by accidents at work, but national financial resources for improving working conditions are insufficient. the european commission can remedy this situation through the funds it makes available to the member states. i also propose that part of the european funds under the operational programme for human resources be used for training and equipping labour inspection departments. it is important that all member states achieve the minimum required by the international labour organisation of at least one safety inspector per 10,000 workers.
mr. prime minister, i congratulate you on speaking to us today in your capacity as president of the council of the european union. slovenia is admired by other european nations for its remarkable progress since 1990 and for its leadership in achieving the milestones of integration - whether it is the conclusion of accession negotiations, the adoption of the euro or the assumption of the presidency of the council. i also congratulate you on the way in which you have set out, together with the german and portuguese governments, the priorities of the european union for the next six months. it is undoubtedly desirable that the treaty of lisbon, which puts an end to a long identity crisis in the union, should be ratified as soon as possible and accepted as a genuine democratic act by all european citizens. it is also desirable that the objectives of the lisbon strategy be put into practice as soon as possible, as we are facing a wave of pessimism from citizens regarding this policy. the european commission's latest eurobarometer survey of december 2007 indicates a relative decline in europeans' confidence in both components of the strategy: growth and employment. unemployment remains the main fear of european citizens, although it has significantly eased since 2006. with the new cycle starting in 2008 for the lisbon strategy, the european parliament will adopt an action plan on labour mobility, precisely to reinvigorate employment levels in europe. a problem in this regard remains the restricted access to the european labour market for more than 100 million union citizens. that is why i am asking you, mr prime minister, to support the initiatives of the european parliament and the european commission for open access to the labour market. i am convinced that europe is thus securing its economic future by guaranteeing the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaty.
benazir bhutto repeats the tragic enough of her family, started by her father, zulfikar ali bhutto. the assassination of mrs bhutto is aimed at stopping the democratization process in pakistan, but also at destabilising this country which, let us not forget, is our main ally in the fight against terrorism in the campaign we are waging in afghanistan. and i would like to remind you that 25 countries in the european union have military or civilian representatives in afghanistan today. the pakistani army is carrying out important military balancing actions on the border with afghanistan, especially in the provinces of zabol and helmand, where we are represented by mainly british, lithuanian and romanian troops. i would say in this connection that it is very important to discuss the question of who is responsible for the assassination of mrs bhutto, it is very important to discuss the continuation of the democratization process, but it is equally important to discuss the maintenance of the military balance on the border with afghanistan and who can guarantee that balance because, mr president, a possible failure in afghanistan due to a destabilized pakistan would be a shameful moment for the democratic and free world that we represent.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking mrs járóka, mrs angelilli, mr wiersma and also mrs mohácsi for these questions, which i am dealing with on behalf of my colleague mr vladimír špidla, who is in china at the moment, and which give us the opportunity to debate this very important subject. the past year has really shown that both the institutions of the european union and the member states themselves are intensifying their efforts to improve the situation of roma in the european union in a lasting way. we heard it was necessary, and i agree. some important steps have already been taken in this respect. these range from the european parliament's 2005 resolution establishing the european year of equal opportunities for all, to the work of the high-level expert group on ethnic minorities' integration and the european economic and social committee, and the recently adopted conclusions of the european council in december, which have just been cited. i can say that the difficult issue of discrimination experienced by roma and their exclusion from society and the labour market is really not acceptable. we are therefore determined to use all the instruments at our disposal, such as legislation, the structural funds and information and awareness campaigns, to improve this situation. it is clear that employment and social policy programmes and measures are not being used sufficiently to promote the social integration of roma. we must therefore concentrate all our efforts on improving access to such measures through a targeted approach. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. let me therefore briefly address your questions in concrete terms and set out our proposals for 2008: the commission will adopt a communication this summer on the revised strategy to combat discrimination, a follow-up to the european year of equal opportunities for all. this communication will address the roma issue and the recommendations of the high level expert group on the integration of ethnic minorities, in line with the conclusions of the european council of december 2007. the communication is accompanied by a commission staff working paper analysing the progress and effectiveness of these measures, both at political and legislative level and in the programming of the structural funds for the benefit of the roma. at the same time, we propose to organise a high-level roma forum. this forum is intended to bring together representatives of national governments and parliaments, the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, as well as leading figures from roma civil society and other key actors. we are convinced that a high-level open debate can strengthen the rights of roma and achieve a much more targeted use of resources in their favour. the staff of my colleague vladimír špidla will prepare the initiatives mentioned and then focus on the roma problem in the areas of non-discrimination, european social fund, employment and social integration. as the situation of roma people affects several areas of the commission's activities, such as regional policy, education, public health and justice, the interdepartmental group on roma issues, which has been in existence since 2004, will be responsible for the exchange of information. finally, the commission has just concluded a framework partnership agreement with the european roma information office, erio. the aim of this partnership is to establish a permanent and direct contact between the european institutions and roma civil society. it should also be noted that the european year of intercultural dialogue, which has just begun, is being marked by a number of actions at both national and european level. these aim to highlight the importance of dialogue between cultures and, above all, the benefits that cultural diversity brings to our society, and thus to increase public awareness. the commission will issue a green paper on educational issues related to pupils with a migrant background or from disadvantaged minorities in spring 2008. it also deals with key aspects of roma life, such as school segregation. the green paper is intended to open a wide-ranging debate on this subject and possibly lead to an action plan at european level. i would also like to add - to answer a question put by mrs mohácsi directly - that the commission intends to present in 2008 the proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment outside employment, i.e. a horizontal directive, as we announced in our work programme. these are the main things we are preparing at the moment, and i look forward to the debate and perhaps have a few comments to add at the end.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i consider that the organisation of this debate in plenary is extremely important in the context of the need to take stock of european actions concerning the roma population and to consider ways of increasing their effectiveness. several recent events have demonstrated that there are still significant shortcomings in european policy in this area and that it needs to be updated and readjusted to the challenges of today. mutual tolerance and multi-ethnic integration are fundamental principles of the european union, and roma constitute an important community at european level, with considerable impact on socio-political and economic life in many eu member states. it is therefore imperative to develop a coherent vision at european level of the roma population, focusing on their integration and ensuring a common basis of rights and responsibilities. although i asked the european commission a question on this subject in november and was told that new proposals for roma integration would be launched, i ask the commission to come back with details of these intentions. firstly, i would like to know how the commission intends to approach this issue from an institutional point of view, so as to ensure effective coordination and monitoring of european action to protect and integrate roma. no less important is the role of education, as pointed out here by my other colleagues, especially, i would say, education for tolerance. education for all citizens of the european union, education for tolerance as a factor stimulating integration, interaction and social relations within the european union. their development would, on the one hand, facilitate the social integration of roma and, on the other, limit the possibilities of stigmatisation and discrimination against them. i therefore ask the commission to inform us of the existence of such programmes and their implementation, and above all to take this into account in the formulation of future european policy on the roma population. i thank you and hope that this debate will result in firm and concrete decisions to improve european action on the roma population.
mr president, roma are neither the successors of the ancient roman empire, nor the contemporary inhabitants of rome. they are neither a nation without a state nor a national minority. they are an ethnocultural community, still cherishing its tribal tradition, and a pan-european community which was kept in slavery in pre-modern and early modern europe, which was sent to extermination camps by the fascist regimes and enclosed in the states turned into prisons by the communist dictatorship. they became free european citizens after the end of the cold war and the first post-bipolar european union enlargement. being marginalised and excluded over the centuries, the roma community found itself excluded from european wealth and tried to protect itself by challenging the european order. today, now that europe is reconciled with itself, should it be reconciled with the roma population as well, or should it declare and treat the roma as second-class citizens who are again to be concentrated in some member states transformed into roma ghettos? to these questions there is a single answer: the roma issue is a european issue. it is not a simple issue but a huge challenge – a common challenge which we must cope with jointly. otherwise we will be unable to integrate the roma community into european society and bring it into the european order. this is a cultural and social matter. the european union should mobilise funds, develop programmes and organise specific institutional structures in order to assist the national authorities of the countries where the roma choose to settle in order to offer this community a decent material life, a proper education, a fair opportunity to compete with others, free of any discrimination, and a cohesive sense of their existence within european civilisation. we expect the european commission to take the right steps in that direction and to keep the european parliament fully informed on the progress achieved.
the reporter. - a year ago, in january 2007, in the same room, we celebrated the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union. i was thinking about the new opportunities created both for the two new member states and for the european union as a whole. the need for active and consistent union involvement in the black sea area and the development of a genuine regional cooperation policy, comparable to those existing for the mediterranean and the northern dimension, was necessary and obvious. now, in january 2008, as rapporteur for black sea cooperation, i have the opportunity to open this debate in plenary to discuss the concrete recommendations of the european parliament for the development of black sea synergy proposed in april by the european commission. these recommendations are the result of a broad process of reflection and consultation with all interested colleagues, as well as independent experts and officials. the report underlines the strategic importance of the black sea region for the european union, while at the same time clearly defining the objective of cooperation policy in this area: the creation of a common area of security, democracy and prosperity. the report highlights the importance of regional cooperation in mobilising the 10 riparian countries for dialogue and joint action, which are characterised by their diversity but also by an enormous potential that we cannot ignore. a priority responsibility of the european union is therefore to take on the role of active promoter of regional cooperation in the black sea. the key question this report seeks to answer is: how can european regional cooperation policy in the black sea be strengthened and effectively implemented to achieve the objective of creating a common area of security, democracy and prosperity? first, we need the european union's actions to be consistent, firm and focused on concrete results. the report identifies three key aspects: the mobilisation of all relevant financial instruments, increased cooperation with other institutions and bodies in the region, and, last but not least, the monitoring of actions to ensure their continuity and effectiveness and the establishment of an action plan. the report also recommends that the european union focus on five priority areas. it is clear that the black sea region is of strategic importance for the european union's energy security and diversification and requires a comprehensive approach in this direction. but it is imperative that the european union goes beyond economic cooperation and aims as its overriding objective to create a region where stability, democracy and good governance prevail. the european union's policy in the black sea region will not be complete until the european union is deeply involved in resolving existing conflicts, and the development of civil society, human contacts and good neighbourly relations are essential in this direction. as we are also discussing mrs polfer's report on the south caucasus, and the countries of this region are part of the wider black sea area, i would like to welcome the preparation of this report. it is important that the main ideas of the two reports coincide and underline the importance of cooperation and dialogue between all states as a prerequisite for development and prosperity, but also the need for a consistent involvement of the european union. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those who contributed to the report on black sea synergy. i appreciated the spirit of cooperation and the unanimous support of my colleagues in all groups. i hope that this spirit will guide the european union and the states of the black sea region in their joint effort to develop regional cooperation in this area.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − with the accession of romania and bulgaria, the union has become an important player in the black sea region. the region is of geostrategic importance for the energy security and diversification of the union's energy supply routes, due to its proximity to the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia. promoting the union's principles cannot be done at the level of political values alone. open and transparent markets in the region need to be encouraged. the itre committee underlines the importance of the nabucco project for the diversification of the union's energy sources and calls on the member states, together with its partners, to ensure its implementation. we welcome the appointment of a coordinator for this priority project of european interest. the development of the infrastructure of the community ports on the black sea and the danube is essential for international trade and for the transport of hydrocarbons in the region. the itre committee regrets the lack of coordination of investment in energy, transport and tourism projects in the region and draws attention to the danger of pollution in the black sea. recognising the importance of the black sea forum and the black sea economic cooperation organisation, the itre commission recommends the creation of an eu black sea dimension similar to the nordic dimension.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the south caucasus is a region of utmost importance, not only for the european union, but for most of the global players. i believe that the european union should define its interests in the region. basically, those interests consist in having a peaceful and stable place in the south caucasus, in having a large enough free and integrated market, in having an open area for the safe transit of strategic merchandise, and in having institutions and legislation that are interoperable with european union ones. in order to promote our interest, the european union should develop appropriate nuanced and specific bilateral relations with the member states of the region. the substance of the bilateral relations should result from our regional strategic approach, and not the other way round. since we cannot offer the south caucasus countries european union membership, we must offer them the european union model and assist them, in a substantial way, to enhance it. the european union should not hesitate to use all its means in order to reach its regional goals in south caucasus. at the same time we must acknowledge that the other international operators have an interest in the region and we have acknowledged the fact that the european union could not possibly move its priorities without cooperation with the other global actors. some of the unsolved conflicts in the area are, in fact, part of a broader coherent problem which is linked to the post-soviet status of russia. therefore, the european union should courageously address that problem and try to find a negotiated solution concerning the way in which russia, the european union and other global players must share responsibilities for guaranteeing the sustainable regional and global stability and security. on the other hand, we must admit that principles of territorial integrity and self-determination are clashing in the south caucasus. my opinion is that one could overcome this clash of principles by combining regional integration following the european union communitarian model with an appropriate use of the internal self-determination, devolution and autonomy. this would require good-faith negotiations, political will, a pragmatic spirit and respect for international law provisions. it is the right time for the european union to pass from promises to action in the south caucasus. i hope that this will indeed happen.
madam president, after more than a century and a half of neglect, the black sea area is again at the pinnacle of international economics and politics. this area is currently striving to reach a new balance following the entrance of new actors, the eu included, after being considered a closed lake for so many years during the cold war. after the commission’s communication entitled ‘black sea synergy: a new regional cooperation initiative’, the current first report in parliament is another step in the right direction. but unfortunately, both are still not enough. the lack of identity of the area itself and the traditional sensitivities of certain eu countries towards russia, both political (for example ukraine, moldova, the southern caucasus and the frozen conflicts) and economic (the increased european dependence on russian gas and the delicate status of the eu-turkey negotiations), are probably among the reasons why the eu has limited itself to synergy instead of strategy. while strategy means clear objectives, concrete means to attain them and, eventually, a detailed calendar, all tailored to the merit of the area itself, synergy suggests simply connecting to neighbouring areas of interest to the eu. a strategy could be arrived at through concrete measures on how the eu deals with a multitude of local organisations; on physically linking the area to the rest of the continent in which the river danube is crucial; and on strengthening the instrument of neighbourhood policy towards the black sea area, as suggested through my group’s amendments. in conclusion, one word on moldova, the last piece of continental latinity outside eu borders. although part of the same regrettable experience at the beginning of the second world war, moldova could not share the positive destiny of the three baltic countries after the cold war. i believe europe has a duty to correct that situation and thus continue to encourage and respond to moldova’s efforts to join the union. my hope is that her case will be finally judged on its own merit and not remain a de facto prisoner of other eu relations, no matter how strategic that relation might be.
first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs anastase, and the other members of the committee responsible for the opinions, on the substantial report we are debating, a report which i would say is as substantial as the problems involved in the approach to a regional policy for the black sea. i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on regional development for supporting the amendments i tabled to the opinion of the committee on which i sit. i do so by referring to the inclusion in the final form of the black sea report of the call for strengthening the european border assistance mission in the republic of moldova and ukraine, the need to better manage migration and illegal immigration in the region. i believe that we need the commission's encouragement in its actions in the region, at state level but also at regional level, if this space is to evolve towards a genuine democracy and stability. a more active involvement of the european union gives a real chance to this region with a huge potential, under-exploited, if we assess the impact generated by frozen conflicts, by the conflicting relations of some countries in the region. on the institutional side, i also support the idea of the region's eu member states (romania, bulgaria and greece) taking a leading role, and of the union and the region's states strengthening and coordinating regional cooperation activities and mechanisms in the black sea region. only then will the approval of the doubling of the funds available under the european neighbourhood instrument, as well as the principles governing the structural funds, such as partnership, sustainability, efficiency, non-discrimination and decentralisation, produce the positive effects we all expect.
the essence of the european neighbourhood policy is cooperation based on a set of common values and interests of the union with the countries to which it applies. it is necessary to strengthen an area of stable neighbours, which would favourably affect the internal security of the union and would be a precondition for the prosperity and economic development of those states. the south caucasus countries have some features that are indispensable for the success of european projects in key areas such as energy and transport. the geopolitical significance of these countries is linked to their strategic positioning in relation to the energy resources of central asia. the region is essential as a transit area and represents one of the few corridors that can allow the union to diversify its access to energy resources from the caspian region. possible alternative gas transit routes from the caspian sea and pipeline projects crossing the black sea depend to a large extent on stability in the south caucasus. the european union is not the only actor strategically looking at this area. in parallel, two other important international pioneers have developed consolidated initiatives in the region as well as long-term strategies. the united states has an energy security action plan that proposes to initiate and develop alternative routes for the transport of gas and oil. russia is already proposing and financing its own projects, consolidating its position in the central asian market. in the current context, where the importance of the energy issue and dependence on russia have become evident, the low level of european union involvement in the area may lead to negative consequences for all member states in the future. the european union must develop without delay a common energy security policy in which the member states renounce their individual interests and in which it is absolutely vital that the countries of the south caucasus be part of it.
member states and the commission should accelerate the implementation of the priority trans-european transport projects on axes 7, 18, 22 and 21 and their progressive integration with traceca and the 5 axes defined in the commission communication no 32 of 2007 on the extension of the main trans-european transport axes to neighbouring countries. the eu's black sea dimension similar to the nordic dimension must be based on equal partnerships and adequate infrastructure to develop priority projects in energy, nuclear research and safety, transport, tourism and combating climate change. i believe that the economic development of the black sea member states requires the central and western parts of the european union to be connected to the black sea coast by highways and high-speed railways. the european union must promote a common maritime policy in the black sea region. in this way, environmental protection, coastal development, maritime research, transport and tourism will be tackled in an integrated manner.
the reporter. − thank you, by the way, and i thank all the speakers for their consistent speeches, which once again highlighted important aspects of cooperation in the black sea region. i fully agree with the need to develop a separate policy, indeed a strategy, for the black sea and i reiterate its importance. i am also pleased to be organising an interministerial conference on black sea policy and i hope that the outcome of this conference will already be concrete and much more firm steps in all areas of cooperation in the black sea and between the countries of the black sea region and the european union. i do not want to go into too much detail; certainly, the discussions were very interesting, but one idea remains that i think is important: that this synergy and cooperation policy in the black sea must not exclude new prospects for accession. dialogue with institutionalised civil society is very important because, indeed, institutions can be built, but only with people, and people can be able to drive real change.
the report may give the impression that we are talking about the absence of women in the industry. it's about this too. however, he draws attention primarily to their presence. they are present in low-wage jobs and industries, they are the majority where there are no unions and therefore the guarantees offered by collective agreements; they are found in vulnerable industries, in massive and rapid relocations. they're present in the workplace, but not in leadership positions. they work, but they don't decide. we talk about what's missing in this report, but we also talk about what they have. they have education but no qualifications; they have occupational diseases but they are not recognized as such; they have the will to learn after 40 years, but they have nowhere to do it. they become mothers and have no daycare. men become fathers too and they don't have day care. but they have husbands. what's to be done? the existing regulations, the reports we have produced, the european commission's gender equality roadmap show that we know what needs to be done. what we and the commission need to remember, but especially what we need to remind the member states, is that citizens, especially women, do not measure our effectiveness by the number of decisions we take, but by the ability and the will to put them into practice. and this one is missing.
when we talk about the role of women in industry, we have to talk about education, research and entrepreneurship. i made a presentation to the committee on women's rights on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the role of women in industry. fifteen percent of people with higher education are women. in 2006, women accounted for 33% of all european researchers and only 18% of researchers in the private sector. it should be noted, however, that only 28% of female researchers have children. in industry, wage income is higher, especially in the oil industry, in the chemical industry, in transportation, in electricity, in the machine industry. however, there is a gender pay gap at european level (approximately 20% for corporate managers and 19% for engineers). 34% of women working in industry have children and it should be noted that only 20% of entrepreneurs in industry are women. so we need to be concerned about education, training and, above all, child care facilities.
in writing. while appreciating the concerns of the environment committee, we are concerned about the limited relevance of the indicators used in the algorithm for calculating the allocation of pollutant emission allowances. it is necessary to set correction coefficients to reflect differences in investment potential between member states with similar gdp but different socioeconomic outlooks. the level of investment needs certainly varies exponentially according to the stage of development at which a given region of europe is situated. the national budgetary effort required to keep emissions within the allocated limits will thus be burdened by the investment budget for re-technologization, and in economically deprived areas it will become an obstacle to alignment with european environmental standards. the principle of european solidarity can only be respected in its spirit if countries and regions whose development is below the european average are treated with due regard for their specific stage. in the name of the same principle, i hope that those of my german colleagues who have criticised the decision to relocate the nokia factory will find out and openly tell the workers who lost their jobs in bochum that the wages of romanian workers are ten times lower than theirs and that a liter of milk or a liter of petrol costs as much as in germany.
in writing. the european commission's efforts to propose to member states and citizens a viable programme for achieving energy and environmental objectives have our full support. but we must take account of the financial and economic aspects of these proposals. the measure to revise the rules for approving state aid for environmental projects is necessary. with some industries currently highly polluting but the cost of adapting to clean technologies is not economically viable, state aid of 60 to 100% may be a viable solution. mining is one such industry, which greatly needs carbon capture and storage technologies. as regards the commission's proposal to launch 12 coal and natural gas power plant projects using carbon capture and storage technology, i would like to reaffirm romania's capacity to host such a plant. the jiu valley basin is a region that offers the advantage of vast mineral resources as well as the proximity of operating power plants.
in writing. the eu countries are facing the challenges of climate change, increasing dependence on energy imports and high energy prices. the european union's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020, in particular through measures in the energy sector, is therefore an important step in the fight against global warming. accelerating the shift to low-carbon energy by increasing the market share of biofuels and renewable energy sources will encourage innovation and increase industrial competitiveness. member states with developing economies, in particular bulgaria and romania, will be allowed an increase of 20% in emissions from 2005 levels in industries outside the ets, calculated on the basis of gross domestic product. in this way, the european union is showing solidarity, ensuring that poorer countries have the opportunity to catch up with those whose economies are far more developed.
in writing. we welcome the initiative of the president of the commission to come to the european parliament to present proposals on energy and climate change. on this occasion, we ask the european commission to pay greater attention and take all necessary measures to accelerate the implementation of the nabucco project, which is of major importance for guaranteeing the security of the eu's natural gas supply.
in writing. i believe that the fight against climate change can only be won if we succeed in ensuring global solidarity. the european union should include climate change in all its agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral. it is also important that adaptation to climate change takes account of and enables the sustainable economic development of the union. the promotion of biodiesel crops must not be at the expense of food crops. sustainable development of transport can contribute to reducing climate change. member states should choose an energy mix that is as low-polluting as possible. i ask the commission to review the financial perspective for 2007-13 and the 2008 budget, community programmes and policies, and key legislation to take account of adaptation to climate change. the commission should recognise the importance of national, local and regional authorities in the development and implementation of climate change adaptation measures and the need to inform them with authority and provide them with the necessary support. i believe that a framework programme should be developed at eu level to reduce the risk of desertification and the risk of water scarcity.
mr president, the separation in fact of gaza from the west bank on the one hand complicates even further an already complex picture. but, on the other hand, it simplifies it. let me explain myself regarding the latter. first, it facilitated dialogue between israel and the palestinian authority from the west bank. second, it contained an islamic radical militancy allowing a clear approach to it because, on the one hand, we have the hamas radical leaders and the rest of the population, and, in that respect, it is no secret whom we have to support. third, arising from that, instead of two factors in the equation (one very clear – israel – the other, the palestinians, a bit blurred), now we have three clearly defined factors – gaza included – in an equation with a multiplication sign between its factors, meaning that if any one is zero, the product is zero.
madam president, commissioner, postal services are extremely important for the economic and social life of human communities. we must therefore guarantee the accessibility of postal services, but above all we must ensure the quality of these services. the full liberalisation of the postal services market, including for items weighing less than 50 grams, will allow for increased competition, the emergence of new operators and the creation of jobs. but i want to stress a few important points. first, it is essential that universal service be guaranteed and that every citizen be able to receive his mail, whether he lives in a mountain-top hamlet or on an island. secondly, we must ensure decent working conditions for workers in this sector and, above all, there are social guarantees for jobs and incomes. thirdly, in order for member states to guarantee universal service, it is essential that they define as soon as possible the way in which universal service is financed. the directive gives flexibility to the member states. fourth, as we are increasingly living in a digital world, it is essential that postal operators diversify their activities to offer electronic services. some member states may have an additional two years until full liberalisation of postal services. however, regardless of when liberalisation takes place, it is essential that postal operators have an efficient management system to guarantee a high quality of these services.
in writing. the common position respects the requirements put forward by parliament in its vote at first reading and the amendments of the members of the committee on employment and social affairs. however, the commission has not yet provided a clear study of the impact of postal liberalisation on employment. in the opinion drawn up in the commission, i asked for a study to assess the practical impact of the measure on the more than 5 million jobs created by or dependent on the postal services of the member states. this study is facilitated by the existence of some eu countries where the liberalisation of postal services has already taken place, such as the united kingdom, sweden and the netherlands. the experience of these countries so far does not indicate that liberalisation has led to an increase in the number and quality of jobs in this sector. i believe that safeguards should be taken into account in cases where the entry of new postal services companies into the market will lead to massive job losses. one such instrument to which companies and member states could be affected by globalisation is the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. the full liberalisation of postal services in the member states of the european union will have a positive impact not only on users and consumers of postal services, who will benefit from new, innovative services and reduced postal rates, but also on the economies of the member states as a whole. the draft directive under discussion is only complete in its current form, which allows for the extension of the deadline for the full opening of the postal services market in some member states. romania is among the beneficiaries of the new provisions decided by the european parliament. the romanian universal service provider is currently undergoing a restructuring process, according to a programme decided by the romanian government for the period 2007-2010, after which preparations for the liberalisation of the postal services market will take place. this succession in time will benefit the romanian consumer, leading to better quality services and an affordable price for them in view of the liberalisation of the market after 1 january 2013.
climate change is beginning to be felt by all of us, no matter what continent, no matter what country. we're facing floods, areas that are beginning to become deserts, diminishing freshwater resources, forest fires, melting glaciers, changing flora. the united nations has proclaimed 2008 as the international year of the earth. the bali conference is crucial for a post-kyoto agreement to combat climate change. the european union must remain a leader in action to both mitigate and adapt to climate change. the existing community legislation and the new legislative package recently presented by the commission to promote renewable energy are concrete examples of action. i am glad we are having this discussion on the occasion of the european sustainable energy week. transport is responsible for 30% of global energy consumption and urban transport for generating 70% of pollutant emissions. the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme is an important step. the efficiency of urban transport and the promotion of less polluting rail and sea transport must be part of the community's objectives. we call on the commission and the council of the european union to include climate change among the priorities, both at community level and in the union's external relations.
member of the commission. - madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the honourable members of the european parliament for their very positive comments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these views have since been abandoned, with the ratification of kyoto in australia and the united states - both at federal and state level - no longer accepting them. i also heard an inaccuracy, which i am sure the member of parliament has put forward in good faith, that the united states is doing better than the european union. but what emerges from the data available for 2005 is that the united states alone has increased its greenhouse gas emissions by 16.4%, while the european union is on track to meet the kyoto target, and already in 2005 was altogether 7.9% below the 1990 level. there is therefore a big difference between what the european union is achieving and what the united states is not achieving, which, in particular, under the kyoto protocol, which it signed but did not ratify, had to reduce its emissions by 7%. but instead of -7% they were in 2005 +16.4%, and the european union has a target of -8% and is going to achieve it. it is already below the level of 1990. i would also like to say that the biggest problem in ireland is the huge increase in carbon dioxide emissions from transport. in the last few years, we've had a 160% increase in greenhouse gas emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. new zealand, for example, has developed special foods that go a long way in reducing carbon dioxide emissions. ladies and gentlemen, the bali action plan, which was agreed last december, is an important step forward in the discussions on the future international regime on climate change. the key achievement was that we have now started formal negotiations and that there are clear references to the required level of ambition to tackle climate change, with regard to the climate agreement covering the period after 2012. the united nations convention on climate change has approved the creation of a new ad hoc group to negotiate long-term cooperation action with the ad hoc working group already operating under the kyoto protocol. all parties to the united nations convention, including the united states, will participate in these negotiations. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. we need to find ways to accelerate and make even more environmentally friendly flows of finance and investment - which will benefit clean technology and efforts to adapt to the inevitable impacts of climate change - with flows coming from the public sector and to a large extent from the private sector. this is a central element of the negotiations, but let me also stress the importance of taking action as soon as possible and already now in the european union. as your resolution rightly points out, we need to intensify our efforts, among other things, to integrate climate considerations into our development policy. i am convinced that we can also achieve even more in terms of trade and investment, including at bilateral and regional level. further mobilisation of the private sector is also vital and needs to be further exploited. the question of preventing deforestation is undoubtedly very important and, as you rightly said, with relatively small investments we can have benefits both in combating climate change and in preventing biodiversity loss. we will move in this direction, since the issue of forest clearance can be resolved even before the agreement is concluded or the new agreement enters into force. so it is a very important area that we have to deal with. the commission is determined to help the european union maintain its leadership in these new discussions on the future climate regime and i count heavily on your support in this regard. we are only at the beginning of the negotiations on post-2012 climate change policies. the european union's leadership on climate change will be crucial to ensure that this dialogue continues and produces positive results. but we must always bear in mind that our leadership depends on and is affected by the policies and measures we adopt within the european union. the implementation of climate policies in the european union and the swift adoption of the climate and energy package will continue to be of crucial importance if we are to maintain our leadership and bring international efforts to tackle climate change to a successful conclusion. i would like to stress again that i look forward to close and continuous cooperation with parliament in this process.
in writing. i recently received a paper on climate change that we all feel and feel. the document, titled "don't fight, adapt - we should give up futile attempts to combat climate change", was sent as an open letter to the un secretary-general. as the title of the open letter suggests, 100 scientists are asking us to embrace climate change, not with resignation, but with enthusiasm, arguing that co2 is indispensable to photosynthesis. without being an expert in chemistry or biology, i cannot help but notice that in recent years, climate change has been dramatic. i can't help but notice that instead of four seasons, we've only got two. i can't accept the idea that in 10 years, i'll be skiing indoors on artificial snow on a 100-meter runway. i can't accept the idea that in 10 years, i'll have to go to the beach from 5 to 7 in the morning because otherwise i'll risk skin cancer. and then i think about it this way: they're healthy with their photosynthesis, i want to ski, i want to go to the beach, i want to live a normal life.
in writing. the bali conference culminated in the adoption of a roadmap to a safer future climate, a new negotiation process to be completed in 2009 and to relaunch global warming negotiations after 2012, when the first phase of the kyoto protocol expires. the outcome of the conference was the adoption of important decisions that are the basic elements of this 'roadmap', such as the launch of the adaptation fund, the transfer of green technology from rich countries to poor countries, and measures to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries. combating deforestation is one of the key priorities of the european union's environmental policy, and coordinating member states' efforts will help in the fight against global warming. fortunately, the bali action plan also contains strategies for reducing environmental disasters and means to address climate change-related loss and damage in developing countries. the european union played an important role in the successful conclusion of this conference, ensuring that the latest scientific recommendations from the intergovernmental panel on climate change were taken into account.
thank you very much, mr. president. regional development and cohesion funds are very important for the new member states, as they have very significant differences between regions. my country, romania, has the potential to apply for more than 20 billion euros for the development of its regions by 2013. one year after our accession to the eu, experience shows that the use of funds for regional development is improving, but we are still far from the desired performance. it is essential for the romanian regions to increase their capacity to raise funds, to use them efficiently and to settle them properly. to this end, romania needs tools such as an efficient and increasingly decentralised system of administrative institutions, redistributed economic development regions, as the current regions are not functional, not efficient, and therefore new regions must be created from the bottom up after appropriate social consultation, led by elected regional governments. the redistribution of economic development regions in romania is urgent. thank you very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in most member states more than half the population is overweight or obese. more worryingly, over 400 000 children become overweight in europe each year. one of the issues to be considered in the fight against obesity is the effective labelling of food. unfortunately, in europe, labelling still does not provide the consumer with the clear information he needs to make healthy and safe choices. in this context, i welcome the european commission's proposal to revise the directive on food labelling and, by implication, to introduce a simplified labelling system, printed on the front of food packaging. i regret, however, that the commission proposal does not take into account a multi-colour labelling system which would clearly indicate to consumers the different nutritional values of products, namely low, medium or high nutritional value. labelling should bring benefits to both producers and consumers, and a well-informed consumer will make wise choices about their daily diet.
mr president, as the european parliament's rapporteur on regional cooperation in the black sea, i wish to express my concern about bulgaria's agreement of 18 january 2008 to participate in and support the russian south stream energy project. this project presents a double challenge to the energy security of the european union. first, the support of the project by a member state of the european union is contrary to the primary objective of diversifying the european union's energy sources. the completion of the south stream project would only increase the european union's energy dependency on the same source. second, by its very existence, the south stream project undermines the realisation of the nabucco project, a project considered to be of strategic importance for the success of the european energy security policy. i would remind you that this agreement between bulgaria and russia came about in the context of the european parliament's vote by a large majority on the report on cooperation in the black sea region.
i would not have wanted my first one minute speech to be on a negative theme, but what happened last week on the eastern border of the european union should set off a warning for us all. on january 21 and 22, groups of ukrainian citizens blocked access to cars at the siret-porubnoe border crossing, on the border between ukraine and romania, being dissatisfied with the fact that to enter the romanian territory, they need a visa, they need a paid visa, while the romanians can travel without a visa on the ukrainian territory since january 1, 2008. romania, as a member state, must comply with community rules on the visa regime for non-eu citizens and cannot adopt, in any form, a preferential procedure for ukraine. that is why i believe that the european parliament and the european commission must call on ukraine to take more substantive action in the sense of affirming ukraine's european vocation... (the president cut off the speaker)
the free movement of goods is one of the cornerstones of the european union. i would like to draw parliament's attention to the state of play in romania in respect of this fundamental principle. the government has introduced, since the date of accession to the european union, a tax levied on the first registration of motor vehicles. the government announced that it would abandon this tax, considered by the european commission as not in conformity with the community acquis, in order to avoid the continuation of the infringement procedure opened against romania. the romanian authorities, however, refuse to refund the tax paid to citizens, even though the case law of the european court of justice establishes the obligation to do so. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of european citizenship and equal rights for all citizens of the european union will only be fully realized when all the rights defined by the treaty are transposed and respected in practice by all the member states. i'm here to inform you that i've initiated a written statement and i'm asking all of my colleagues to sign this statement so that this situation will never happen again.
through the lisbon strategy, the european union set itself the objective of becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy. increasing investment in research, developing the information society and creating highly skilled jobs are among the objectives of the lisbon strategy. unfortunately, too few member states have invested 3% of their gross domestic product in research. the private sector should provide two-thirds of these funds. today, when we talk about reducing climate change, about the sustainability of energy sources, about cleaner vehicles, about increasing the energy efficiency of different industries, about the shift to digital technology, investing in research must be one of our priorities. unfortunately, despite the national or community funding allocated to research, there is still a very weak link between fundamental research and the application of its results in industry. i ask the european commission to develop a strategy and an action plan so that the results of research can benefit all european citizens. i am convinced that the development of applied research will allow the creation of highly skilled jobs and the development of the knowledge-based economy.
mr. president, i have to go. i'm speaking in my native language, hungarian. i can't do it at home yet. i'm glad it's finally possible here. it is up to all of us to reduce the recent increase in inter-ethnic tensions over the roma issue and to curb the spread of anti-gypsyism. we need to find a solution to economic migration as a matter of urgency. but the eu roma strategy can also serve as a basis for developing a new and traditional common national minority policy within the eu. kosovo reminded us once again that the issue of human and minority rights has become an international, european issue. we are responsible for what happens inside and outside the eu. today, in one of our member states, it is not community rights that are being heated up, but community crimes. in romania, the language law deprives hundreds of thousands of citizens of their citizenship. we speak out because we all have a responsibility to our country, to our neighbours, to europe as a whole. this responsibility is present and will be present not only in the elections, but in the day-to-day work, even in the reassuring solution to the rubble issue. thank you, sir.
mr president, the roma problem is a problem of the entire european union, not just romania. the european union has allocated a lot of funds to promote equal opportunities. funds have been allocated for roma segregation; however, problems remain. i believe that the implementation of these european funds needs to be monitored, but above all the sustainability of these projects that have received funding. mentality is a hard thing to change. but education has an important role in changing mindsets. that is why i believe that additional funds are needed for intercultural education, for the organisation of cultural and artistic activities, sports, second chance education, health education, which will lead to the integration of roma into society in all the countries of the european union, but, i repeat, these programmes must be monitored, and above all their sustainability.
in writing. i would like to welcome the development of this report and the comprehensive approach it proposes for the field of energy efficiency in the european union, both from a thematic and geographical point of view. it is important that we are talking today about an action plan and its details, which shows that we have taken concrete steps in this direction. as rapporteur for regional cooperation in the black sea, i would like to underline the importance of ensuring energy efficiency in this region in order to achieve the objective of energy security and reducing dependence on energy supply sources. in parallel, i appreciate the international approach and the consideration of global challenges. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is aware of russia's future inability to meet domestic and contractual demand for natural gas and expresses its concern in this regard. this allows us to reiterate to the european institutions the importance of two major objectives: the increasing substitution of energy imports in the eu with other sources and efficient methods of ensuring european energy security, and the need to promote energy reform in the black sea region and in the countries neighbouring the eu in order to create a transparent and sustainable energy sector.
the efforts of the commission and the council in the area of the free movement of persons in europe were concretised by the enlargement of the schengen area in december 2007. in the area of illegal migration, legislative proposals on common standards for the repatriation of illegal immigrants from third countries and on sanctions against employers of illegal immigrants will certainly help to reduce this phenomenon. on legal migration, the commission proposed a legislative plan, starting with legislative proposals to parliament covering the conditions of entry and residence of highly qualified workers and the introduction of the single permit procedure for third-country nationals. in connection with these matters, i would like to draw attention to something which i consider extremely important: there are still transitional measures imposed by some member states to restrict the movement of labour from other member states of the european union. it is very good to promote a common policy on legal immigration from third countries, but it is not normal to have restrictions on citizens from within the union at the same time. we cannot talk about the creation of an area of freedom if there are restrictions on the free movement of labour. it considers that the need to apply the directives on legal migration from third countries, while removing restrictions applied to some member states, is obvious. this can be achieved gradually by introducing the condition that member states applying the legal migration directive annul, where appropriate, decisions restricting the movement of labour from other eu countries covered by that directive. in addition, the concept of community preference must be applied so that european citizens have priority in meeting their labour market needs. moreover, i believe that a distinction should also be made between third countries, namely that citizens from neighbouring countries, and especially those covered by the neighbourhood policy, should have priority. and i hope that the discussion between mr frattini and mr deprez at the beginning of our debate has a purpose, so that our work this year is as positive as possible.
in writing. − this resolution is a strategy to coordinate and promote the efforts of the european union states to improve the situation of the roma population, which faces a number of difficulties related to discrimination, marginalisation, social exclusion and severe poverty. the european union's concern about minorities, including disadvantaged social groups, is also a response to the expansion into the former communist space of a large part of the roma population. this is a problem for the european union, not just for the countries of central and eastern europe. i voted for this resolution because it draws the attention of the member states and the european institutions to the need to implement measures to create a suitable social and political environment for the social inclusion of roma. discrimination against them is widespread in areas of public and private life, including access to public office, education, the labour market, health services and housing. the governments of the member states must commit themselves to reducing the unacceptable gaps between the roma population and the rest of society, so that the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms on which the european union is founded are fully respected.
for the upcoming festival organised by the european parliament in the framework of intercultural dialogue, each country was asked to submit a film on this theme. as far as i understand, romania's original proposal was not accepted on the grounds that it was not up to the task, only that the production that replaces it, namely the film california dreaming, has even greater shortcomings. the first is that it is even less relevant, despite its premiere in cannes, mystifying reality and altering the image of my country. while all other films translate intercultural dialogue on a personal, human level, california dreaming relates an imaginary case of an american transport through romania, stopped by local authorities, which ends in a civil war. in addition, the film is tinged with obscene language, explicit sex and violence, a unique case in the festival. i don't think these are virtues of intercultural dialogue. but the biggest drawback is that, apparently, the choice of this film does not belong to the romanian side, but to the officials of the european parliament. if true, this is a serious matter, as an apolitical concept such as intercultural dialogue is being deliberately politicized for obscure reasons, damaging the image of a member state of the european union. i therefore ask the leadership of the european parliament to look into the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of february the european commission published its preliminary report on the state of judicial reform in romania. this year's final report is due in june and will decide whether or not the safeguard clause applies. however, i do not think this is the case, given that the institutions criticised for lagging behind can during this period solve problems in the four areas monitored. the application of the safeguard clause would mean the non-recognition of court judgments in the member states, which will be reflected on the citizens and legal persons of romania who are not at fault that the responsible institutions, the government and parliament, do not meet their obligations. the application of the safeguard clause must be designed in such a way that it is not directed against romanian citizens, because it is natural that those guilty of failure to fulfil their responsibilities, and not the romanian citizen, should be held responsible.
thank you, mr president. in my earlier speech i mentioned that i can speak my native language here, but i cannot do so at home. the itt was, of course, the european parliament, and the home, of course, the national parliament. of course, we can use our mother tongue outside of parliament, in some higher education institutions, although in a much smaller proportion of the population. hungarians, who make up 6.4% of the population, are present in only 4% of higher education institutions and only 1.6% study in their mother tongue. hungarian children in the eastern part of romania can learn hungarian again after about 50 years, but in some villages only outside the school building or even not at all. nevertheless, the statement by commissioner orban on the so-called 'two mother tongues' is encouraging. we hope that the majority peoples of the european countries will henceforth consider it important not only to learn the state language, but also that those living with them may preserve their mother tongue and study in their own educational institutions at all levels, and use their mother tongue in public administration, the courts and the legislature. 2008 is the year of intercultural dialogue, let it be! thank you, sir.
european citizenship offers a number of rights and freedoms throughout the eu. this is why, by signing the treaty establishing the european community, the member states have undertaken to prohibit all forms of discrimination. however, a few days ago i was informed of a case of a romanian citizen who was refused car rental in brussels on the grounds that he was a romanian national. the employee's refusal was based simply on an internal arrangement of the car rental office in question. in recent days i have learned from various citizens of my country of numerous other cases of discrimination on the criterion of romanian nationality. ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty as representatives of over 490 million europeans to sound the alarm. by engaging in active dialogue with our fellow citizens, we can help to prevent such incidents in the future. i believe that it is the duty of the european union as a democratic entity to promote respect for the rights of all citizens of the union by initiating european anti-discrimination education and information programmes. i also ask the european commission to verify whether member states are complying with their obligations under the treaties on discrimination on grounds of nationality.
on 4 february 2008, the romanian parliament ratified the treaty on the reform of the european union. we welcome this ratification in the romanian parliament. the reform treaty reaffirms the principle of equality of its citizens, gives legal force to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, introduces the review of subsidiarity by national parliaments, recognises the principle of universal access to services of general economic interest, underlines the importance of energy security and reinforces the spirit of solidarity between member states in this field, and imposes special measures to combat climate change. the introduction of the concept of territorial cohesion and its recognition as an objective led the european parliament's committees, which play an important role in defining structural and cohesion policies, to have increased activity after the ratification of the treaty. the committee on transport and tourism believes that the amending treaty formalises the codecision procedure already used in the maritime and air transport sectors and provides a legal basis for the european parliament to propose support measures to strengthen the identity of the tourism sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial instruments of the european union's cohesion policy are of major importance in reducing disparities between the regions of europe. in the case of the newest member states of the union, cohesion policy funds make a crucial contribution to ensuring the future development of the less prosperous regions in these countries. the absorption rate of these funds in the new member states is continuously increasing. the union must adjust the resources allocated through cohesion policy instruments to the reality of an enlarged union. after the accession of romania and bulgaria, it is necessary to guarantee an increase in the financial resources of cohesion policy after 2013. the increase in cohesion funds is a logical consequence of the recent enlargement of the union, it will prove the consistency of the union's policy towards europe's less developed regions and it will constitute a strong political signal to the new member states.
congratulations on your report to mr. musotto. i believe that many of the irregularities in the period 2003-2006 would be supported by the change in the presentation rule of framework programme 6, for example, from framework 5. under section 5, section b was anonymous and sanctioned any reference to the country and whoever was behind the project. within 6 and 7 anonymity is gone. is it possible to stop using this system of service before projects in framework 8?
, in writing. collaboration between the eu institutions in the fight against terrorism must be perfect in the face of the increase in this phenomenon. i believe that terrorism has become the main enemy of european values, stability and world peace. look back to the events of september 11, 2001, or those in madrid a few years ago, and you have the perfect configuration of a painting that expresses horror, fear and suffering. the european institutions had to develop a strategy to identify, reduce and eliminate this phenomenon. we need to start a deeper study of this: what causes it, what keeps terrorists so zealous and capable of giving their lives to become martyrs, whose martyrs they are, how they are recruited, who funds them and how to intervene in some way to discourage this phenomenon. so in order to find out all this and to master it, in the interests of the eu, the european institutions must be concerned with the development of this strategy. in this way, the eu will send a signal of unity and strength to the world.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr guardans cambó, and the committee on international trade very much indeed for this very constructive report. it confirms that we share a common vision, both on the importance of a proactive market access strategy for european businesses and workers, and on the basic principles that should underlie this strategy. the priorities that are set out here – smes, barriers to services and investment, public procurement and ipr – are very much my priorities. that is the same message that the european council sent last june, and again in response to our progress report last month. we have built a strong new consensus on the importance of this work. at the heart of the global europe strategy that we launched in 2006 was the commitment both to keeping our own markets in europe open, and also to refocusing our resources on creating new opportunities for european workers and companies in the markets of our main trading partners. we can do that above all through a successful wto trade deal, but we can also do it through a new generation of free-trade agreements. it also means taking a more hard-headed approach to modern trade barriers, and especially non-tariff barriers which operate not at the border, but behind the border. europe’s workers and companies can compete almost anywhere if they are given a fair opportunity and a level playing field on which to compete. our job is to support them and provide them with a platform to do that, which means focusing on the barriers, conditions and discriminatory regulatory practices that operate against them and deny them that fair opportunity to compete and to trade. the challenge in 2007 has been to put this policy into practice. in particular, we have focused on strengthening our resources on the ground in our most important markets by creating market access teams that bring together a business, a member state and commission staff and experts. these are the people who really know the markets and who have a feel for the local politics and a clear sense of both what is necessary and what is possible. this has produced good results. in the last six months we have scored important successes in south america, central asia, south asia, japan and russia. we have also stepped up our cooperation with the united states on market access issues, which has been instrumental in some of these successes. we have also introduced an on-line complaint register for eu companies and launched real-time and monthly reporting on market access work. i therefore mildly disagree with the suggestion in the report that the commission has not done enough to bring out the full potential of this partnership during the launch phase. that does not mean either that i consider the collaboration to be perfect or that i feel in the least bit complacent about what we could do differently, and even better, than we are at the moment. i agree that this new strategy is a dynamic process which requires constant vigilance and constant commitment. frankly, it also needs some more high-profile advocates of what we are doing and how we are setting about pursuing our objectives, both in this house and also among the member states – people who believe in economic openness, but who are also not afraid to speak up for reciprocal market opening, especially amongst those emerging economies whose own growth is being driven by their access to our markets. that is right, that is fair and that is the principle of international trade that we believe in – that whilst we remain open to others they too should progressively open their markets to us if the principle of international trade is going to be well and properly served. i agree with the rapporteur when he calls on all stakeholders to participate actively in this partnership. we are continuing to improve our coordination work on the ground with member states and industry, but we need these experts to step up as well if we are to achieve our potential. on the question of resources, i am grateful for the additional staff that the budgetary authorities have allocated to dg trade. we will continue to push for more resources for the most important markets in asia and, for example, in brazil. in the mean time we have strengthened our staffing on market access activities in brussels. finally, i also take note of your request to receive an annual report from the commission. along with the regular reporting, i would be pleased to discuss the annual activity report with parliament. so, my thanks again to the rapporteur and to parliament for its engagement in this very important work. it is vital that we maintain our energy and engagement in 2008 and beyond. this priority means a lot to me and to my services; it means a lot to our businesses in europe and for the employment they are able to create for our workers, flowing from increased market access and from the strengthening of world trade that is at the heart of our trade policy strategy for a global europe. (applause)
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, commissioner, the european union's strategy for market access was launched in 1996. the commission has developed a free service that provides european exporters with an up-to-date, public electronic register of market access conditions in some 100 countries. in 2007, the euro area trade surplus was eur 28.3 billion, compared with a deficit of eur 9.3 billion in 2006. the eu-27 recorded a deficit of eur 185.7 billion in 2007, compared with a deficit of eur 192.1 billion in 2006. so, at community level, measures must be taken to make the member states outside the euro area more competitive. we believe that market access will be facilitated by promoting the values and principles of the european union to third countries by promoting open markets, by bringing social and environmental standards closer together and by ensuring the protection of intellectual property rights. investments in research, promotional campaigns to make available services and information to the public, improvement of the community information system on market access, interconnection of specific databases and training of specialists to support european enterprises must form part of the commission's partnership with the member states and with european enterprises.
let me make a few remarks on the ce marking. at present, it applies to any product that is covered by a european directive. as long as manufacturers can mark most products without any verification by a third authority or an independent body, this marking will not prove effective. that's the first problem. we therefore all agree that the current system of ce marking of products is not able to guarantee safety for european consumers. in fact, it was not even designed with the intention of being a safety mark. commissioner verheugen, you said last year that we would never have 100% product safety. that is why i am calling on the european commission to consider, in addition to closer market surveillance and stricter customs controls, tougher sanctions for companies that produce or import products that do not comply with eu rules and directives. let us not forget that the vast majority of european consumers think uninformedly when they consider that a product bearing the ce marking is made in europe or has been certified by an independent european body. that's the second problem. even commissioner verheugen feels that the current ce marking may be a little confusing. this is unacceptable and i therefore ask the european commission to launch information campaigns for european consumers so that they do not confuse the ce marking with a quality and safety mark. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that there must be a safety mark. whether the current ce marking is improved or whether there is an additional marking, the solution must be found as soon as possible. the internal market implies not only the free movement of products but also the adoption of effective measures to protect consumers.
in writing. − the guardans cambó report refers to the european union strategy to facilitate market access for european businesses. the european commission presented a communication early last year on a stronger partnership for market access for european exporters. the commission's proposed measures relate to the restructuring of the community information system providing market access information and services in some 100 countries, improved transparency and an information campaign, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, on the community services available to european exporters. i regret, however, that some of the amendments tabled by the group of the party of european socialists, which concerned public procurement, services and competition, were not voted on. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
in writing. i would like to welcome the fact that the future of europe continues to be a constant theme in the debates of this parliament. a common reflection is essential to ensure a prosperous and sustainable future for future generations of europeans. i believe that two main ideas should underpin this analysis and the concept of the european future: the future of the european citizen and the eu's role in the world. at home, therefore, the good of the citizen must guide all action at european level, and human rights and their full protection must be the determining vector of this. equally important are education as a prerequisite for a prosperous future, as well as policies for the promotion of young people and child protection, intercultural dialogue and mutual tolerance. both the lisbon strategy and the new reform treaty are key documents that need to be firmly put into practice. in the globalised and interdependent world of the 21st century, however, a truly prosperous future for europe is impossible without securing it worldwide. the eu thus has an obligation to contribute to global peace, stability and prosperity.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen,in the context of the debate on the future of europe, we must give due attention to the social category that best represents the idea of the future - young people - that is, the citizens of tomorrow of the european union. young people must be prepared to plan for their generation's future, and this requires knowledge of our common history, the stages of the formation and development of the european union. to build your future, you must know your past. we need the history of the union to be taught in schools, we need a european youth policy that is as coherent as possible and that clearly addresses the specific problems of young people. europe must now have a clear vision on education, the information society, intercultural dialogue and exchange between young people, youth employment and mobility, and the current problems of marginalised young people. a successful europe can only be built together, day by day.
mr president, one of the key recommendations of the european parliament is to combat protectionism both within and outside the eu. i firmly believe that protectionism undermines, rather than defends, citizens’ rights, but that europe should be looking at its own backyard first. our highest priority should now be the removal of protectionist barriers within the eu. in order to make the european single market a reality we need to enhance the four fundamental freedoms of the common market, especially the free movement of workers. our report acknowledges that many labour markets remain segmented and that worker mobility is still low. how surprising! have we forgotten that most citizens of the new member states still need a permit to work in other eu countries? four years after the ‘big bang’ enlargement we have seen no major disruption of labour markets in the older member states, and no influx to justify the transitional restrictions. on the contrary, the proliferation of complex national quotas and qualitative restrictions in member states is undermining the lisbon strategy, which aims to ensure flexible markets and a mobile labour force. we have only two years left to become the world’s most competitive economy, and to boost competitiveness and create more jobs and growth, but i am hopeful. in romania, my country, the average economic growth rate has been about 6% over the past five years, and the unemployment rate is down to 4%. we are now starting to have concerns about the lack of labour. opening frontiers to third-country workers is necessary, but our top priority should be to lift the eu’s internal barriers first. workers from the 12 new member states should be granted priority to go and work in any other eu member state, and the transitional arrangements should be removed. one cannot possibly justify calling for external workers while restrictions still apply to our citizens. restrictions are unjustifiable and incompatible with the lisbon strategy, and removing them is the only way to achieve a competitive and innovative europe.
mr president, commissioners, the european union is not just a common market based on competition, but we must build a social europe together. it is essential that we improve the quality of life in europe in the context of globalisation, demographic change and environmental challenges. by creating new, high-skilled and well-paid jobs and sustainable economic growth, the lisbon strategy is also a tool for building the new social europe. social europe must guarantee universal access to health and social security services, access to quality public services and improve social cohesion through the effective use of the structural and cohesion funds. regional development must also remain a priority in the period 2008-2010. it is proven that information and communication technology increases labour productivity. today, in transportation, in financial services, in public services, in education and health, we use computer systems and electronic communications networks. the 2004 european union statistics on innovation capacity showed that in bulgaria, romania and slovakia, companies with more than 10 employees had more than 36% of their revenues from the sale of innovative products and services; but we need to invest more in the knowledge economy, to increase investment in research and innovation and especially in applied research. this must become a priority for all member states. moreover, investment in research and innovation in technology parks or universities should also be encouraged by fiscal measures to increase private investment in research. we need to invest more in education, to promote tertiary education and lifelong learning. the lisbon strategy builds a union based on social justice and decent work. the economic security of all european citizens, social inclusion, the creation of childcare services, gender equality and the creation of a social market economy will make the union an economic and social model in the global context.
in writing. the fundamental objectives of the lisbon strategy cannot be achieved without developing competitiveness, taking into account all the global challenges of the moment (globalisation, climate change, fluctuations in financial markets, the opening up of international markets). to increase competitiveness, the eu must accelerate its efforts to build the knowledge society and continuously improve administrative capacity. the development of sustainable communities and coherence of sectoral and cross-sectoral policies cannot be achieved without a good exploitation of local and regional potential, by strengthening the competences of local and regional authorities, in full respect of diversity and by strengthening interregional and cross-border links and exchanges. romania has set out to pursue the convergence process and to reduce the gaps existing at the time of accession. its human and material resources are an important source of competitiveness for all member states, which is one of the main advantages of our country's accession to the union. the growth potential of the romanian economy, energy resources, natural resources in general, attractiveness and territorial accessibility are an asset for the interdependence of european economies and we count on the solidarity of the old member states so that, beyond short-term and temporary disagreements, romanian resources are valued at their true potential, for the benefit of the entire union.
ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for regional cooperation in the black sea, i would like to stress the major importance of interregional cooperation between central asia and the black sea area. i thank the rapporteur for taking my suggestions on this subject into account and i hope that both the commission and the council will make sustained efforts to put them into practice by implementing the new strategy for central asia. cooperation between the two regions and its strengthening is an objective for both the european union and the countries of central asia and the black sea. this is most explicitly seen in the energy and transport sectors, with central asia representing an important source of energy for the european union. i therefore welcome the fact that the report focuses on two key ideas in this direction. first, the development of transport routes and energy infrastructure connecting central asian sources to the black sea area and, finally, the european union is necessary as an important element in ensuring energy security and diversification in the european union. i stress the crucial importance of the nabucco project and i join the report in its call for greater attention to be given to its successful development. secondly, a sound energy policy also requires the creation of a transparent and competitive energy market. it is important that the european union encourages action in this direction, both by intensifying dialogue with the countries of central asia and the black sea region and by additional measures such as stimulating accession to the world trade organisation. these objectives, however, need to be integrated into a comprehensive strategy for central asia, focusing on stability and sustained development. for these reasons, in parallel with energy policy, it is very important to promote reform in all five republics, and human rights and good governance, education and continuing training must be essential elements of this.
ladies and gentlemen, i want to start by congratulating the reporters. really, this report is a very good one. despite the abandonment of the union's symbols and all the compromises made at the june european council and the intergovernmental conference, the lisbon treaty retains the most important innovations of the old constitutional treaty and is a major step forward in the reform of the european union. i am very pleased about the increased role of the european parliament and national parliaments in decision-making in the european union. my country, romania, was one of the first countries to ratify the treaty with a very large majority of the votes of the members of parliament. in my opinion, perhaps the most important of the conclusions of the report is number 10. even if the ratification of the treaty will take place in the national parliaments in almost all member states, with one exception, i believe that informing the citizens of the european union states is essential for the success of institutional reforms. it is the duty of the european institutions to inform citizens about this treaty. it is our duty, as each member of the european parliament, to go to our countries and explain to the citizens we represent here the advantages of the treaty of lisbon for the future of european integration.
mr president, the merits of the lisbon treaty have been mentioned and the progress it brings towards a real union of citizens was described. the need for its urgent ratification was also stressed. let me add to this two notes of concern. first, the market is globalised, organised crime is globalised, poverty is globalised and the waves of immigrants remind us of this reality every day. while car, computer, aircraft and steel companies merge, new or renewed global powers emerge. in spite of that, europe remains divided. the ongoing division on kosovo, which is portrayed by some as a battle between legalist and realist, is the most recent and frightening example, proving that peace and law in europe are not yet secure. against this background, the obsession for opt-out or opt-in arrangements is not a way to protect national sovereignty against so-called european imperialism but a way to condemn each of our member states to parochialist irrelevance and, ultimately, insecurity. my second concern: one has deleted from the treaty references to symbols, fearing that the european symbols could overshadow national ones. on the other hand, the lack of democratic participation of citizens in national life proves every day that our national myths are in a state of fatigue. the european coal and steel community was able to mobilise citizens not only by addressing their minds, but also by inspiring their hearts. it was a plan associated with a myth. the lisbon treaty is another excellent plan, but it lacks soul. this will not only weaken the capacity of the european union to inspire citizens but also the capacity of each member state to rehabilitate their national myths. for the rest, i fully share the ideas of the report and i commend the rapporteurs for their excellent work. i share all their views and i think they did a great job. i hope, however, that one day we all will be able to shout, ‘habemus tractatum rei publicae europae.’
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the report and underlining its fundamental value for the future of europe. it is important that the lisbon treaty focuses on the role of citizens and the responsibility of institutions. i therefore believe that this report shows that the european parliament is taking on its new role in the functioning of the european union. i reiterate my support for all the provisions of the treaty which stipulate a strengthened role for parliaments, both at national and european level. secondly, i cannot fail to mention the changes that the treaty of lisbon proposes in the field of the european union's foreign policy. translating them into action is crucial to strengthening european action in this direction. the main thrust of the report is therefore the call for ratification by all 27 member states. i am pleased that romania ratified the treaty in february 2008, becoming the fourth country to demonstrate its european vocation and its determination to contribute to the ever more prosperous future of the european union.
in writing. − the lisbon strategy resolution expresses the european parliament's desire to ensure a decent life for all european citizens by creating new, better-paid jobs, increasing investment in research, innovation and the information society. paragraph 37 of the resolution underlines the importance of transport policy in combating climate change and calls for the trans-european networks to be subject to an appropriate strategic assessment of their environmental impact. i voted for amendment no 12, as amended orally by the group of the party of european socialists, because it 'calls on the member states to ensure the preconditions for the social and economic participation of all and, in particular, to adopt regulations on, for example, minimum wages and other legal and binding arrangements for all or through collective agreements concluded in accordance with national traditions, which enable full-time workers to live decently on their income'. i voted for the motion for a resolution because i am convinced that the european union is not just a common market based on competition, but must be a social europe in which every citizen is integrated into economic and social activity and has a decent living.
in writing. − the european parliament's report on the integrated guidelines for growth and employment analyses the broad lines proposed by the european commission for the economic policies of the member states and the community for the period 2008-2010. i voted for recital 26, as proposed by the commission, because it underlines the need for 'a coordinated tax framework, including a tax regime favourable to companies, in particular smes, and geared to boosting growth and job creation'. i also voted for amendment no 23 because it calls for income and the way in which wealth is distributed to ensure that the benefits of economic growth are shared equitably. the amendment considers that the minimum wage in each country, based on gdp per capita, would be a way of guaranteeing that full-time workers can earn a living from their work, which should be considered as an element of the european social model. i therefore voted for this report in the belief that the economic security of all european citizens, social inclusion, gender equality and the creation of a social market economy will make the union an economic and social model in the global context.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 20 years of political and military confrontation, after 20 years of major errors in the balkans, we are asking ourselves whether the kosovo solution, the unilateral declaration of independence of the province of kosovo, is legal and timely. the kosovo solution is neither legal nor timely. it is not legal because no principle of international law justifies the unilateral declaration of independence of the province of kosovo. more recently, the secretary-general of the united nations was unable to find any answer to the question of whether the solution is legal or illegal, leaving a press conference at united nations headquarters. it's not even timely, because it sets a dangerous precedent. not for the member states of the european union, not for slovakia or romania, countries that have emancipated and modern minority legislation, but it sets a dangerous precedent for abkhazia, south ossetia and, especially, transnistria, where frozen conflicts date back to the kosovo conflict. but it also sets a dangerous precedent for the balkans sprska republic, for example for other regions inhabited by minorities in the balkans. it also sets a dangerous precedent for the european union. it is often said that the balkans produce more history than they can consume. it seems that this time the balkans have produced more history than the european union can consume. the proof is that we are divided here on the question of recognizing the independence of the province of kosovo. i can tell you that romania will not recognize the independence of the province of kosovo and the national approach is supported by the romanian delegation in the european people's party. we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in this room, here, what we have to do with serbia. her future is obviously european. but we don't know what we're going to do about kosovo. and i have to tell you, with all the permission you will give me, that the visa system alone, the liberalization of the visa system, will not be enough to lift this area of our europe.
mr president, the difference between the external actions of the eu and other international actors is respect for international legality and un decisions. i am afraid that, by encouraging and recognising the independence of kosovo outside the current body of international legality and the un, that defining characteristic of eu external actions becomes questionable, if not even untenable. i only hope that we will not live to regret the decision we have taken with respect to kosovo.
mr president, some claim that we should leave aside the issue of recognition of the state, when speaking about kosovo, and instead deal with recognition of the reality. the reality is that, after its statement of self-determination, kosovo is neither independent nor able, for long, to be an independent, sustainable state. it was a protectorate and it will remain a protectorate. the reality is that the european union is divided between the so-called realists and the so-called legalists. the reality is that, by calling kosovo a sui generis case, we are admitting that international law is either insufficient or inadequate and we are therefore finding a solution outside the law. this would lead us to replace the power of right with the power of might. i think this is neither the goal nor the basic value of this union.
in writing. i was personally present in pristina on sunday. it's rare for us to be present at the declaration of independence of a country. i'm here to send a message that, while this decision is painful for many, it was made under circumstances that show that we are not afraid. independence was proclaimed in the hotel where, years ago, the sign on the front door welcoming guests read: "no dogs and albanians allowed!" the process that launched kosovo's independence was not initiated by the eu. serbia started by not guaranteeing its citizens living in the territory the basic human rights, individual and community rights. the romanian democratic union (rmdsz) takes the view that romania should recognize kosovo's independence as soon as possible. those who are reluctant to acknowledge the status quo may also have troubling issues with minorities within their own country. since its formation, the rmdsz has wanted and still wants to fight for the rights of the transylvanian hungarians exclusively by political, parliamentary means, rejecting violent means. it should now be clear to everyone that the question of the individual and collective rights of traditional national minorities cannot be the internal affair of one country only. it is time to work out a single, binding agreement in the european union (eu) that will reassure minorities. the european union's main task is to help not only kosovo and serbia but the entire western balkans region in the area of stability and economic and social development.
in writing. i welcome the active participation and commitment of the european union in the search for a solution in kosovo. i am pleased to note that the kosovo parliament has taken responsibility for ensuring that kosovo respects the fundamental principles of democracy, equality of citizens and protection of minorities. i hope that solidarity will develop among the member states of the union in order to ensure effective participation by kosovo. solidarity between eu member states in relation to kosovo should be reflected in the recognition of kosovo's independence by the member states as soon as possible. the european union should support kosovo in its efforts to become a european democratic state. i welcome the fact that the union will continue to ensure a strong presence, as it will thus directly contribute to the stability of the western balkans. i hope that the serb minority in kosovo will be fully guaranteed the individual and collective rights necessary to remain in their homeland. the european union's commitment to kosovo is exemplary. we know that the situation of each european minority is unique and that there are no universally applicable solutions, but the union must play a role in ensuring the individual and collective rights of minority communities by enhancing the effectiveness of democratic dialogue and political consultation between the majority and the minority through its influence. it is essential for minority communities in the member states to have a legal framework for the protection of minorities in the union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the castex report is a very important report for the future of europe and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on its contents. a correct demographic policy involves a basic question: not to set future generations with almost impossible tasks, given the conditions that are foreseen for the coming decades. in short, we must find solutions that are adapted to the present, but above all to the future. european demography is a problem throughout the union, but i would like to draw attention to the fact that the area i have the honour to represent has acute demographic problems. indeed, the socio-cultural realities resulting from the long communist experience have directly influenced the demographic processes of the states of eastern europe, a concrete case being that of romania. the answer to the demographic challenge is simple at first sight: member states need to rapidly revise their demographic policies to eliminate the negative consequences of population decline and ageing. while the solutions are not always as simple as the questions, i would nevertheless like to underline the importance of point 10 of the report, which calls on member states to take action to create quality and affordable childcare services in line with the barcelona objectives, so that by 2010 member states create services that allow for the care of at least 90% of children aged 3 years and up to school age and at least 33% of children under 3 years. it's a generous and necessary goal at the same time. i believe that direct financial support in the form of cash is a solution, but only for the time being, so the focus should be on providing support to the parent in the relationship with the employer and on quality and affordable childcare and education services, both with a view to ensuring reconciliation of family and professional life. the european institutions and member states are beginning to recognise the importance of demographic policies, but this is not enough. we need a first step, an accurate record of the demographic situation in the european union. (the president cut off the speaker)
ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to highlight the quality of mrs castex's report, a report on a subject which is crucial for the future of the european social model and for economic growth in the european union. i would also like to welcome the presence of commissioner spidla and his focus on social issues. i thank mrs. castex, especially for the attention paid to the status of women and their dignity, respect for their rights and civil liberties. i don't think i need to remind you of the tragedies of romanian women during the communist period, when abortion was illegal, the human tragedies generated by abortions that romanian women themselves caused with primitive means. the film that won the 2007 palme d'or at cannes, by a romanian, cristian mungiu, offered a real picture of this genuine national trauma that romania has faced, a situation that, i know, seems hard to understand in a normal world. the countries of eastern europe experienced a real demographic shock after the fall of communism. for over a decade and a half, population growth has been negative, and we're seeing a slow turnaround. in general, however, much remains to be done to change this situation in the countries of the european union, and the measures proposed in the report seem to me appropriate and should be adopted by national governments and supported by the commission. the other aspect i would like to mention is the pension system. across europe, the age at which young people enter the labour market has risen alarmingly, alongside the decline in the retirement age. many countries complain of a shortage of labor, on the one hand, and of people in their 50's who are retired or unable to find work. i appreciate the measures proposed in the report and in relation to this problem.
we're looking at a very good report that seems to have said it all. we thank the people who worked on it. allow me, however, a rephrase that is not a figure of speech. our overall objective as politicians is to rearrange the relationships between people in society so that we can live as long as possible in harmony with nature. if we accept this objective, we have no demographic problem. and besides, we don't become the subject of demography's study except through an unwarranted simplification and ignorance of who we are. the indicators that measure the state of people as a population are different, and we know them. they're called human development indicators. the european union countries are, in this respect, among the most advanced countries, which is good. the challenge is not to change demographic behaviors, but to accept that we need to change our economic and social model. it's superior to other models, but it's inadequate. it's left behind our own development as people. there is a gap between our overall objective and the organization of social space and economic relations, between statements and deeds. we say it's necessary to have more children. at the same time, 30% of europe's children are below the poverty line. we ask women to give birth, but the biggest risk of exclusion is single mothers. the employment rate must rise, but social services must not be funded. we export problems and we want to import solutions, only citizens are not a market. we need to humanize economic and social relations if we're going to solve the problem. this is the big challenge.
ladies and gentlemen, europe is currently facing considerable demographic challenges which will have a long-term impact on its future. today's debate is therefore not only welcome but also necessary to ensure a successful future and sustained development. among all the recommendations in the report, i believe that three ideas should form the core of european demographic policy. in the context of the ageing population, the european union must give particular attention to children and young people in the first place. the protection of the child and the provision of a solid opportunity for personal and professional development for young people are strategically important for the future, and the development of these objectives must be integrated into a comprehensive policy for the protection of the family and the promotion of women. the second element, education, is closely related to the principle mentioned above. a successful europe requires human resources capable of meeting new challenges, but also scientific progress, public health and a decent standard of living. achieving these objectives is indisputably dependent on the level of education and continuing training of all generations. finally, migration flows are the third decisive factor, with immigration being an important prerequisite for ensuring demographic balance and economic growth. in this respect, i welcome the rapporteur's call to consider immigration as a positive element of the european population, but above all to strengthen european policies in the field of social integration of migrants, the fight against discrimination and xenophobia. in conclusion, i would like to stress the need to mobilise public policies at all levels necessary for the successful implementation of the objectives mentioned. local and regional authorities have a key role to play in this respect and must be constantly involved.
in writing. the demographic strategy of the european union addresses many social and economic issues. i would like to stress, however, the importance of a coherent policy for young people, particularly as regards access to the labour market. it is well known that the 25-30 age group is present in a relatively small proportion on the european labour market compared to other categories of the population. the european commission and the member states should increase the number of legislative initiatives and pilot programmes that lead to easier access to employment for young people. examples of such initiatives could be: giving tax incentives to firms that hire young people or broadening the range of flexible employment contracts. secondly, we are faced, particularly in the new member states, with the problem of regions being left behind by young people in large numbers. the european union's cohesion policy should, through the structural funds it makes available to the member states, create favourable conditions for young people to develop their professional and business projects in their communities of origin. member states must complement eu financial support with measures such as priority access for young people to land and housing, tax incentives for young entrepreneurs or access to low-interest loans for youth projects.
mr president, commissioner, the reports we are debating, for which i congratulate both rapporteurs, raise a number of extremely important issues, in my view: the problem of urban and rural partnerships for the balanced and sustainable development of the whole territory, the problem of the chaotic expansion of urban settlements that generates the fragmentation of the landscape, but also the continuous loss of land. all of this, together with climate change and depopulation of rural areas, are challenges that we at european level and the local administrations that manage these policies must take into account. as a romanian mep, i strongly support the idea that it is not only metropolitan areas that have innovation potential and i ask the commission to work more intensively to develop a development model for small and medium-sized cities in rural areas.
mr president, i commend both reports, but would at the same time like to draw attention to a contrasting view, linking industrial relocation inside the eu and structural and cohesion fund policy. structural funds can be seen as an overall subsidy provided by the eu to the less developed areas. should we understand that this regional cohesion policy is questioned by leading politicians in leading eu member states? what should happen? should areas in the less developed member states of the eu stop the development of infrastructure for fear of being accused of unfair competition? i refer to a financial times article published the monday before last, to the effect that a market economy should not be a jungle. public policies do have a role to play, and not only for social reasons. however, we should keep our poise because there is no infallible local or national economy in this world, and however much we believe in social justice, not all citizens can always be winners at the same time, in the same place and all the time.
in writing. the commission report refers to depopulation of rural areas, due to the absence of jobs outside agriculture or poor living conditions. the rural development fund contributes, along with the other funds, to economic and social cohesion. the effective use of rural development funds is a welcome solution to these problems. however, the condition for the effective use of these funds is that potential beneficiaries are well aware of the funding opportunities offered. access to information is all the more important in the new member states, which are not yet used to the community's financial instruments. i would like to give an example from romania, the country i represent: according to a study, half of the rural population knows nothing about the existence of the funds they are entitled to and only one in ten citizens knows which institution they should contact to access them. it is regrettable that the romanian government has not made sufficient efforts to inform the citizens, while at the same time it is obvious that no one can replace the work of the romanian government. i believe, however, that ensuring proper access to information and preparing future beneficiaries should be an important issue on the commission's agenda, as a prerequisite for the effective use of cohesion instruments.
advances in medical technology and in medical schools have made it possible to treat patients in ways that were once unattainable. sadly, though, there are many cases in which preventable medical errors endanger the lives of patients. malpractice is still a reality in many of the countries of the european union. this is particularly the case in many of the countries that have recently joined the european union. the organisation of health services is the responsibility of the member states, and each of the countries of the european union has its own legislation on malpractice. however, since consumer protection and patient rights are important objectives of the european union, i believe that a european approach would be needed, both in terms of patient information and legislation against malpractice in the european union.
in recent months, the media have reported violent racist and xenophobic demonstrations targeting romanian children in italy. two cases have caught the public's attention: a 13-year-old boy from civitavecchia, near rome, who was taken to the emergency room after being beaten up by an italian colleague; in the second case, discrimination and stigmatization are even more evident, going so far as to have a romanian mother requesting a change of her son's name. the child no longer wants to be romanian and not to hear about romania. the reason for this behavior is that, although he speaks italian and has integrated perfectly, the child is daily mocked by his peers for the simple fact that he is romanian. that is why, madam president, i wonder if all these forms of xenophobia affecting romanian children are not the result of a media campaign against romanians. in the spirit of fundamental principles ...
madam president, in accordance with the challenge of the eu development cooperation policy for the new member states, i shall focus on the national strategy for education in romania. even before my country’s integration into the eu, the national strategy for education in romania was focused on making the system compatible with existing systems in the other eu countries. therefore, in 2004 we started the bologna reforms, and a three-year degree structure has been in use since the academic year 2005-2006. recent surveys show that the acceptance of the european credit transfer system (ects) is now complete, and students in romania are already following the new system. for the future, we plan to finish successfully the implementation of the bologna reforms, in order to encourage romanian students to study abroad and foreign students to study in romania, and to make sure that the degrees awarded by the universities are in accordance with the needs of the labour market in europe.
in writing. today, more and more european citizens are using information society services, whether it be financial services, intelligent transport systems, charging systems for the use of road infrastructure, health and care it systems, the internet, surveillance and control cameras, the use of biometric data. the security and safety of these services is vital to the trust of users . the security of electronic networks and information systems, together with technologies to enhance the protection of personal data, is at the heart of the strategy for a secure information society, adopted by the commission in 2006. in may 2007, the commission issued a communication outlining the potential risks of using information technology, such as identity theft, surveillance or even fraud. a safer information society requires that specific products and services include mechanisms for protecting personal data from the design stage. it is also necessary that the processes and principles applicable to ensuring security in the information society are defined and accessible to all those involved in the design, operation and use of information systems. i ask the commission to examine the need for community regulations on the security of electronic communications services and information systems. any provider of information society services must comply with national and international legislation on the protection of personal data.
i would like to congratulate rapporteur costa and all the colleagues who took part in the negotiations on the third reading. we are discussing this document more than two years after the regulation proposed by the commission in 2005 to replace the 2002 regulation adopted in the wake of the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001. air transport has experienced an accelerated development in recent years. in 1970, there were about 200 million passengers in the eu-15, but by 2000 the number had risen to about 600 million. unfortunately, the september 11 attacks caused an estimated 2% decline in air travel between 2000 and 2001. the european parliament considers the safety of passengers and staff working in air transport to be of the utmost importance. the discussions in the conciliation procedure focused in particular on the sharing of costs related to the necessary security measures, the implementation of security checks in a unitary manner, the impact of civil aviation security programmes adopted at national, airport or air operator level. common security standards will be adopted subsequently by the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, so that the european parliament will have an important role in this process. the costs of the additional civil aviation security measures will be borne by both member states and users. by 31 december 2008, the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament setting out the measures to be imposed so that the fees for security measures are used exclusively for this purpose and the necessary transparency regarding the calculation and use of these fees is ensured. as regards the use of security officers on board aircraft, each member state has the power to decide on aircraft registered and licensed in that member state, but their role has been enhanced by the introduction of provisions on training and security requirements.
in writing. harmonising the actions taken by member states, airports and airlines to ensure civil aviation security is a pressing need to respond to terrorist threats. however, a balance must be struck between efforts to enhance safety and ensure the comfort of air transport users. every effort should be made, in particular, to improve the technical performance of screening equipment and to apply the single control for transit flights, which allows both a reduction in processing time and, in the medium and long term, an effective reduction in real costs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to ensure the safety of the union industry. the financing aspects need to be clarified as soon as possible so that both eu taxpayers and transport users have a real picture of the destination of the amounts collected, clearly separating the financing of direct measures from the costs of insurance and any state aid for additional security measures that a member state may impose.
the implementation of an integrated strategy for sustainable transport development must be a top priority for both the commission and the member states. investment in transport infrastructure needs to be accelerated, especially environmentally friendly infrastructure such as railways, inland waterways and motorways. a comprehensive assessment of the external costs and, in particular, the negative environmental impact of transport is required. these negative effects must be known and assumed by including them in the prices paid by users. it is therefore of particular importance that the internalisation of external costs be carried out simultaneously for all modes of transport. in these circumstances, the modal split would be improved, with less polluting modes of transport favoured, as well as the development of the trans-european network and intermodality for freight. i believe that better logistics and improved management, especially through increased research and the application of new technologies in the field of intelligent systems, are steps forward in superior traffic planning, flow management and the elimination of congestion and congestion. romania is making sustained efforts to align with european standards, in particular by attracting investment in disadvantaged areas, in order to ensure the prerequisites for reducing development gaps in infrastructure. romania also supports and promotes actions aimed at improving energy efficiency to help reduce the negative impact of transport on the environment and also encourages investments in alternative energy sources. i therefore call on the european commission to re-evaluate the multiannual financial frameworks for transport funding and for research in the field with a view to achieving more economically and energy-efficient products and services. i also recommend that member states encourage public-private partnerships and, by implication, private investment in these areas and make full use of the funds available to create a sustainable transport environment, to improve road safety and the health of the environment in which we live.
european sustainable transport policy, taking into account european energy and environmental policies, concerns and directly affects all of the approximately 490 million european citizens. i have asked the commission and the member states to look at how transport infrastructure and tariffs affect urban development and future demand for transport services. i have asked the commission and the member states to intervene in the modernisation of port infrastructure, both for the european union's maritime ports and those on inland waterways, to enable the rapid transfer of goods and passengers from one transport system to another, thus facilitating the reduction of energy consumption in transport. in 2007, the european union made a firm and unilateral commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% compared with 1990 levels. the introduction, especially in large urban agglomerations, of intelligent transport systems for traffic control will avoid traffic congestion which costs the european union approximately 1% of its gross domestic product annually. the development of the european rail transport system will also contribute to complying with european energy and climate change policies. in this context, i believe that one of the priorities for the development of transeuropean transport should be the creation of a high-speed rail network linking all the capitals of the member states concerned. high-speed trains have to reach bucharest and sofia.
in writing. i consider the request made by the united kingdom to be justified and therefore support the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in this case. romania has been hit by major floods in recent years, the latest of which occurred just this week. as in the uk, much of the damage from flooding could be avoided by greater involvement in the prevention effort. however, the scale of the natural phenomenon overwhelmed the existing infrastructure and the response capacity of the national authorities. that is why i support two measures that the european union can take to make the national and european response more efficient: allocating funds from the structural funds to infrastructure works to limit the effects of natural disasters; and secondly, setting up as soon as possible a european response force, made up of specialist teams from all the member states, to intervene in emergency situations in any region of the european union. a second important aspect is the amount of funds allocated by the european union to emergency situations. i believe that as we consider a major revision of the eu budget this year, we should look at increasing the allocation to the european solidarity fund.
mr president, by the end of this year we will have two reports from the commission on free movement: one on the free movement of workers – and i suppose the commission will probably advise the member states to lift the transitional arrangements applied to workers coming from the new member states – and the other on the implementation of the directive on free movement of citizens, and we may see a number of member states being sent to the european court of justice in this regard. all the fears that governed the transitional arrangements put in place with the 2004 enlargement are now starting to dissipate. no economic security or demographic reason remains for keeping the work restrictions for another five years. on the contrary, a free european labour market is what is needed to present europe as a model, as a partner and as a world leader. we are regulating access to our labour market for third-country citizens. that is fair enough, and much appreciated. but, first, let us sort things out in our own back yard. let us have a coherent and a common policy on the free movement of workers inside the union. if we are to be true to the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaties and if we are serious about making the lisbon strategy a reality, the time has come to put an end to verbal action and start real action. finally, i would add that, from the outset, this commission was given a green light to address the fundamental rights of citizens, and i was looking forward to seeing something very specific on those issues in the plan for next year.
in writing. − as a member of parliament elected in romania, i welcome the adoption of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on draft amending budget no 1/2008 of the european union. this budgetary correction is welcomed in the light of the modification of the staffing scheme of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). romania is the eastern outpost of the european union and is the state responsible for managing one of the union's largest external land borders. as such, romania has a duty to always support the intensification of cooperation for better border management and to provide frontex with sufficient means to carry out its work under the best conditions, whether it is financial, personnel or equipment. last but not least, the creation of the 'exceptional expenditure in case of crisis' item is welcome: we can never be sufficiently prepared for such an unwanted event.
i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and on the effort she has made to find a compromise on this extremely sensitive subject. as a member of the european parliament from a new member state, i consider the 2% increase to be beneficial, even though we would have liked a significantly higher percentage, especially for member states with both low milk quotas and untapped production potential. the increase in national milk quotas does not constitute a threat to the stability of the milk market. i would like to draw attention to the fact that a 2% increase in quotas will actually result in an increase in milk production at community level of only 0.8%. i also believe that we need to maintain the current quota system to stimulate the consolidation of existing farms and encourage the creation of new ones. the terms used in relation to quotas in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy are those of the 'soft landing' procedure, i.e. the gradual abandonment of quotas. the new member states, and in particular romania and bulgaria, which only joined on 1 january 2007 and which, using the same language, 'take off' abruptly, will have difficulties in adapting their 'take-off' procedures to those for 'landing' smoothly. if this proposal had not been accepted, the quota allocated to romania would have been exhausted, as in 2007, by the middle of the year, which does not stimulate, but completely discourages the development projects of our farmers. i hope the vote on this report in the house will be as strong as the vote in the committee on agriculture.
in writing. mrs jeggle's report is extremely important not only for proposals to increase milk quotas but also for defining principles that we need to take into account when we consider agricultural policy as a whole. following discussions in the committee on agriculture and rural development, we agreed that an increase in milk quotas for member states is necessary as from 1 april 2008. i represent romania in the ep, a new member state which has been facing a crisis of milk quotas since the first year of accession, which is insufficient to meet market demand and is not in line with current realities. the romanian milk sector has made great progress since the negotiation of the milk quota in 2004 and up to accession, through investments in modern technology, the expansion of production capacities and the recruitment of new staff. maintaining a milk quota at that level would mean bankruptcy for investors, unemployment in rural areas specialised in milk production and processing and an increase in imports and the price paid by consumers. the report is a turning point because the european union is showing flexibility in tackling a problem facing several member states. finally, the beneficiaries of this report are the citizens of europe.
as vice-president of envi, i would like to make a few remarks on the impact of climate change on agriculture. in recent years, intensive farming has made farmers a major contributor to global warming, and today they are fighting its devastating effects. statistics estimate that agriculture is responsible for 17 to 32 percent of greenhouse gas emissions from human activities. agriculture continues to be polluting as a result of the unreasonable use of fertilisers, the improper storage of animal manure, the unreasonable use of land, and i am referring in particular to deforestation and overgrazing. global warming is irreversible, and the frequent occurrence of droughts or floods in the future should not surprise us. i therefore support the idea put forward in the report of creating a safety net at european level to support eu farmers in the event of an ecological, climatic or epidemiological disaster. in this context, i call on the european commission to examine the possibility of setting up urgently a fund or a multi-risk insurance mechanism, which would be aimed at eu farmers and be financed both from the eu budget and from the member states' budgets.
the common agricultural policy is one of the basic pillars of the european construction, and the debate on how to improve this policy should be a constant not only for the european institutions but also within the member states in the constituencies where we have been elected. i am glad that the commission communication and the report drawn up by mr goepel identify some solutions to make the common agricultural policy more effective so that farmers and the rural population can be confident that this policy is for their benefit and not a set of bureaucratic provisions drawn up in some brussels office. but we must ensure that the proposals of the commission, the council and ourselves are sufficiently flexible and grounded in reality to be able to measure their effectiveness when they are put into practice. romania, the country i represent in the european parliament, has 25% of its workforce in agriculture and 40% of the total population lives in rural areas. these are figures that demonstrate the importance of agriculture and the rural environment for romania and for our economy. the solutions we find for cap reform must take into account cases like romania's, with a very large agricultural sector and in the process of modernisation.
i am pleased to take the floor on a reality that is so often ignored, namely the situation of rural women. although the system of laws and regulations applicable at the level of the union and at the level of each member state excludes any discrimination, it is clear that there is a huge gap between the life of women in urban areas and that of women in rural areas. romania, like other new eu member states, is in a much worse situation than the overall one described in the report. in the 1990s, with the decline of industry, a phenomenon emerged that western european countries had not experienced before: migration from the city to the countryside as a way of economic survival. in our region, rural poverty has affected and continues to affect predominantly women, making them the most vulnerable victims of trafficking in human beings. unfortunately, industrial agriculture, which could have absorbed some of the female workforce from the countryside, has also experienced a phenomenon of disruption. public services in health, education, transport, water and sanitation have deteriorated rapidly, with many of the eu's less developed countries' villages virtually lacking such services. rural women, especially young and middle-aged women, could develop independent economic activities if they had access to bank loans, and i think we can consider the possibility of establishing a bank to provide micro-loans in rural areas.
in 2006, in the european union, the ratio of the income of the top 20 percent of the population to the bottom 20 percent was 4.8. unfortunately, in portugal, lithuania and latvia, the ratio was over 6. it is clear that rural people have lower incomes than urban people, and this is even more evident for women. improving the situation of women in rural areas requires the efficient use of structural funds. the development of transport infrastructure, education, health services, communication infrastructure and information technology and the service sector in rural areas will lead to their economic development and, by implication, to the improvement of the situation of rural women. i conclude by saying that rural areas can, through investment, transform the land available into industrial parks that provide jobs. efficient transport infrastructure allows distance to be measured in time rather than kilometres, so that those working in urban areas can live in rural areas, thus contributing to their economic development.
the success of the lisbon strategy requires sustained economic growth in both urban and rural areas of the european union, and women play a crucial role in the development of these areas. i therefore welcome the report which analyses the situation of rural women and makes concrete recommendations to improve their situation in the context of globalisation and the achievement of the lisbon objectives. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it's about education. the statistics available to us show that a small number of rural women have access to higher education because of financial difficulties and the poor quality of education in these areas. rural women must have improved access to education and continuing training and opportunities to reconcile family and professional life. this is a key element that should be strengthened with the active role of women in political life and the socio-economic development of rural areas.
ladies and gentlemen, since we are discussing a subject which is not only about equal opportunities but also about rural development in general, i shall refer to the measures which apply at community level in this field. the programmes and funds in pillar 2 of rural development have a much higher percentage of resources than the european union's special programmes for equal opportunities. if we can make it easier for women to access programmes like leader, dedicated to rural development, we will have much more to gain than if we use only the resources of the equal, progress or daphne programmes. within the eu budget, rural development funds amount to 11%, while the entire citizenship chapter, which includes equal opportunities programmes, is less than 1%. this is the european union's great challenge in this case: to be able to communicate, to mobilise and to facilitate the link between european funds and the various projects that can be initiated in rural areas by women.
in writing. the eu is facing major social changes, which have brought with them issues of migration, social security and poverty. eu programmes have made an important contribution to improving the situation of rural women. however, women are not involved in decision-making in the communities they live in. as a worrying case in point, the majority of women in rural romania have incomes of less than 5 euro/day, and a third do not use any means of information. consider three priority areas of action for achieving equal opportunities and improving the situation of rural women:- improving economic status by supporting women's access to new earning and property opportunities; - full involvement of women in decision-making and enhanced capacity to change/influence decisions that directly affect them; - access of rural women to essential services (health, education) and infrastructure. member states must define public policies to encourage women's participation in the labour market, in decision-making and in combating all forms of discrimination.
at the current level of oil, biogas is an energy resource that needs to be taken into account, especially in the context of the european union's increasing dependence on hydrocarbon imports. we all know it, the target of 20% renewable energy in total european energy consumption by 2020 is well known. or, in these circumstances, it is obvious that biogas will also have to be stimulated, especially through financial instruments, as an energy resource. biogas and other biofuels, together with solar and wind energy, can significantly reduce dependence on conventional energy sources. in addition, compared to other types of renewables, biogas has the advantage that it can be used for both electricity and heat production, as well as for transport. perhaps a new biogas directive alone would be too much, but i think it is welcome that the commission should be asked to present a special report on biogas in the european union, which should also contain recommendations on european and national legislation in this area.
i would like to congratulate mr turmes on his work. energy and climate change are priorities for the european union. energy statistics are therefore also of great importance, as they enable the union to assess the sector and take the necessary measures. on 26 february 2008, eurostat published a set of statistical indicators for energy, transport and the environment. for energy, we find indicators related to energy dependency, energy intensity, energy sources, final energy consumption, renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy prices. and in terms of climate change, we have greenhouse gas emissions. member states will be required to provide the data needed to produce the indicators required by the proposed regulation. it will require significant funds for data collection and processing. the 14th amendment also mentions the time savings achieved by using information technology in the process of data collection and processing. amendment no 5 stresses the need for security of supply of the most important fuels and for accurate data at european level, provided in good time, in order to anticipate and coordinate solutions at european union level in the event of possible supply crises. this is in line with the solidarity clause for energy crisis situations in the lisbon treaty. european citizens need these statistics to be accurate and precise.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to reduce the impact of the use of plant protection products on the environment and human health by creating a mechanism for calculating risk indicators and monitoring the targets set in the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides. as a virtual rapporteur, i considered that there should be consistency between the definitions contained in the pesticide package and i opted for the inclusion of biocidal products in the scope of the regulation to ensure greater protection for users. we want to use this proposal to improve the data collection system and to support the harmonisation of existing statistics between member states, so that progress in this area can be determined and the necessary measures implemented to achieve the objective of reducing the risks posed by pesticides. moreover, the availability of official statistics across europe will increase market transparency and improve the competitiveness of the pesticide industry. at the same time, reducing the use of pesticides will bring benefits to society, such as improved food quality, reduced contamination of drinking water, environmental protection and sustainable conservation of natural resources. the european union must ensure that the health of its citizens is not endangered by these dangerous substances and stimulate new eco-efficient agricultural practices.
mr president, the next european summit takes place in momentous times. the deepening financial crisis, rooted in cyclical and structured conditions, demands firm responses. asia’s rise implies a new sort of competition amongst capitalisms, with the fallout in the activity of sovereign wealth funds and the rise in the price of basic commodities. one should also add the worrying effects of climate change, the need to secure energy security and a rise in overall uncertainty. all these factors impact strongly on the implementation of the lisbon agenda, through complicated, unavoidable trade-offs. let me stress several policy issues. first, the quality of national policymaking is essential for improving industrial and economic performance. second, policymaking should be pragmatic, open-minded and avoid the confusion between free markets and totally deregulated markets. third, industrial policy, r&d in particular, has a major role to play, together with education. it is essential to increase the number of graduates in science and mathematics in member states, and all member states should work together to this end. fourth, energy policy needs more focus and the nabucco project is a step in the right direction. fifth, good quality land should be seen as a strategic asset in the reform of the common agricultural policy. last but not least, we have to reaffirm moral values and moral conduct. if we lose our moral compass, the talk about competitiveness in the social... (the president cut off the speaker)
traditionally, the first european summit of the year is devoted to economic issues. the slovenian presidency of the council of ministers has therefore put on the agenda of the heads of state or government meeting an important debate on the second cycle of the revised lisbon strategy for 2008-2010. in my view, a number of issues, particularly those relating to the second objective of the lisbon strategy, namely increasing employment, should not be left out of the subject which you will be discussing in the coming days. although heavily promoted as a principle in european parliament resolutions, european labour mobility is suffering greatly in practice. the arbitrary restrictions on access for workers from the new member states also contribute to reduced mobility. in this context, the european commission will be tasked at the end of 2008 with assessing the measures imposed by some member states to restrict labour mobility in romania and bulgaria. recent statistics have shown that the significant wave of migration from the two countries has not occurred and that none of the states that allowed access to romanian or bulgarian workers has experienced labour market imbalances. however, under current legislation, member states can continue to maintain these restrictions, as is the case with the countries that joined in 2004. as barriers to employment are often imposed to meet political needs of the moment, i believe that one of the measures that could be considered would be precisely the revision of the system of transitional periods and, in particular, the 2+3+2 formula. a welcome measure would be to obtain the binding opinion of the european parliament on the continuation or termination of restrictions after the first two years of accession of a new member state. such involvement of the european institutions would reduce the discretionary and arbitrary manner in which restrictions on the principle of european free movement are often applied.
in writing. the decision to dedicate the future european council to the lisbon strategy is welcome and necessary. i think the march discussion should focus on evaluating the concrete results achieved so far, but also on the adjustments to be made to make the strategy a real success. two key elements must be pursued to ensure sustained economic development associated with the achievement of prosperity in the eu. first, the eu must continue its policy of strengthening the education, training and innovation system, and 2009 as the year of innovation must be fully used in this direction. secondly, the development of a european migration policy and the integration of migrants as a factor of european growth is necessary. at the same time, the eu will not be truly stable and prosperous without effectively and firmly promoting these objectives externally, in the european neighbourhood, in particular in the black sea region. the european council must address the issue of energy security and the successful implementation of the nabucco project, taking into account the alarming situation in some neighbouring countries following the recent elections in the area.
recognising the progress made by iraq recently both internally and externally, the european union should encourage the iraqi authorities to continue their efforts to build democratic, stable, legitimate, federal state institutions. given the ethnic and religious realities, i believe that only a federal iraq can be viable. i mean a federal iraq, not a divided iraq. the european union must also encourage the existence of a stable iraq with institutions capable of ensuring national sovereignty, state unity, territorial integrity, sustainable economic development and the prosperity of the iraqi people. the european union must actively support the institution building of iraq, which must be anchored in its realities, with respect for the historical, religious, cultural and identity traditions of the iraqi people and of all ethnic and religious communities in its territory. in this regard, it would be beneficial to establish advisory bodies composed of leaders from all ethnic and religious communities in iraq, with the aim of conferring greater legitimacy on the central authorities. the european union must support iraqi institution building through the eujust lex mission and through appropriate european financial instruments. i stress the need for european funding to go directly to the iraqi institutions that receive it. these funds must be managed by the european union institutions in a transparent manner and visible to european citizens. i recommend that the european union institutions use the experience and expertise of those member states which already have a civilian and military presence on iraqi territory in the process of stabilising and rebuilding that country. i also believe that european companies should be encouraged and supported to get involved in the reconstruction of iraq and to be able to develop their business in the area better.
madam president, europe was against the war in iraq. however, irrespective of who was right and who was wrong, post-saddam iraq is a reality nobody can ignore. taking into account the impact of the iraqi situation on the entire middle east and beyond, the eu cannot continue to stay for the most part relatively on the margins. through its huge resources and expertise, the eu must engage in a significant way in supporting the consolidation of the new iraqi state. the commissioner described the symptoms. now we need to see how we could cure them, and not only in concert with other international organisations – the eu can do better than that – but mainly on our own. the strategic aim is to help the new, democratically elected authorities in that country to give credibility, and therefore authority, to the institutions of the new state. a new, democratic, self-sustaining, oil-rich iraq in the middle of the middle east is in the interest of all.
the european commission is currently negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement with the iraqi authorities, during which human rights issues are also addressed. i call on the european commission to press the iraqi authorities to find solutions for the reintegration of external and internal refugees. i also call on the member states of the union to give priority to the asylum applications of iraqi refugees. the different responses of the states to this question once again demonstrate the need to harmonise refugee procedures at european level. it is essential that the trade and cooperation agreement also addresses the dimension of interparliamentary cooperation. i believe that the european parliament's delegation for relations with iraq can support the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the iraqi legislature. the european union has a responsibility to assist iraq to become a viable partner in a sensitive region. congratulations and thanks to mrs. ana maria gomes for the report.
the chairman of the council. - the answer to the supplementary question by mr medina ortega is very clear. the council can do nothing to force a member state to behave in one way or another when deciding whether to grant asylum. this concerns the obligations of the member states under international law. however, additional obligations will also arise when the common asylum policy of the european union is taken forward in the direction i described earlier, namely towards the establishment of a common asylum system. i cannot say more than i have already said in the introduction. the european commission will have to present the envisaged timetable here. i therefore propose that the question be referred to the commission.
the chairman of the council. - the only answer i can give to mr higgins is that i cannot answer because the european commission is responsible for answering. this is a matter for which she is responsible and i regret that i cannot give a substantive answer here.
the chairman of the council. − i will try to answer certain aspects that have been raised in the additional questions. the restrictions on liquids, sprays, gels and similar articles in air transport were imposed for a reason. they were introduced in response to a threat that was proven to be serious and clear, a threat to the safety of civil aviation transport. we are aware that experts from different fields are intensively seeking solutions and technology to facilitate the detection of real threats and thus facilitate the transport of liquids, sprays and gels in hand luggage in civil air transport. this is being discussed in many places, notably in the international civil aviation agency. we're following these discussions, but no conclusions have been reached at this time. if and when that happens, we expect the commission to take appropriate action.
the chairman of the council. - i will try to answer all three questions together, but the answer is a bit longer. on the other hand, it is also a subject that is particularly relevant at this time. the council is determined to continue to support the european perspective of the western balkans and to make it more tangible for the people of the region. this will include, for example, facilitating the opening of a visa liberalisation dialogue with the countries of the region. at its meeting on monday 10 march, the council welcomed the inaugural meeting of the regional cooperation council, which marked the formal handover of the stability pact to the new regional cooperation council. the establishment of this council demonstrates the tremendous progress made in regional cooperation in the fields of democracy and economic and security issues. the council has already stressed the importance of regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, as well as the need for renewed efforts by all parties to find mutually acceptable solutions to outstanding issues in relations with their neighbours through a constructive approach to negotiations. in its conclusions of 18 february, the council confirmed its determination to support fully and effectively the european perspective for the western balkans. it instructed the commission to use community instruments to promote economic and political development and to offer the wider region concrete measures to help it move in this direction. and here i come to a particularly important event: on 5 march, the european commission published a communication on the western balkans. in it, it proposes a series of tangible measures to further deepen relations between the european union and the countries of the region. this communication and the consolidation of the european perspective of the western balkan countries in general will be the main topic of the informal meeting of the european union's foreign ministers scheduled for the end of this month in slovenia. the slovenian presidency is also paying particular attention to the western balkans, as the stability of this region is crucial for the security and prosperity of the european union as a whole. the year 2008 may see, among other things, the revision of the 2003 thessaloniki agenda, the conclusion of a series of stabilisation and association agreements, and the strengthening of intra-regional cooperation in various fields. in the short time available, i will try to summarise the eu presidency's main objectives for each country. where kosovo was mentioned in one of the questions, let me say a few words about it. the presidency continues to believe that a long-term solution to the status of kosovo is needed in the overall framework of the european future of the western balkans. the stabilisation and association process is the strategic framework developed by the european union for its policy towards the western balkans. the instruments of that framework shall also apply to kosovo. i would like to recall the council conclusions of 18 february, in which the council confirmed its commitment to supporting the european future of the western balkans in a comprehensive and effective manner. in this context, he called on the commission to use community mechanisms to promote economic and political development and to propose concrete measures to bring the wider region closer to this objective.
thank you for the clarification, but i would have liked to have had some additional information. we know that the energy treaty was signed in july 2006 to attract investment in energy, and we know that in 2007 a list of priority projects for energy infrastructure in the region was adopted and a memorandum on the social dimension was even signed. we also know that there are plans to sign a community transport treaty with the countries of the region to create an internal market in road, rail and inland waterway transport. a list of priority projects in the field of transport has also been drawn up and i would have liked more details from the council...
on behalf of the pse group. without policies to encourage a rise in births and child-rearing and care facilities, the proportion of the population aged over 65 will increase from 20% to 28% by 2025. the elderly have special needs, and society must change to meet them. adapted housing, health care and elderly care services are needed. in this context, the role of ict is becoming increasingly important. digital television, mobile phones, computers and even the internet are already used by some older people. many of them communicate with their children in other countries via the internet and webcams, whether in rural or urban settings. however, the percentage of european citizens aged over 65 using the internet is only 10%. it is worth noting that over 21% of european citizens over 50 have severe hearing, vision or dexterity problems, making it difficult for them to use standard ict equipment. in june 2007, the commission called on member states and industry to help implement the action plan 'integrating older people in the information society'. in this context, the home awareness support programme, to be carried out under the 7th framework research programme, will have a budget of €150 million from the community budget, with member states spending at least €150 million over the period 2008-2013, of course the participating member states. the objectives of this programme are: to promote the development of innovative ict-based products, services and systems for older people; to create a critical mass of european-specific research, development and innovation in technologies and services for older people in the information society; to improve the conditions for exploitation of research results by businesses. any member state may participate in this programme. two years after the start of the programme, the commission will produce an interim report and in 2013 will produce a final evaluation of the programme. i think the elderly deserve a chance, we have this duty! i congratulate the reporter.
according to statistics, the number of older people in europe will increase by 40% between 2010 and 2030. this presents challenges but also opportunities for public policy and the european future. a truly prosperous and competitive europe must find the right answer to these challenges and fully exploit the potential of new demographic trends. the elderly european citizen must benefit from quality services and conditions, and his or her experience must be used for the continuous development of society. in the context of the european union's aspiration to become an information-based economy and society, information technologies are an innovative response to this situation and the involvement of the european community in the relevant programmes is more than necessary. i would like to highlight two important aspects of the use of new technologies to improve the quality of life of older people. first, the european citizen must be trained and informed about the new technological possibilities offered. older people, especially in the new member states, are not familiar with this area at all or only partially, and the resulting losses for society as a whole are evident. the success of the decision discussed today therefore depends largely on europe's capacity to mobilise for their education and information. secondly, particular attention should be paid to women, whose share in the ageing society is higher than that of men, due to their longer life expectancy. this element must be taken into account both in scientific research into the ageing process and in the practical implementation of public policies. finally, i reiterate the importance of focusing on the situation in the new member states, where older people are less well off. the low standard of living, combined with a lack of knowledge of the use of new technologies, makes this category a priority target for future efforts at european level.
the exclusion of older people from the benefits of information technology in society is problematic, especially as the proportion of the european population aged 65 to 80 will soon reach 40%. the joint research and development programme, to which the european union will be associated, is therefore welcome, with a view to improving the lives of these people. what i want to stress, however, is that the community's financial involvement in the project is limited. the community contribution is capped at eur 150 million, provided that it comes from the budget of the r & d framework programme, which totals over eur 50 billion. moreover, the community contribution cannot exceed 50% of the public funds used in the project, an atypically small percentage for a project of such importance. beyond the concrete benefits that the it solutions identified through this programme will bring to older people, the union's participation in the project is a very good opportunity to contribute to the quality of life of europeans and for this reason the community financial contribution should exceed the national amounts allocated to this type of research.
the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund is an innovative solution to maximize the efficiency of public funds used in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources by mobilising private investment. this fund is a public-private partnership dedicated to financing specific projects proposed by smes, the value of which does not exceed eur 10 million. the initial costs for renewable energy projects are 37 times higher than for conventional energy sources, and we therefore regret that the current estimated value of the fund is only eur 100 million. in 2005, the union was 50% dependent on energy imports, with only denmark being a net exporter of energy. between 1995 and 2005 the use of renewable energy sources in the union increased by 40%. in 2005, clean energy sources accounted for 42% of european primary energy production. efficient use of this fund can provide energy for between 1 and 3 million citizens, while reducing co2 emissions by 1 to 2 million tonnes per year. i congratulate the reporter.
the report under consideration highlights a number of problems facing the member states in this area. faced with an increase in crime in certain areas, particularly in disadvantaged areas, marked by extreme poverty, illiteracy, family abandonment, and the deterioration of social protection systems, the governments of the member states have chosen an inadequate response, in my opinion: tougher penalties. recently, public attention in my country, romania, was drawn to the case of three women from the same family, daughter, mother and grandmother, imprisoned simultaneously to serve a sentence for a minor offense. it wasn't the only example of this kind. the report also calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of children against the dangers of sexual exploitation. a special situation exists for minor children who have both parents in prison. i support the call in the report to the commission to draw up a common european prison charter to allow for the harmonisation of detention conditions in the member states and a faster integration into society of those who have been sentenced to deprivation of liberty. i congratulate the rapporteur on her efforts.
on behalf of the pse group. the report we are discussing today has, in my view, the merit of helping the new members of the european union to define new policies and new mechanisms for helping the countries that are in the european union's sights. building on the founding values of the union and the obligations assumed by the treaties to which our countries are parties, the new states are now redefining their policies on development aid to countries in need, diversifying their instruments and areas of cooperation. what the rapporteur said in her opening remarks is perfectly true, in that priorities are not clearly defined and good intentions are often limited by a lack of financial resources. it seems that the new member states still need a period of adjustment to the council's decision-making mechanisms and its priorities in the field of development aid. for its part, romania has a national strategy on national international development cooperation policy, which stipulates that it will support the development of states in the geographical areas identified as priorities for external relations, namely eastern europe, the western balkans and the south caucasus. another effort is to gradually increase aid to african countries, especially in the field of education. i am glad that this year, on 1 october, the european socialist development day will be held in bucharest and i want to thank my socialist colleagues here for voting unanimously for my proposal to organise this event in a new member state of the european union, namely romania. i welcome this report as a useful framework for new member states to develop their own concepts in this area.
i welcome this report which will be of real help to the new member states in fulfilling their commitments to development cooperation policy. i will support the recommendations made in the report and i would like to highlight two of them, firstly the need for a strategy for educating citizens. it is not to make the citizens of a member state with a gross national income per capita of only 38% of the european union average, such as romania, understand that they must allocate budgetary resources for the development of other countries, but this is a fundamental value of the european union that we have assumed and romania, which is such a member country, will act in this direction. i would also like to stress the recommendation on the transfer of positive experiences from the old member states to the new member states in order to avoid those failures of development assistance which have not achieved their purpose, have not been effective and have only given a boost to corruption in the beneficiary states. i would like to stress the importance that must be attached to this assistance for the development of education and training of human resources. in this respect, romania has a very positive experience, granting scholarships to pupils and students from the republic of moldova and south-western ukraine. it is a direct relationship between romanian universities and schools and pupils and students from these countries.
in writing. although the draft resolution under debate sets ambitious objectives, i believe that it will be difficult to achieve a common policy, even at the level of principle, in the near future. although we are one big family together, each eu member state has its own priorities with regard to the countries or geographical regions to which it is currently directing its regional development activities, priorities motivated by economic, geo-political, ethnic, historical interests, etc., and this seems, at this moment, hard to believe to change significantly. the recent episode of the kosovo region's declaration of independence has shown how divided the member states are in their opinions, and for the same reasons, the same diversity of opinions is expected to persist when the subject under discussion is the situation of our neighbours outside the community. it is true that a major step has been taken with the creation, by the treaty of lisbon, of the post of high representative of the eu for foreign affairs. however, in the absence of clear rules on how to set community priorities, each member state will try to promote and direct development policies, including financial (allocations from the union budget) towards those non-community regions towards which its own priorities are directed.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all congratulate the rapporteur on this extremely comprehensive report on a cross-cutting subject of great importance. indeed, greater participation of women in the economy and an equitable division of power between men and women are essential conditions for development. without gender equality for development, we will never achieve either the millennium development goals or sustainable economic growth. why is it that in sub-saharan africa the percentage of women in the workforce is only 34% of those in formal employment? why do these women earn only 10 percent of total income and why do they own only 1 percent of the property? these are obviously very important questions. and as your report says, why are 70 percent of the 1.3 billion people living in absolute poverty women? so there is clearly a particular, specific drama connected with the nature of being a woman. unfortunately, there are too many questions like that. even in europe, even in the national parliaments of our member states, where the participation of women is quite high, there is no guarantee that women's priorities will always be on the agenda. as regards our policy towards our partner countries, we are aware that we must conduct an extremely intensive political dialogue. i can tell you that the dialogue on gender equality is not always straightforward, for example, when it comes to supporting the development of disaggregated statistics or calling for greater attention to social sectors in budgetary framing, because often education or health are not real priorities. yet we know that women's health and education are key to development. all this is at the heart of the communication on gender equality in development cooperation adopted by the european commission on 8 march 2007. this policy is a response to the commitments made in the european consensus on development on gender equality in all our cooperation policies and practices. the ambition of this communication is to develop a european vision and harmonised support for the promotion of gender equality in all regions and all developing countries. the communication also serves as a guide for new aid modalities, including budget support. contrary to the criticisms in your report, i believe that budget support provides new opportunities to support gender equality effectively. why would you do that? i have often had occasion to mention the reasons why i was in favour of budget support wherever possible. budget support gives us an incomparably stronger lever in the political dialogue with the authorities of the partner country. it gives us the opportunity to discuss, for example, policy options, and among other things also the need to develop better the potential of women in the economic and social development of a country. furthermore, we base our support in this case on verification of tangible outcomes presented or revealed by indicators that are always disaggregated by gender, and thus clearly show gender gaps where they exist. the objectives by which a country's performance is measured are aligned with the millennium development goals and, for the most part, are highly relevant to improving women's living conditions. the aim is to increase the rate of girls' schooling and the number of prenatal consultations, to name just a few. and it is on the basis of the progress made by a country on these kinds of objectives that the european commission disburses its variable budget support tranches. in the course of this debate, someone spoke about conditionality. when you give budgetary support, you obviously have the possibility, in some way, of obliging the partner to respect criteria, to respect conditionalities. it's much stronger in terms of positive influence than when you don't do budget support. i think that, in any case, i am prepared to continue this debate in other contexts. but i am firmly convinced, from my own experience today, that budgetary aid, where possible, is obviously much more effective. for a long time, we have taken a two-pronged approach. on the one hand, we integrate gender equality into all our policies and actions, such as budget support and policy dialogue with our partners. this requires, among other things, the training of our colleagues in the gender delegations. thus, since 2004, more than a thousand colleagues have received gender-specific training and we have now set up a gender helpdesk to continue this training in the future. we also finance specific actions to promote gender equality. such actions are included in some national indicative programmes, but more importantly there are thematic programmes which complement geographical cooperation. the programmes 'investing in human resources' and 'human rights and democracy' incorporate specific elements for the promotion of gender equality. the investing in human resources programme has €57 million for gender-specific actions between 2007 and 2013, an average annual amount almost three times what we did until 2006. of course, gender equality is also integrated into the other thematic programmes, whether in education, health, agriculture, the environment or culture. it is true that there is still a long way to go, but i am convinced that with a common commitment to promoting equality between women and men, in collaboration especially with women in developing countries, we will be able to fight poverty and build more just societies.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - ladies and gentlemen, i see that the report has already generated reactions. hopefully, it's a proof of his political relevance. the commission's communication was a very good starting point, and parliament added useful clarifications. i would like to explain the principle that i started with in constructing the position. the goal was clear, we support women's empowerment in development cooperation. there is, beyond the equality reasons, ample evidence that women are a good investment, excellent multipliers of results. but how do we get the most efficiency in achieving the goal? we could have asked the beneficiary states for strict criteria on women's empowerment. they already exist, anyway. however, we can also expect weaker reactions, lack of expertise and administrative capacity, formal commitments in strategic development plans and lack of practical implementation of these commitments. failure to comply with the obligations may result in the reduction or suspension of the aid itself. it would hurt the bottom line, it would make women pay for the inefficiency of governments, which we don't want. under these circumstances, we have chosen to insist on the fulfillment of those requirements over which we have both control and the means of action. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to ensure coherence between other community policies and development policy. otherwise, some aspects of the external trade policy or the common agricultural policy may interfere negatively with our objectives. given the significant differences in the gender dimension of member states' policies, we believe that the implementation of the european commission's roadmap on gender equality within the union is a necessary precondition for a real and effective empowerment of women in development cooperation, a policy largely managed by member states. new forms of aid seem to have weakened the focus on women. we call for an assessment of their gender impact and appropriate corrective measures, in the context of accountability and transparency of the spending of funds we have towards european citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, gender equality and women’s empowerment are values and principles that we all praise in the european union. as such, they definitely need to be shared with the developing countries within the framework of existing cooperation. we all have a huge responsibility when addressing them because promoting double standards would morally outlaw us, and we certainly lose credibility. i am referring specifically now to the amendments tabled for voting today, the same amendments that were rejected by the committee on development. i fear that we risk using different yardsticks when, on the one hand, we express these values to our development partners and when, on the other hand, we use them inside the european union. we cannot afford to exclude references to reproductive rights from this report because this is a core topic when we target the promotion of women’s rights and their empowerment. as the report correctly emphasises, women’s full enjoyment of their sexual and reproductive health and rights is a prerequisite for achieving gender equality. the protection of reproductive rights, such as planning their family in terms of birth timing and spacing, and decision-making regarding reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence, provides women with the freedom to participate more fully and equally in society. we cannot go only halfway towards our partners and claim at the same time that our goal is to have healthier and stronger women who are able to participate actively and equally in society. please excuse my tough words but to me this is mere hypocrisy. we will fail to achieve these goals if we start by excluding core issues or give a different impression of our principles, different to what we have back home. in today’s world, promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment in the developing countries is not an easy task. reaching these targets implies a genuine commitment and action and, most of all, it implies our good faith in our relations with developing countries.
today we're discussing another report that looks at the situation of women, the second one this week, but this time from the perspective of equal opportunities in community development. it's a report that has generated discussion and controversy, different approaches and contextualized analysis. but it's important that we discuss such a topic, it's much more important that the proposals relate to a specific context and tangible results exist. we talk a lot about education and its fundamental role in changing attitudes, shaping behaviors, integrating at-risk groups and developing communities. i think it is time, however, for a coherent european education policy with clear steps to be followed. it is clear that the gender dimension must be an integral part of the educational curriculum. it is important that the european union also includes this issue in its dialogues with third countries in the field of human rights. the year 2008, the year of intercultural dialogue, should be used to encourage inter-university exchanges and exchanges of experience between european and developing-country women, with a view to affirming the role of women worldwide. in this perspective, the promotion of the younger generation, including girls, must be a priority of development cooperation. i thank you and hope that in the final version of this important report all the views of the european parliament will be taken into account and that we will have a balanced approach to the matter.
there's a lot of good in this report, and i'm going to support it, but i'm going to vote against the aberrant amendments of the political right on reproductive rights. i want to tell you that it is very clear that sustainable development cannot be achieved without rethinking the role of women in the economy, society, politics, the environment and the family. we identified and we spoke today that education is a key area for development. given that equality of opportunity is primarily a matter of stereotypes and education, i propose that the commission support member states in including gender equality issues in their education programmes. what we need now is concrete and firm action, such as increasing budgetary resources to improve the economic and social conditions of the family, and i am convinced and we have the political will that we will achieve, achieve these goals.
in writing. − the resolution calls for the creation of an innovative financial instrument to support the implementation of projects financed by the fund to transition to a low-carbon economy and adapt to the effects of climate change. developing this type of economy through projects financed by the fund also means creating new jobs, fair conditions for social development and closing gaps. in this respect, the particular support given to smes to access financing for their projects from the erdf is welcome. i voted for this resolution because i believe that these two lines of action, namely reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to the effects of climate change, must be pursued in parallel, through coherent and convergent policies that have a positive impact on the development of the labour market/job creation and gdp growth.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. what happened in armenia should be strongly condemned, but unfortunately, it is not a surprise. these events are partly similar to those that recently occurred in another country in the region and represent a continuation of the situation that existed after 1990. we are facing the consequences of several factors that have existed since then and still exist today: insufficient economic development, latent conflicts, the influence of the russian federation. to all this was added the example of kosovo which, despite the considerable but futile efforts of the authors, will set a precedent for all concerned. for the people of the region, all this creates insecurity, distrust of authority, a predisposition to easy manipulation. there is only one solution to return to normalcy: economic development, which will generate a rise in people's living standards. there are energy resources. the development of these and transit will solve both the problem of economic development and dependence on the russian federation and will also solve the problem of europe in general. the european union has not been involved enough and if we want to find solutions to the problems in the south caucasus, it is imperative that the union be actively involved in the development of the energy routes in the black sea.
madam president, croatia has a european vocation: the recent invitation to join nato and the current negotiations to join the eu are a testimony to that. this is quite an achievement for a country which only a decade ago was practically at war. equally, however, that is not enough to eliminate the challenges still facing both croatia and the eu on the way to completing those negotiations. the timetable is extremely tight; practically each day counts, irrespective of the different dates advanced for the finalisation of the process. however, when i visited zagreb some time ago at the head of the delegation from the committee on foreign affairs, i took note of the determination of the croatian authorities to do away with those problems and achieve membership of the union. in this respect, the recent decision of the croatian parliament to exempt the eu states from the application of the ecological and fisheries protection zone (zerp) following commissioner rehn’s visit, is both a testimony to that determination and is an important step in the right direction. i am convinced that, with the right administrative capacity to implement the required legislation, croatia, in both the eu and nato, will be a solid factor of stability and progress in an area that still needs our full attention. i congratulate mr swoboda on all his work reflected in this report.
in writing. i believe that the debate on the 2007 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia should draw two key conclusions: the need for the country to make continuous and steady progress towards integration into european and transatlantic structures, and the importance of promoting the young generation in this republic. the european and transatlantic perspective of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is unanimously recognised and the 2007 report welcomes the efforts made in this direction. but i would like to reiterate the importance of continuing these reforms. i also hope that respect for the rights of ethnic and national minorities will continue to be a priority of the macedonian government in order to ensure a robust system of protection for all communities, including romanian-speakers. finally, i stress the need to promote the young generation of this republic. it is essential to provide all the conditions for a high-quality education in a spirit of intercultural dialogue and mutual tolerance. the mobility and free movement of macedonian young people should be considered a key priority of the country's relations with the eu.
in writing. i would like to make a comment on the recent nato summit in romania and the implications of the decisions taken on some union issues. among other important decisions, it was decided that bosnia and herzegovina and montenegro, as well as serbia, would benefit from increased cooperation with nato. it was also decided that ukraine and georgia could receive the accession action plan through a simplified procedure when they are ready. these decisions are good for the european union: the intensified dialogue and the action plan mean, among other things, more democracy, and more democracy at the eastern borders will reduce the scale of the challenges in the field of internal affairs. more democracy and institutional reform in neighbouring countries, such as ukraine, means more protection at the external borders, more control over organised crime, means a new step in spreading the values that are the foundation of the european union.
in writing. the european union's most successful foreign policy has been enlargement, the integration of new member states. the continuation of this policy should be shaped in the near future by the accession of croatia to the union. hungarians in romania are of course keenly aware of the ethnic conflicts in the world, and we have also followed the contemporary history of the former yugoslavia. the biggest lesson of this history is that majority intolerance, ethnic intolerance, extreme nationalism can easily set a region ablaze. croatia is an example in the region, both in its political development after the yugoslav wars and in its economy. the accession of croatia to the european union must not be delayed, and support for enlargement by the member states must not be waived. we must give the whole balkan region the prospect of eu membership, whether it is serbia or kosovo. the forthcoming accession of croatia to the european union will contribute to the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of south-eastern europe and to the stability and development of the region. with its recent and exemplary history, croatia has proved that it is an integral part of the european family.
the recent demonstrations in ljubljana have brought the issue of the gender pay gap back to the fore as a negative factor in achieving the desired social cohesion. although we have made important progress at union level, there is still a 15% gap, and in romania it is 13%. i want to draw attention to a persistent problem in the public sector, namely that the areas where women predominantly work - health, social care, education, light industry and public administration - are among the lowest paid. i welcome the support given by commissioner špidla on the issue of eliminating wage differentials and i consider it necessary to accelerate the measures contained in the related action plan, in particular point 2 - wage differentials as the main component of employment policies.
more than a year after the accession of romania and bulgaria and almost nine years after the start of the bologna process, eight european countries do not recognise university degrees and other qualifications obtained in these two member states. romanian citizens are often discriminated against when they want to take up a job or continue their studies abroad. the non-recognition of diplomas also contributes to a reduced participation in european student mobility programmes, especially in the field of postgraduate studies. for example, a romanian student would not be able to participate in an erasmus mundus-funded master's programme at a university centre in one of the eight member states that would not recognise his or her basic university degree. this constitutes discrimination against nationals of a member state and has the effect of limiting the chances of obtaining european funding for academic mobility. the european commission has recently condemned this behaviour. i think that the european parliament should take the same strong stance in this respect.
against the background of climate change and in a context where primary natural resources, especially energy, are becoming increasingly scarce and expensive, the common agricultural policy can be an effective instrument in achieving the objectives of the european union. on the other hand, non-compliance with community rules on agricultural expenditure is currently leading to the recovery by the european commission of no less than eur 83 million from eleven member states. it's not a very large sum; but since the common agricultural policy is financed by public funds, i believe that the european commission should be more involved in helping the member states, especially the newly integrated ones, so that such irregularities are greatly reduced and food security and safety is indeed an achievable objective in the european union.
the commission will soon propose a further amendment to the directive on heavy vehicle access charges to transport infrastructure. by june 2008, the commission shall, after examining all options, including environmental, noise, congestion and health costs, present a general applicable, transparent and comprehensive model for the assessment of all external costs, which shall define and serve as a basis for the subsequent calculation of infrastructure charges. any revenue thus collected should be reinvested in the related infrastructure. road hauliers need parking spaces specially designed to allow drivers to rest in complete safety for themselves, their vehicles and the goods they are transporting. i believe that the member states should be given financial support and at the same time be obliged to invest more in the construction of safe parking areas and in the improvement and development of transport infrastructure.
i would like to take this opportunity to speak to the european parliament's plenary about the historic nato summit, hosted by bucharest, the capital of romania, from 2 to 4 april. we all know the importance of nato, both for the security of the euro-atlantic area and for the democratization and prosperity of the newly integrated states. this was the case for romania in 2004, and we hope it will be the same for croatia and albania, the countries invited to join nato in bucharest. i am convinced that the name crisis in macedonia will also be resolved through dialogue with greece, so that another trusted partner of the european union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, will be invited to join nato. we also know that joining nato is an important step towards integration into the european union. as a member of the alde group in the european parliament, i welcome nato's opening up to ukraine and georgia as a decisive signal for the entry of these countries on the european path. i am confident that we too, the european union in general and the european parliament in particular, will be open to further encouraging ukraine and georgia to take the right path, the european path.
i would like to raise the issue of leukemia patients who die every day in romania or in the member states, unable to do anything because some countries are not included in the international register of unrelated donors. in europe there is a register, but unfortunately not all member states have access to it. in romania, however, this register does not work. this shortfall has led to a much higher mortality rate in romania than in the other member countries. every day hundreds of young people die for the simple fact that they don't have access to this registry. but this issue is not a priority for the current government in romania. i would like to see member states having equal access to this register. this would reduce the illicit trafficking of organs and give leukemia patients a chance at life, regardless of their financial situation. i also believe that patients should be eligible for a bone marrow transplant based on the severity of their condition, not their nationality. given that i voted today in favour of commissioner vassiliou's investiture, i ask the commissioner to find a solution to this problem. all european institutions, including the parliament, should support an information campaign.
last week, romania had the honor of hosting the nato summit in bucharest. as rapporteur for regional cooperation in the black sea, i would like to welcome the organisation of this crucial event in the black sea region, but above all the explicit recognition of the strategic importance of this area. i hope that this recognition will mean consolidated and concrete efforts at the level of the european union and nato to transform the black sea into an area of stability and prosperity and to ensure the security of the entire european continent. equally important is the recognition of georgia's and ukraine's transatlantic aspirations. the path of these two countries towards nato membership must be irreversible and 2008-2009 must be a significant year of progress in this direction, both by the two countries and by nato. in conclusion, i welcome the fact that the member states of the alliance have shown flexibility and long-term vision, thus making the bucharest summit an important milestone for nato enlargement and the further development of the security system.
mr president, the european union is the largest exporter in the world today. this position is also due to the economic diversity of its member states, some of which rely mostly on services and others on manufacturing. in order to sustain the leading position of european exporters, we have to make sure that they compete in a fair global trade environment. the community trade defence instruments that are meant to provide assurances for european economic operators in international trade need to be reformed. the use of the trade defence instruments has to be more accessible, more efficient and more transparent. the reformed community trade defence instruments need to be equally accessible and efficient for stakeholders from both service-based economies and economies that have strong manufacturing sectors. they need to be equally accessible to the new and old member states. the temptation of protectionism has to be strongly discouraged.
i would also like to congratulate the slovenian presidency on introducing this subject and, of course, the commissioner on the fact that this subject is being discussed with you today. i want to emphasize the importance of having quality services for the screening, detection and treatment of this disease. i also believe that it is important to certify institutions with responsibilities in the field of cancer treatment and also that the governments of the member states should adequately fund these institutions. last but not least, i stress the importance of the social integration of these patients; they must not consider themselves as disabled persons and therefore i believe that the psyche of these patients can help them in their fight against this disease.
in writing. the commission communication on the mid-term review of the sixth community environment action programme (eap) confirms that climate change, biodiversity loss, health and resource use are the most pressing environmental challenges and that it is therefore essential that this programme becomes an important instrument in the eu's sustainable development strategy. taking into account the measures implemented so far under this programme, it is unlikely that the priority environmental objectives will be achieved by 2012. for example, the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 will not be met, and the proposed strategies for protecting the marine and soil environment will not deliver concrete results by 2012. at the same time, measures taken to improve air quality, such as those set out in the thematic strategy on air pollution and the targets for reducing ambient noise, are not sufficient to achieve the map targets. nor is the problem-solving and reluctance of some member states to apply the habitats and natura 2000 directives adequately addressed in the commission's communication. once the n2000 site designation is made, it is necessary that conservation objectives are formulated, promoted and monitored. this review draws attention to these issues and calls on the commission to pursue ambitious environmental performance.
i would like to congratulate mr rübig on his report and to make a few points. supporting small and medium-sized enterprises investing in applied research is essential for the economic competitiveness of the european union. the 22 member states and the 5 eureka countries that have decided, together with the commission, to invest the €400 million to support research by small businesses are contributing to the objectives of the lisbon strategy. we must not forget that smes represent 99% of all european enterprises. the selection of projects to be funded under the eurostars programme will be based on scientific excellence and economic impact. i would point out, however, that it is difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises to secure 50% co-financing of a project. many small businesses prefer to allocate their specialists to projects that bring in quick income, to the detriment of research projects that are long-term. the funding of small enterprises on the basis of a business plan could also make it possible for as many smes as possible to participate in european research. i hope that during this programme also the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs will be continued.
i would first like to congratulate mr rübig on the correct and prompt handling of this report. this report sets the stage for a new approach to the lisbon strategy by simply including research by smes. we are thus giving a new value to competitiveness and a new impetus to start-ups, to smes with innovative activity. eurostars must become the starting point for the relaunch of european economic activity, a programme of european innovative stars, a transparent, flexible and non-bureaucratic programme. i would like to conclude by inviting the commission, together with all the states involved in this programme, to encourage and promote this programme, which is closely linked to the european priority themes of climate change, energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy sources and, not least, the fight against cancer.
on behalf of the pse group. the research fund for coal and steel was set up after the expiry of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, the first treaty on which the european union was founded. europe has large coal reserves, but we need to invest in new, less polluting processing solutions. steel is still a product used by many industrial sectors, but research is needed in this sector to identify less polluting and more energy-efficient solutions. the importance of this research is all the greater as there are a large number of jobs in both areas which need to be preserved and whose working conditions need to be improved. this research should lead to better working conditions for employees in both sectors. in romania, about 34 million tons of coal are mined annually and about 8 million tons of steel are produced. in the two industrial sectors, the number of persons employed directly or indirectly is several hundred thousand. that's why i think this document is extremely important.
i would like to draw attention to some budgetary aspects of this report, starting with the immediate political priorities of the european union. the commission proposal refers to the green energy charter and its stated objective of increasing the use of coal as a major energy source, subject to the use of clean, carbon dioxide reducing and storage technologies. actions eligible for european funding from the research fund for coal and steel include pilot projects and demonstration projects of the latest technologies in the field. the problem is the extremely small budget allocated to this fund: 57 million euro per year. i find it difficult to imagine how this sum could cover a significant number of projects across the european union. i would remind you that over a quarter of the countries of the european union still use coal as their main source of electricity. i believe that greater financial involvement of the european union in this sector is needed, both through the research fund for coal and steel and through the programmes of the seventh framework programme.
my intervention is based on a number of considerations: firstly, i am glad that steel and coal are back on the agenda of parliament, albeit less frequently. i believe that europe's economic strength lies in having the best steel possible at the lowest possible cost, so the results of joint research should be shared at community level. there are regions in many european countries which depend very heavily on coal and steel production. the reconversion of the coal and steel producing workforce is still unresolved and these regions have unfortunately fallen into the category of regions with living standards problems and need cohesion programmes. finally, i ask myself, rhetorically, whether europe will end up buying steel and coal from outside the community, if it does not want to align itself with the european union's environmental protection programme.
madam president, i appreciate this report, but i would like to make some remarks. the topic of the cultural industries is closely connected to the topic of the economic value of culture. culture is now referred to in terms of means towards economic growth, and many studies now emphasise the economic impact of cultural activities. in this context, i recall the study the economy of culture in europe made in 2006 by a private consultant, kea european affairs, that presents some impressive numbers for the cultural sector; however, these numbers are debatable since mp3 players, mobile phones and publicity are also considered by this study as ‘culture’. therefore, we feel that focusing on such economic aspects may lead to confusion, and important things such as creativity or artistic potential may be put in second place if they do not turn out to be sufficiently profitable. i am in favour of a cultural policy that supports cultural diversity, artistic creativity and the development of the artistic potential of individuals and communities: these are all guidelines that i think we should keep in mind for future action.
i congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague, mr vasco graça moura, on the way he has managed to deal with the relatively large number of amendments to this report. i was personally delighted when the committee on culture and education of the parliament approved by a large majority my amendment on the study of the history of the european union in all the member states. the construction of the european union must be studied in such a way that young people are aware of the stages of the formation and development of the european union. i think that to know the culture of a country, each of us must know the history of that country. to draw a parallel with the european union, to know and understand european culture in a globalised world it is necessary to learn the history of european construction, all the more so since, from 2009, the new treaty of the european union will come into force, we will all be european citizens, and every citizen has the obligation to know his or her history. my initiative is to prevent, in the future, situations where young people learn parallel histories, which have no basis in reality. and because the european parliament has just celebrated its half-century, i think it deserves a history that promotes european cultural identity and culture in the context of globalisation.
it is more than welcome that, in the year of intercultural dialogue, we should be discussing a genuine european agenda for culture, to be promoted both within the european union and internationally. i therefore welcome the preparation of this report, which rightly underlines the importance of this area and the need to mobilise its full potential. culture is the foundation for promoting the values of peace, democracy and tolerance, as well as for productive economic growth that can meet the challenges of globalisation in the 21st century. the report makes a number of recommendations, but i would like to stress two points. firstly, at the domestic level, it is essential to involve local and regional actors in the promotion of culture as a factor for economic development and the implementation of the lisbon strategy, but also for the consolidation of cultural heritage and the promotion of cohesion in contemporary society. secondly, it is in the interest of the european union to promote culture and intercultural dialogue at an appropriate level in its external policy. in this area, the countries included in the neighbourhood policy must be the priority beneficiaries of these actions.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank you for the discussion and especially for such a positive and constructive atmosphere, because it shows both the culture and the responsibility for an agenda that is important. i just want to make sure that never in the union, although i am one of those who came along with enlargement, has the cultural agenda been as visible and as central as it is now, and of course it is not an agenda, but rather a process, a progress, an implementation. but what has been achieved in recent years, for example the european commission's position as the community's representative and the unified representation of the european 25 and 27 at unesco for the first time in history, is the result of a certain maturity in the field of culture. the fact that a few months ago the member states agreed to introduce an open method of coordination in the field of culture was not expected by many. the fact that we have a permanent forum for culture, that we have a year of dialogue between cultures now in 2008, and that it is consistent to declare 2009 the european year of creativity and innovation - i consider this a huge step forward. on the other hand, culture has a dual character, it has an economic dimension, but it also carries content, meaning, and is therefore specific and not exclusive in european law. and that is precisely what is needed in individual cases or disputes, so that european law is valid, but takes into account the specificity of culture, the need to maintain and consolidate cultural diversity as our heritage, our characteristic. i agree, and i'll end by saying that we need to invest more. the commission proposed a budget of 500 million for the cultural programme, but only 400 million was approved. perhaps in the future, or through other programmes, cultural aspects could also be supported, and i was very pleased when we added up the structural contributions in the individual structural operations of the 27 member states, that there is a cumulative allocation of roughly eur 5 billion for culture for the period 2007-2013 across the union through the structural funds. so if we're smart, we can connect both the potentials and the resources and the policy, and that's my responsibility, which i want to assure you of and rather invite you to cooperate and implement this agenda. and thank you again, vasco graça moura. thank you for your time.
in writing. – i wish to use this opportunity to outline some major issues presented in the graça moura report on the ‘european agenda for culture in a globalising world’. first, the social situation of artists: i agree with the fact that we should work out an appropriate legal framework in the areas of tax, labour and social security for artists and performers. we should also focus more on the preservation of cultural heritage. the culture programme is good, but is not enough, and i support the idea that we should have other programmes alongside it, more focused on the preservation and promotion of european cultural heritage. last but not least, i wish to emphasize the need for an effective partnership between the public and the private sector. in order to overcome the present challenges, culture should be partially funded by the private sector. therefore, a european arts sponsorship scheme should be created as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. our institution's budgetary guidelines for 2009 are the basis for the european parliament's budget this autumn. but beyond the amounts and programmes, this year's budgetary guidelines also address a matter which i consider very important: the legal situation of assistants in the european parliament. i want to thank mr. lewandowski for bringing this up. i believe it is time that the old system became clearer and more transparent and ensured for all these young people the same social and tax rights as the other members of the staff of the institution. for these there are the staff regulations of the european communities, a very comprehensive document which ensures that staff working in the institutions of the european union have adequate social protection. parliamentary assistants are also, for the most part, citizens of a country other than the one in which they work and should therefore enjoy the protection afforded to all workers in international organisations. i do not consider it normal that there should be cases in which assistants are subject to additional tax obligations by the belgian state, since they pay all their taxes and social security contributions in the state of their nationality. but parliament needs clear rules for assistants also in situations such as illness or maternity. in several resolutions, the european parliament has already asked the secretary-general and the working party on the status of assistants and the pension fund to draft a new set of rules to address the problems facing assistants at the moment. i believe it is our responsibility to the european citizens that there should be only clear and transparent rules within this institution.
the establishment of the climate change commission was driven by the direct impact that climate change has on the planet, threatening the existence of humanity as a whole. we are discussing the european treaty, we want to strengthen the community institutions, we are making plans for the future. we have to be very careful, because we may not have to. our health, our economy, our ecosystems, our way of life, europe as we know it is in great danger. the scientists have made their position known, and i have agreed with them overwhelmingly. the studies are very clear and we can see here in brussels how on one day the weather phenomena of all four seasons occur, which is clearly not normal. the mandate of the climate change commission is very clear: it must analyse the current situation, take stock of the prospects for combating climate change and make concrete proposals for eu policy in this area at all levels of decision-making. today's resolution contains a very large number of proposals for action by the commission. however, in order to have an effect, i believe that these proposals should be further developed and possibly included in the commission's final report, together with suggestions for the timing of their practical implementation. moreover, it is imperative that the european institutions propose as soon as possible a clear strategy to be negotiated internationally. it is useless to take action in europe alone. we need to be the global climate change advocates. only concrete measures, which take account only of the arguments relating to the stability of citizens' lives, can mitigate the effects of climate change, and these measures must be implemented in the shortest possible time.
climate change is becoming more and more evident and humanity needs to change its behaviour, paying more attention to environmental protection. europe is already experiencing very hot summers, with periods of drought followed by heavy rains and flooding, violent storms, desertification of vast areas, particularly in the southern and eastern areas. romania has not been spared the effects of climate change. in recent years, we've had devastating floods, heat waves, violent storms, desertification in the southern and eastern regions, decreased rainfall. all of this has resulted in loss of life, extensive damage to property, and a decline in agricultural production. europe must act decisively today to reduce the effects of climate change. europe must take action to improve water management, flood protection, wastewater treatment, coastal protection, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, cleaner agriculture, cleaner transport and forestry. special attention should be paid to areas that are becoming desertified. europe should consider investing in an irrigation system that supports member states at risk of declining agricultural production as a result of desertification to build or improve their irrigation systems. i congratulate the commission on the green paper on a new urban mobility policy. 20% of european motorists could use public transport. reducing the speed limit will also help to combat the greenhouse effect. the introduction of aviation into the emissions trading scheme is a step forward. the inclusion of shipping in this scheme is now being considered. unfortunately, the current union budget does not sufficiently and coherently integrate the actions needed to mitigate climate change. the climate change budget is modest.
in writing. − as head of the romanian socialist delegation, i would like to explain the delegation's negative vote on the resolution on tibet. in fact, the resolution is not defending human rights and we cannot accept that human rights fall hostage to geopolitical agendas and interests. it is lenient with respect to human rights and hypocritical, because it is forceful in proposing political solutions that do not take into account the realities in china. through this resolution, the eu is losing its credibility, promoting in reality, behind its statements of support for human rights, a dangerous agenda of "political autonomy" and independence for tibet, in clear contradiction to the "one-china policy" principle. at the same time, the eu is losing its encouraging influence on china in the process of opening. consequently, the resolution stands for the partition of china and not for the support and promotion of human rights, which are being used as a pretext for pushing forward different geopolitical agendas.
mr president, a few weeks ago, together with mr von wogau, the chairman of the subcommittee on security and defence, i visited the eubam mission in odessa, ukraine. its mandate is to help ukraine and moldova manage their common border better, by providing both expertise and support. once there, we could see that the mission, through the quality and professionalism of its people, has managed to build a solid reputation of professional authority useful not only in passing on expertise to its counterparts, but also in mediating between them on important questions of mutual interest. moreover, by flying the eu flag as the only embodiment of our union in that large and important area, the eubam mission is a very efficient ambassador for our institutions, thus contributing to the concrete implementation of both our security strategy and our neighbourhood policy there. it has most certainly set an example worthy of being applied in other areas of interest to us.
in april, bucharest was for the first time presented in all media channels only in a favorable light, on the occasion of the nato summit held in romania. many did not believe that our country could organize a summit of such a magnitude: 3000 officials from 49 countries, 3500 journalists, the bucharest summit with the largest participation and the most complex agenda in nato history. i would like to highlight three major conclusions of the summit: croatia and albania have been invited to join nato; nato will install an anti-missile system complementary to the us shield - this shield will protect nato states not covered by the us shield; nato leaders have committed to increasing their forces in afghanistan to fight the taliban, to share the burden of military operations and to limit restrictions on the use of their troops.
deforestation has reached an alarming global rate of 13 million hectares a year. the phenomenon is closely correlated with excessive deforestation and illegal trade in wood products. we could continue to turn a blind eye to the slaughter of forests, assuming that we europeans have efficient systems for protecting biodiversity and consumers. in the eu, about 50 per cent of timber imports from tropical countries and 20 per cent of timber imports from eastern europe and the russian federation come from illegal sources. so we are contributing to the illegal deforestation in the amazon, and moreover, the phenomenon is also widespread in eu member states such as estonia, romania and bulgaria. we must have a consistent and honest approach to the problem of illegal logging and trafficking both in third countries and, above all, in the union. i therefore ask the european commission to submit without delay a legislative proposal that only legally verified wood and wood products can be marketed on the european market. i have therefore put a written statement to the ep and i encourage my colleagues to join us in the fight against illegal logging.
to make the most of the opportunities offered by globalisation, the union needs to modernise its social policies and invest heavily in human resources. since the 1990s, social protection spending has remained around 28% of gross domestic product. between 2000 and 2007, the number of jobs increased by 13 million, while the unemployment rate fell from 9% to 7%. at the same time, some 80 million european citizens are living below the poverty line. the risk of child poverty is 19% in the european union. the lisbon treaty underlines the importance of the union having a social market economy. social changes taking place in the context of globalisation relate to unemployment, pension reform, tax reform, poverty reduction and investment in education and childcare. education can play a vital role in compensating for socioeconomic disadvantage and in opening the way for the successful development of the child. member states also need to improve their health systems and tackle poverty among the elderly.
in the light of the report on volunteering, i would like to highlight the importance of these actions in the countries newly integrated into the european union, namely the role of volunteering in the field of economic improvement and social cohesion. romania, like other countries in the european area, has timid actions in the field of promoting volunteering, although european policies on waste recycling, reducing carbon emissions, environmental protection, can be applied and motivated by involving politicians, together with young people, in volunteering actions. the impact is so powerful that it can trigger a favorable reaction from the state institutions and contribute to changing the mentality of a generation. i would propose that volunteering be included in the education system and interregional project-based programmes to establish links between citizens of the member states. i propose criteria for symbolic incentives for those who take part in voluntary actions and ask for the help of the european commission and the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to say very clearly that i cannot imagine that these three institutions would not work together. the same is true, i assume, when it comes to parliament working with the commission and with the council. this is our common treaty, our common achievement and our common task. i can only pass your words on to president barroso, but i am sure that everybody is fully aware of this responsibility.
in writing. i would like to highlight a few aspects of the article which reaffirms the importance of the principle of solidarity in this report. cohesion policy still accounts for around one third of the european union's annual budget. however, we cannot fail to note that this area is becoming less and less important in relation to the increases in competitiveness policy for growth and employment. for example, compared to 2007, budget line 1a - for competitiveness - increased by 18.4%, while 1b - covering the area of cohesion - increased by only 3.1%. in addition, we must take into account the effects of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on cohesion policy. the structural funds - which are currently non-compulsory expenditure and on which parliament has the final say in the budgetary procedure - will be the subject of a joint decision by the council of ministers and parliament. however, it is known that each year the council makes substantial cuts in the european sums devoted to cohesion policy. i therefore believe it is important to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, without neglecting the disparities that still exist between european regions.
in writing. support for the european parliament's motion for a resolution on eu policy actions on organ donation and transplantation. i call on the european commission to propose a more comprehensive directive setting out the quality and safety requirements for the donation and transport of organs for transplantation in the european union. this directive would also provide for ways of preventing possible abuses. the new legislation will have to complement and strengthen the efforts of the member states to improve the current situation by imposing guidelines at european level, taking account of medical advances. i insist on the involvement of member states, including my home member state, romania, in educating citizens by presenting the benefits of organ donation and raising awareness that organ donation and transplantation means lives saved. i also support the involvement of the european commission in organising public debates with relevant european non-governmental organisations to identify the best solutions, both in terms of the communication campaign and the exploitation of the experience and good practices of the member states. speed of reaction in such cases is essential. better organization of the national health system is needed, as well as increased awareness among paramedics of such emergencies.
in writing. the shortage of organs that has led to the rapid development of commercialisation and transplant tourism is a major health problem facing the european union. organ trafficking is caused by a combination of factors such as poverty, corruption, or crime, which is why eastern european countries are the most exposed to this phenomenon. to prevent this 'transplant tourism', the environment committee report calls for organ donation to be done altruistically and voluntarily, without it becoming a source of profit for the donors. member states should take measures to protect the poorest and most vulnerable donors from becoming victims of organ trafficking. however, there are considerable differences between eu countries in the way donation and transplantation is organised, the donor community and the sources of organ harvesting. for example, the low number of donors in romania is due to the lack of an effective donor identification system and doctors trained to coordinate the organization of a transplant. because of this, the european average for the number of donors is 20, and in romania it is only 0.5. we need the right technical and logistical infrastructure, as well as psychological and organisational support to reduce the gap between supply and demand.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and the special way in which she has dealt with this subject. i've been following this report closely as volunteering is a major issue in today's society. the positive effects can be measured in terms of social cohesion, protection of human rights, healthcare, promotion and organisation of cultural, artistic and educational activities. the effects are paramount for the population and the economy. but this activity is underestimated, in my opinion, and too little known in the public sphere. the consequences are dire for voluntary work, since there is not enough government support, even though it may take up a considerable part of a country's economy. as a member of parliament from a post-communist country, i can speak of the very low threshold for voluntary participation in my country. because the communist regime had introduced compulsory unpaid work to serve the state, this practice is associated in the subconscious of the population with a memory of that period. today the proportion of volunteers in romania is much lower than in most member states. the activity is often unknown to the citizens, the policy of the state does not encourage it, and the mentality of the people is not in favor of this activity either. citizens need to be informed of the positive effects of volunteering. on the other hand, abusive situations that have been encountered, such as organisations that have adopted this legal status for the sole purpose of making a profit, must be avoided. i support volunteering as an important activity and want it to be promoted and supported throughout the european union, especially in post-communist countries where efforts need to be strengthened.
i would like to ask you to allow me to appreciate without reservation the relevance of mrs harkin's report in the context of the discussions on the new economic, social and european model and the constant efforts to improve economic and social cohesion at european union level. i look at the report through the lens of the solutions it identifies, a text that offers a set of generous and very useful principles that can lead to an increase in the quality of life of european citizens. i would argue, as i did when the amendments were tabled, that it might have been desirable if the report had more firmly defined the modern concept of volunteering, by explicitly stipulating the conditions under which any voluntary action would not be interpreted as a unilateral act. i would also like to emphasize the role of churches in implementing the christian principles of volunteering.
i would like to stress two issues which i consider very important in relation to the european commission's discharge. the first concerns the co-implication of the member states in the implementation of the european budget. although for 80% of the european budget we have a joint management procedure between the commission and the member states, i believe that new measures should be introduced to increase participation in all phases of the budgetary process. as regards control, i support the introduction of national declarations, to be examined by the court of auditors of each member state, which would hold governments and paying agencies accountable for the fair and objective allocation of community funds. however, the measure of suspending all payments in case of deficiencies should be used with great caution and only in cases where serious problems are found in the administration of european funds. the worryingly low absorption rates in the new member states are the second particularly important aspect of the budget discharge. it is not normal that in all the new member states the absorption rates are, on average, more than 30% lower than initially expected. for me, this signals not their inability to absorb european funds, but possibly excessive bureaucracy on the part of the european institutions.
the report by mr pomés ruiz, section i - european parliament, i voted in favour of the amendment which prohibits members of the european parliament from employing family members. and i think it is a correct text and i welcome the fact that the european parliament's plenary has adopted it. the reason is very simple: in a number of eu member states, including my home country, romania, there is a whole debate about the credibility of parliamentary institutions and parliamentarians themselves. i think this is a correct position all the more so because, and i will give an example, even in my country of origin, romania, the head of state himself has often set as his political objective the discrediting of the institution of parliament and parliamentary action, starting from some mistakes or vulnerabilities related to the activity of the parliamentarian. that is why, once again, i welcome the adoption of this text, which can lead, along with other actions, to an increase in the prestige and credibility of the parliamentary institution in the member states and at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the contribution of volunteering to european social cohesion, but i would like to make some financial and budgetary clarifications. the european union has launched the european voluntary service under the youth in action programme. it enables young people to undertake apprenticeships in various professions or work with non-governmental organisations in another member state. the operators of this service are companies and ngos accredited by the european commission in each member state. the budget of the european voluntary service is problematic, however. this is a sum of not more than eur 42 million per year, which should finance the travel costs of several tens of thousands of european volunteers, as well as other minimum related expenses. the interest from young people is very high, and there are many organizations that want to implement this program. in romania alone, a new member state, there are over 60 accredited organisations for volunteer exchange and over 5000 applications for such placements. although it has proved to be a highly attractive programme, the european voluntary service continues to be inadequately funded.
in writing. according to eurostat, in 2007, real prices of agricultural products in the union increased by 5% compared with 2006, the highest increase being recorded in romania (15.8%). in europe, the price increase for both milk and poultrymeat was 7.8%, with the highest price increases for crops being recorded for cereals (45.4%) and forage products (11.5%). again, romania recorded the highest increase (29.2%). last year in europe, the producer price of agricultural products increased by 4.6%, while producer costs increased by 5.3% and the level of subsidies decreased by 3.1%. in the new member states, the costs of farmers have risen very much and subsidies are very low. the largest declines in income per farmer were recorded in bulgaria (-18.6%) and romania (-16.1%). the low value, non-payment of agricultural subsidies and difficult access to credit for agriculture made it impossible to apply cropping technologies, thus achieving very low yields per hectare. competition for agricultural land use is also contributing to the rise in food prices, with the area under biofuel crops increasing by 13.6% in 2007 compared to 2006, and by 31.5% compared to 2002-06.
in writing. the latest developments in global agricultural markets are creating a situation that few governments are prepared to deal with. dramatic price increases, especially for basic grains, risk pushing millions of people into hunger. this new reality must be addressed by governments and the european institutions. the new level of agricultural prices presents new opportunities for producers, including those in eu countries. in romania, 40% of the population lives in rural areas, many of whom are agricultural producers. the new realities of agricultural markets present a chance for farmers to improve their economic performance and, by implication, their standard of living. unfortunately, the agricultural segment reacts very heavily to price changes in world markets. small producers face a stiff bureaucracy and are at a disadvantage in negotiating procurement contracts with large, dominant retail chains. the eu must support small farmers so that they can benefit from higher incomes from their labour. market access for small farmers must be facilitated and global distributors must be subject to transparent regulations that prevent anti-competitive policies.
the legislation we are discussing today has the potential to improve the lives of more than a million european citizens working in another member state as service providers or posted workers. in particular, the provisions of article 3 of the directive are not fully implemented in every member state of the european union. the health and safety standards, the maximum number of hours of work and minimum leave periods or the maternity protection measures do not apply to posted workers. at the same time, the minimum wage laid down by the legislation of the host state must be guaranteed. this last aspect, however, leads many firms to resort to alternative employment contracts, which automatically prevent lower wages. in addition, it has become a practice for many european firms to hire workers from the new member states and send them abroad as posted workers for a period that can be extended up to 24 months, thus taking advantage of the differences in social security contributions. i conclude by saying that this kind of social dumping must be stopped by implementing all the provisions of the posting of workers directive.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague ms ana gomes for her work and her comprehensive and realistic assessments. as the report shows, china is already an important economic and political partner for africa. regarding africa’s development, i believe that there is so much work to do on this continent and that china, as a new player, should be welcome to participate. however, what i strongly fear is that instead of channelling its support in constructive endeavours – health, education, poverty reduction and infrastructure – china would continue to engage in feeding the tragedies of the continent and will do it by arms trafficking and undermining whatever steps african countries make towards democracy, good governance and respect for human rights. the chinese ship carrying guns for zimbabwe again calls into question china’s real commitment to contributing to peace and security in africa. many african countries welcome their cooperation with china as there is no political conditionality linked to the economic benefits, but the eu should continue to strongly advocate, both to china and the african countries, institution building, human rights advancement and more transparent rules regarding the exploitation of natural resources. recent developments have shown that, even in those cases where in the last couple of years governments started to show more openness on how public money and resources were spent, they have gone back to a less transparent administration. the eu has the duty to help china to become a trusted partner in development cooperation.
the value of china's trade with africa increased from eur 2 billion in 1999 to approximately eur 39.7 billion in 2005, and china is now africa's third largest trading partner. this very clearly demonstrates the major interest that africa represents for china's global interests. the resolution has some very important conclusions which deserve to be stressed once again. we have to make it very clear that our expectation is that china's involvement in africa is not just about the nations that are of interest from the point of view of energy policy. we should also encourage china to provide unconditional assistance to african partners, and that the economic conditions attached to international subsidies or loans do not undermine the objective of sustainable development. it is more important for us to see what we are going to do, what the european union is going to do in this situation. i agree with commissioner louis michel when he said that unfortunately the european union is not taking advantage of its unique position in africa. the european union needs to redirect a larger part of its current budget for financial support to infrastructure projects that have the capacity to attract foreign direct investment. finally, a stronger european presence in africa must be transformed from a wish into a reality.
mr president, i think that human rights and women’s rights should also be a high priority in the relationship between the european union and latin america. i would like to draw your attention to a specific situation in nicaragua. the ban on therapeutic abortion, which was legally imposed in 2006, has already had tragic consequences on women’s health, with all victims of rape, such as a nine-year-old girl or a paraplegic twelve-year-old girl, obliged to go through with their pregnancies although their own lives are at stake. moreover, lawyers and human rights defenders are themselves under criminal investigation for incitement to commit crimes, merely because they challenge this inhuman legislation or because they defend doctors. this is unacceptable and the european union cannot afford to be silent. last week, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe adopted a resolution on access to safe and legal abortion in europe, which means that we care about women in europe. but, if we want to convince our citizens that human rights are values that we genuinely treasure, we must prove that we do not apply double standards with regard to partners with whom agreements negotiations are ongoing.
historical, social and political conditions in latin america have placed women in a doubly difficult position: on the one hand, they are largely responsible for economic production, especially in rural areas. on the other hand, they are the preferred victims of forced displacement and dispossession, human trafficking, violence, sexual exploitation, and public control over reproductive capacity. under these circumstances, having a gendered approach is not only desirable, it is necessary. we therefore ask for your support for an oral amendment to support women's empowerment and respect for their rights.
mr president, for me it is obvious that the eu still has no say in the negotiations with the us. the twin-track approach is just proof of the council and commission’s failure to protect european interests and citizens. the fact that member states are left alone to negotiate bilaterally with the us undermines our credibility and strength on the international scene and it might be to the detriment of our citizens whose data might be exchanged without any democratic scrutiny. i believe that member states should act in a european framework and i want the commission to show determination and make our us partner understand that equal rights and equal treatment are not negotiable. the etas that will be put in place could be a positive evolution as entry applications would be evaluated on the basis of each individual and not according to the country of origin. this would be a first step for equal treatment. no matter the nationality, we have to make europe without internal borders a reality and ensure equal treatment for all europeans.
the european commission now has increased negotiating power following the mandate given last week by the member states' interior ministers. in addition, we come after a series of productive meetings with the us representatives, the latest of which was the eu-us troika on justice and home affairs on 13 march. i believe that the three principles adopted on that occasion should be emphasised as much as possible, in particular the common objective of eliminating visas as quickly as possible. despite significant progress, rejection rates in some member states continue to rise. in romania it reached 37 percent, almost 10 percent more than the previous year, even though our country has meanwhile become a member of the european union. this development unfortunately takes us further away from the 10% target set in the visa weaver programme. at present, only concerted action by all member states can resolve this issue of visa reciprocity between the european union and the usa. we must ensure that by the next eu-us summit, our position is uniform and unwavering towards visa liberalisation for all european citizens, based on a very well-established timetable.
mr president, the intention of both the council and the commission in stressing their determination to negotiate with the us on the removal of visas on behalf of all european citizens, as well as the preparatory technical steps to be taken to that effect, are commendable. however, a gap has already appeared between the multilateral negotiations the eu is preparing to initiate, which is likely to take time, and the concrete results already obtained by some eu countries through bilateral negotiations with the us. after all, we are all aiming for the same result – the elimination of visas for travelling to the us. it is just that we are confronted with an option – either to wait for the multilateral negotiations between the eu and the us to take off and get it later, or to enter bilateral negotiations with the us and get it much sooner. to force the eu member countries to choose the less attractive option for the sake of a false solidarity, which is not respected by many eu member countries with regard to other, much important matters – like energy for instance – is at least morally wrong, all the more so since half of european citizens are already exempted from visa requirements through earlier bilateral negotations with the us.
i believe that there is a special status relationship between the european union and the united states. most member states are part of nato and participate jointly in ensuring security in europe and other countries when needed, without any differences between them. however, there are differences in the granting of visas to the united states, which are based on criteria that are not sufficiently clear and transparent at this time. the main criterion, under 10% of visa refusals, is a criterion that depends exclusively on the us authorities and not on the citizens applying for visas. the european institutions have so far failed to conclude negotiations to the benefit of european citizens. this has led to each member state seeking independent ways to resolve the situation. it is a good thing that these negotiations have intensified recently and that they can be conducted in parallel by the european union and the member states. it is imperative that one of the negotiated topics be the criteria for granting visas. only clear and, above all, transparent criteria will make the necessary information available to citizens before they apply for visas.
romania is among the european union member states whose citizens require a visa to enter the united states. contrary to the actions of other member states, romania has so far avoided engaging in effective bilateral negotiations with the united states, although its partnership with the united states and the presence of romanian troops in iraq and afghanistan would have allowed it to invoke bilateral solutions to the visa problem. i support a common approach of the eu member states and a mandate to the european commission to quickly identify a solution for visa exemption in the united states for citizens of the european union, including romanians. a real, consistent and effective negotiating effort is needed from the european commission. otherwise, in the last resort, against the backdrop of pressure from the romanian public opinion, which cannot be ignored, romania will have to find a quick solution through bilateral negotiations with the united states, just like other eu member states that have solved their american visa problem, disregarding the common position of brussels. finally, i regret the absence from the debate of mr frattini, who would have had the duty to fight for fair treatment and free movement for european and romanian citizens and not to promote discriminatory policies for romanian citizens, community citizens living and working in italy, most of whom are properly integrated into italian society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the council regulation on the continuation of the implementation of european satellite radio navigation programmes. the galileo project, which is part of these programmes, will have multiple applications, being used for traffic management, transport logistics, disaster prevention and response, commercial and government services. since the first debate on the 2008 community budget, the european parliament has considered this project a priority and has called for the necessary funds to be allocated and for the interinstitutional agreement to be revised to make this possible. as of march 2009, the egnos programme will become operational and by the end of 2013 the galileo programme should also become operational. the budgetary resources required for the implementation of the galileo project are estimated at eur 3105 million for the period 2007-2013. the european parliament and the council of the european union recognise the strategic importance of this project and support its implementation. the european commission should therefore regularly inform the parliament and the council of the state of play of the project's implementation. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs barsi-pataky, on the way in which she has worked with colleagues from all the political groups on this regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the adjustment of the multiannual financial framework presented by my colleague mr böge. the amounts not used in 2007 from the commitment appropriations for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the rural development fund and the european fisheries fund should be reallocated for subsequent years. thus, eur 2 034 million will be transferred, in accordance with point 48 of the interinstitutional agreement, for the years 2008 to 2013. the amounts will be allocated predominantly in 2008 (approximately 56%), so that the influence of this transfer will be insignificant in the period 2000-2013. we need to look at the reasons why these funds were not used. firstly, there are 45 operational programmes which were sent to the european commission late for approval. 72% of the necessary programming is due to delays in rural development programmes. some of these were sent to the commission in december itself, making it impossible to adopt them in 2007. national institutional constraints and lack of previous programming experience are some of the causes of these delays. most of the 45 operational programmes that are delayed come from the new member states. i ask the commission to support them more in mastering the new procedures and in training the staff assigned to use these funds.
the chairman of the council. − it was extremely interesting to be present at this dynamic debate. i think it was conducted in conditions where we all know one thing: legal migration is one thing. these are the ones the european union needs, legal migration. the second is illegal migration, and these are the ones that need to be fought, and these are the ones that are the subject of today's debate, that are on the agenda of today's debate. certainly the presidency is one of those who believe that illegal migration is a phenomenon that must be fought because they usually have a criminal background, they are backed by organised crime companies, and they don't care much about what people go through trying to get them into the european union in this case. i must say that i do not agree with those honourable members who feel that the council is avoiding this debate. i also cannot agree with those who think we are still only talking. the council is not avoiding this debate. it was the slovenian presidency that organised the conference on the future challenges of the management of the external borders of the european union in march this year, and all or most of the issues raised in today's debate were discussed at this conference, and this conference was held at ministerial level. i certainly agree with mrs hennis-plasschaert that it is time to act. and its very absence is proof that we are dealing with an action, because it is present at a very important event - the final phase of the trialogue on the return directive, which i hear is going well and may be concluded successfully today. this is an important aspect of the fight against illegal migration, the return directive. and if it is adopted at first reading, which is the wish of the slovenian presidency and which we believe is also the ambition of the european parliament, then we will have a new lever to deal more effectively with the phenomenon of illegal migration. the issue of solidarity, of course, has a great political charge in a problem such as this one of illegal migration. but it should be borne in mind that certain elements of solidarity are already there: we had the schengen resource 'schengen facility' for new member states, we have frontex, the commissioner has listed important capacities that member states have contributed to the agency in the name of solidarity, and on a voluntary basis. so i cannot agree that there is no solidarity in the european union. there is, of course, room for improvement in solidarity, but this must be taken into account - and i think mr fava has pointed this out amongst others - as external border control is a competence of the member states. why would you do that? because most people want to. it's very simple. so solidarity has its limits, and the limits are the desire of the member states, most of them, to have competence in the control of the external borders. also, as mrs saks has mentioned, member states do not want immigrant quotas imposed on them from the outside or from above, but they want to decide these things themselves. so these are the frameworks within which we are moving, these are the frameworks within which the slovenian presidency is looking for possibilities for progress, and i think we have already succeeded in achieving a certain number of measures, and we are still working on certain others. perhaps i should also say something about reception centres, as mr moreno sánchez has said: the debate on this is still ongoing and very difficult; it is a very politically sensitive issue, it is not a simple subject, and it is likely that the council will be dealing with it for some time to come. mr özdemir mentioned the issue of asylum: there are statistics on asylum, the asylum system at eu level is working, but we are of course trying to make it work better. the first step was taken with the publication of the green paper on the future of asylum presented by the european commission and the council conclusions adopted at the last justice and home affairs council on improving practical cooperation. i'll end here, i could go on about this very interesting and topical topic. i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that your views have been taken into account and will be taken into account in the further course of this debate, and that the slovenian presidency is counting on your cooperation in making progress on this dossier.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to return to the heart of this debate, which is frontex, and i would like to make a few clarifications. mr fava, in particular, insisted on knowing whether the equipment used by frontex was fully operational. it is true that frontex depends on the member states for the technical equipment necessary for the operations coordinated by the agency and, so far, the agency is satisfied with the way in which the member states actually provide the technical equipment they have made available to it in the crate database. so obviously a next step would be to actually put in place a more binding system for member states, through an amendment to the agency's basic regulation. the commission refers to this in its evaluation report and discussions with frontex and the member states will be continued to this end. frontex has concluded technical agreements with the majority of member states on the conditions for using its equipment. it is obviously beyond the means of frontex to buy very expensive equipment. but the commission recommended in its evaluation report that frontex should buy or lease the equipment that is used frequently: night vision goggles, small radar equipment, heat detection devices, etc. i also want to say, since mr moreno sánchez raised these points in particular, that there are geographical areas which are particularly exposed. we could say that we could imagine permanent operations centres here. frontex is working on it. so there are many other questions and i apologize for not listing all the speakers, but i have made specific notes. many of you have raised the question of whether frontex as such can come to the rescue of shipwrecked people. it should be remembered, however, that the responsibility for the care and rescue of shipwrecked persons lies with the member states. frontex has no mandate in this area. that being said, i think it is safe to say that in the operations coordinated by frontex many lives have fortunately been saved and more and more should be saved, because what we have been told here and there by all these absolute tragedies represented by these shipwrecked people, poor people who have often been exploited, is obviously a major concern in these operations. i would like to repeat briefly what the president and the minister have just said, and to recall that, as mr gaubert has said, the main point in all this is that europe should start to manage migration flows. and to manage migration flows, we will not actually do it only through frontex, through external border surveillance. it is clear that we need a legal framework which will gradually enable europe to have a response which is a european response to all these migration problems. and i have to say that one of the big tasks that awaits me is to write a new communication on this comprehensive approach to migration, which must indeed take into account all the aspects that you have raised. i would add that a successful migration policy cannot be achieved without close cooperation with the countries of origin of these immigrants. and what has been said on this subject is that all efforts are welcome to strengthen this cooperation with the immigration countries. as you have just pointed out, mr minister, the trilogue on the text of the return seems to be progressing. it is also one of the cornerstones of this overall immigration policy. of course, this policy must be global, it must also be based on solidarity. there has to be solidarity. we have talked a lot tonight about the rescue at sea, but there are also the eastern frontiers of europe. of course, and i will end on this, the treatment of illegal immigrants must be done in accordance with the fundamental rights to which europe has attached its vocation. so all this requires a truly comprehensive approach, one which is both humane and at the same time extremely serious and rigorous if we want europe not to be a fortress, but open, but open under rules which seem reasonable to us, respectful of people and, at the same time, also attentive to the success of integration efforts in the various member states. because there can be no successful immigration policy without integration. i simply wanted to say that, apologizing to the members for not answering all the questions asked, knowing that i will be listening to parliament to try to lay the foundations for this comprehensive immigration policy.
in writing. the external borders of the european union, whether they are land or sea, protect all member states from possible threats from illegal migration, trafficking and organised crime. the tools proposed by the european commission in the development of frontex, namely the high-performance border surveillance systems, technical equipment and rapid intervention teams are certainly welcome. but the effort to strengthen the borders must be a joint, european effort and not a singular one of the states on the border. in addition, measures need to be taken not only at the union's border but also at the borders of the states neighbouring the union. recall that political stability, the development of democracy, the economy and the raising of living standards in the third countries neighbouring the union will considerably reduce the pressure on the borders; therefore, cooperation with the competent authorities of these countries is a major priority. the projects advanced by the commission urgently need adequate funding so that they can be put into practice in the nearest future.
the meeting of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in bonn will also discuss the issue of forest biodiversity. this is a sensitive subject for which no lasting solution has yet been found. forest biodiversity is threatened by illegal logging that is taking place around the globe. they result in substantial and largely irreversible reductions in biodiversity. in addition, deforestation is the third largest contributor to global warming. pech expressed its position on the significant climate impact of deforestation, the long-term economic benefits and the importance of keeping forests intact in its november 2007 resolution on trade and climate change. i also welcome the eu's initiative through the action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade. i have mentioned actions at european level which, unfortunately, are not producing the desired results. for example, in implementing the action plan, 70% of eu countries failed to take any concrete action by april 2007. we need to find a global solution as quickly as possible. i encourage the eu delegations at the bonn conference to support the drafting of a standard definition of what constitutes illegal logging and to support the rational exploitation of forests. in addition, i encourage the launch of discussions on the launch of a global mechanism to pursue the legality of logging and trade in timber.
madam president, i wish to stress that the reform of the wto has to be embedded into a reshaping of the whole institutional set-up which deals with the governance of global challenges. just look at the effects of global warming and the financial crisis of huge economic imbalances. open trade has to be fair. in addition it has to be linked with policies that help poor countries to develop, through agriculture in particular. the formidable rises in food prices are going to fuel protectionism and restrictions unless we focus on developing food production throughout the world. the rises in the prices of basic commodities has compounded a very complicated general state of affairs. food will increasingly be seen as a national security problem both in wealthy and poor countries. therefore the reform of the cap, the eu development aid policy and the energy policies have to be examined by considering the dramatic changes in the international context.
on behalf of the alde group. the discussion on the progress of the negotiations on the free trade agreement between the european community and the gulf cooperation council caught my attention in the light of my recent visit to the region with the european parliament's delegation for relations with the gulf states. the negotiation of this agreement was one of the topics discussed at the interparliamentary meetings. gcc representatives said that europeans are pushing for unlimited access to the many investment opportunities, while the gcc's interest is not so much in capital acquisition as in the need for technology and managerial know-how. on the one hand, the negotiations started in 2006 should have been completed, but today they are still ongoing, and the reasons are imputable to both sides. the union considers the gcc members to be lacking in coordination and reform, and the latter complain of an endless list of conditions that the gulf states must meet. some of the most important were mentioned by trade commissioner peter mandelson: market access, product origin labelling, government authorisations, investment protection measures and the criteria for guaranteeing them in the gcc. i therefore believe that by concluding the free trade agreement, both parties would formally commit themselves to economic cooperation with substantial mutual benefits: the development of cooperation in the energy sector, the economic and technological development of the area and, by implication, a greater impact on environmental protection, the creation of a common market and the increase in the level of european investment are part of this. on the other hand, a sensitive debate in the area is about human rights. the union plays a very important role in the international economy, but at the same time it is also one of the main promoters of respect for fundamental human rights. in my discussions with the most active ngos in the region, it was very clear that the free trade agreement negotiations offered an opportunity to put pressure on the gulf states to grant as many civil and political freedoms as possible to their citizens. therefore, when negotiating economic issues, greater attention must be paid to legislation on the rights of migrant workers and women.
member of the commission. − madam president, i thank the honourable members for their comments with respect to the eu-gcc fta negotiations. i would like to stress that the commission will continue to update the parliament on the state of play of these negotiations. i was particularly struck by the honourable members’ interest in the inclusion of a political clause in the negotiated agreement and i would like to assure you that these concerns are indeed addressed in the negotiations. i can also confirm something that was said, that this point was addressed during commissioner ferrero-waldner’s visit to the gulf region last week. in fact, gulf countries expressed their determination to conclude the free trade agreement and recognise the importance of further flexibility on the issue.
member of the commission. − i would like to simply say that we hope that there is. as you know, the meeting that was scheduled for last january did not take place, but we hope that in the forthcoming meeting in may we shall have substantial negotiations. let us hope.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the gulf states, i would like to stress the importance of the signing of the free trade agreement between the european union and the gulf cooperation council in the near future. the conclusion of the agreement in 2008 would be a key prerequisite for the intensification of economic relations between the two regions, and the need to ensure the energy security of the european union reflects the high level of importance and urgency of this issue. given the focus of current trade on energy, it is essential that the future agreement addresses cooperation in this area and its strengthening in a clear and comprehensive manner. this would multiply and facilitate the implementation of joint energy projects, including with eu member states in the black sea region, which would benefit from new opportunities for development and cooperation. it is therefore a priority to establish a well-defined timetable for the completion of the current negotiations, as well as articulating the major goal of mutual benefits, which would lead not only to deepening economic relations between the eu and the gulf states, but also to strengthening stability and sustained development in general.
mr president, i would like to stress that tackling climate change requires more extensive actions than those focusing on transport and energy. avoiding deforestation should also be at the core of the eu climate change mitigation strategy, as a highly cost-effective way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions fairly quickly. avoiding deforestation can be achieved only by a mix of regulatory approach and market-based instruments. civil society has repeatedly exposed the way the eu actively contributes to global deforestation by allowing illegal timber to freely enter its market. it is vital that the eu introduces legislation to ensure that only timber and timber products from legal sources are placed on the eu market. this regulatory approach should be complemented by a set of market-based instruments specifically designed for forestry, such as charges for premature harvesting of forests or incentives for sustainable forest management. however, in order to use market-based instruments more widely in forestry, we need to clarify which instruments work best, to what extent they can be used and how they can be correlated with regulatory law. i call on the commission to present an analysis of the most appropriate market-based instruments for the forestry sector, and to outline the suitable context for these instruments to be used and combined with other policy tools.
it should be stressed that the european union will only be able to achieve its emission reduction targets through the cooperation and strong commitment of local communities. the market instruments used for environmental and other related policy purposes must be known to them. the commission has taken initiatives such as the exchange of emission certificates, the fuel quality directive, the euro standards for vehicles, the directive on the procurement of clean and energy-efficient road vehicles, and the euro 6 standard for vehicles. in october, the commission will come up with a proposal for a revision of the eurovignette directive, based on the internalisation of external costs, including those related to the environment. as rapporteur for the tran committee opinion on the proposal for a directive on clean and energy-efficient vehicles, i think it is important to calculate the cost of a vehicle over its entire life cycle, taking into account not only the initial purchase price but also the price of the fuel used, carbon dioxide emissions, etc. i hope that as many local authorities as possible will participate effectively in these consultations.
i would ask you to accept the insertion in the text of paragraph 22, after the first line, where it talks about the achievement of the millennium development goals, of the following amendment (i read it in english):including the gender dimension in order to empower women and defend their rights;
in writing. - i voted for amendments nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 tabled by the socialist group to the joint motion for a resolution on the commission's annual political strategy for 2009. they called on the commission to break the political deadlock between the working time directive, the temporary agency directive and the directive on the transferability of pension rights. they are vital aspects of european social and employment policy. the amendments call on the commission to honour its commitment to present a legislative proposal on minimum standards for cross-border collective agreements which will enable member states to improve these standards, in particular through collective bargaining. i regret that these amendments did not reach the required majority. i therefore voted against the resulting text as it does not take account of the needs of social europe.
in writing. the emergence of economic and monetary union (emu) led not only to the creation of a simple free trade area at union level, but also gave the union greater political power at international level, set the criteria for the reunification of the continent and the creation of the single currency, the euro, which was able to rival the us dollar. the advantage of emu is that it has ensured low inflation and interest rates for the benefit of consumers and businesses and has encouraged the soundness and sustainability of public finances, and the introduction of the single currency has led to the disappearance of the costs of foreign exchange, facilitated trade and price equivalence in the countries that now constitute the euro area. now, europe is preparing to mark a decade since the single currency was adopted, and even though the southern eu countries are facing a number of difficulties as a result of the single currency, the authorities have not yet complained. analysts explain that despite the changes in the financial markets in the united states, europe has remained stable. i would also say that the success of the euro can also be recognised by the fact that the danes, who initially refused to introduce the single currency, now want the euro. the introduction of the euro remains an important objective for romania at present, with further significant efforts needed to meet the convergence criteria and to increase the competitiveness of romanian firms within the single market.
in writing. 2008 marks the 10th anniversary of the creation of the european central bank (ecb), one of the most daring projects of european construction. ten years on, the results of economic and monetary union are undeniable successes. the exclusive use of economic criteria in the ecb's decision-making and the removal of any political influence in the decision-making process have made this project a success, which has benefited the economies of the participating member states. at the time of romania's accession to the eu, both the government and the central bank assessed the prospect of romania joining emu in 2014. the adoption of the euro in romania implies prior participation in the exchange rate mechanism (erm ii) for a period of two years, i.e. from 2012. for these time horizons to remain feasible, efforts to coordinate the government's fiscal policies with those of the central bank must be continued, and restraint and prudence in budget execution are needed. in order to keep inflation within the parameters proposed by the nbr, the temptations specific to election years must be avoided. the bnr's inflation targeting policy must be supported by fiscal stability, responsible decisions in the romanian parliament and balanced and efficient budget execution at the level of all state institutions.
our debate comes shortly before the meeting between european and american legislators in ljubljana, to which both you, commissioner, and our head of delegation, mr evans, referred, and i am convinced that this meeting will once again underline the need to strengthen the transatlantic dialogue. as the establishment of the transatlantic economic council reflects the need to harmonise the positions of both sides in managing the crises we face globally, especially in relation to the food and energy crisis, but also in other areas. poverty is and unfortunately remains the main enemy of humanity and cannot be alleviated without real cooperation between international bodies and national states, but especially between the european union and the united states of america. finally, let me take this opportunity to ask the european commission once again to help resolve the visa problem, as a sign of the necessary solidarity with the new countries in the european union which have not yet resolved this problem.
mr president, commissioner, distinguished colleagues, i would like to congratulate mrs de kayser and join those who have spoken here about the link between human rights, elections and democracy. i come from a country, romania, that has known years of totalitarianism and perhaps we, who still remember those times, should emphasize much more the importance of holding democratic, free and fair elections. a prominent american academic, larry diamond, recently drew attention to a disturbing phenomenon that he calls "the democratic recession". as recent freedom house reports have shown, 2007 was the worst year for freedom in the world since the end of the cold war. in these circumstances, i agree that before, during and after the elections, the most important task for the european commission, the european parliament and the member states of the union is to develop a common and comprehensive strategy for promoting democracy. i support the idea of supporting newly elected parliaments to consolidate themselves and to legislate as closely as possible to established democratic standards. i would like to stress, however, that not every organizational imperfection is an attempt at fraud, but it is essential to determine to what extent the legal framework ensures the fairness and transparency of the electoral process.
in writing. in 2009, the republic of moldova will hold legislative elections, after which the president of the state will be elected by the parliament. the republic of moldova is on the eastern border of the european union and democratic reforms are needed to bring the state closer to the values of democracy specific to eu member states. this should be done including through the framework defined by the eu neighbourhood policy. the election observation mission in the republic of moldova is necessary and welcome, but the focus of monitoring must be placed, as of now, on the period leading up to the forthcoming elections, given the need to correct serious violations of press freedom by the communist power in chisinau, the repeated violation of the independence of the judiciary and the recent amendments to the electoral law by the parliament of the republic of moldova, dominated by the communist party. on 10 april 2008, a number of amendments were made to the electoral law which flagrantly violate european-style democratic norms and practice. among them are: the prohibition of electoral blocs, the increase of the electoral threshold from 4% to 6%, an unrealistic and undemocratic electoral threshold in relation to the real political situation in the republic of moldova, the prohibition for persons with dual citizenship to hold public office, including becoming members of parliament, etc.
mr president, on 9 may 2008 we will celebrate the 51st anniversary of the european union. for all its citizens it is a good opportunity to look to the future with confidence and commitment. today we are discussing at european level the reform of the common agricultural policy, the future common energy policy, the extension of the trans-european network in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors, climate change and the reform of the union's budget. the lisbon treaty has already been ratified by the parliaments of 11 member states, including romania. the new treaty underlines the importance of a highly competitive social market economy for europe's sustainable development. the functioning of the common market also favours the harmonisation of the social systems existing in the member states. the charter of fundamental rights of the union, which has legal force, confirms fundamental rights. based on the common values of social justice, equality and prosperity for all, european socialists aim to build social democracy, to build a society in which no one is excluded and in which all citizens have equal opportunities. the essence of the social democratic approach is the building of a social europe.
thank you, mr president. members of the house! this week in the european parliament, sport is also on the agenda. the topic has taken on a particular colour in romania. with the final of this year's soccer championship approaching, the pressure on teams and players who could influence the final standings of the championship has been enormous in recent weeks. tv debates, intrigues, fights, suspended matches only because for many it was inconceivable that a team from the capital was not the winner. in the final match, the team from kolsvár maintained its lead. we hope the main problem wasn't that the team in kolozsvár had few romanian players and the owner was hungarian. the clash between police and fans took place in the city where hungarians have been systematically beaten for using their native language for the past two months. this is all because of the constant incitement of extremists against minorities. in sport and politics, we have to get used to the fact that decisions and outcomes can be influenced by a few voices or a central politician, but the outcome is achieved through coordinated teamwork, perseverance, diligence and fair play. thank you, sir.
in writing. the continuing and rapid depletion of deep-sea fish stocks and insufficient measures to protect deep-sea biodiversity require urgent action to ensure the conservation and sustainable use of fish species. although the 2002 and 2004 recommendations of the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) point out that most species are below safe biological limits, the european union has reduced its fishing effort too little to ensure sustainable fishing. the commission communication on the review of deep-sea fish stocks confirms that the current levels of exploitation of deep-sea stocks need to be reduced and that the measures in force have not been sufficiently implemented to be effective. therefore, before adopting new management measures, it is necessary to determine the reasons for the non-application of existing measures and the reasons for the failure of member states to fulfil their commitments or for their delay in fulfilling them. furthermore, the eu must make considerable efforts to fully and effectively implement un general assembly resolution 61/105 on deep-sea fishing zones and the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems.
in writing. consulting and involving as many stakeholders as possible in the development, implementation and monitoring of the application of european legislation is an objective necessity for the smooth running of the legislative process, for correcting errors and for avoiding biased opinions. open dialogue with representatives of all actors involved in this process is the basis of our democratic system and an important source of information, provided it is conducted in full transparency. for this reason, the initiative to introduce a legislative , even voluntary, footprint for both commission documents and reports in the european parliament is welcome. consulting as many stakeholders as possible, including adversaries, and making the process itself transparent are essential for the development of complex and honest legislation covering all aspects of the field, ensuring that all points of view are effectively balanced and harmonised, conflicts of interest are avoided and subsequent shortcomings are prevented. the correct exchange of information on lobbying organisations operating alongside the european institutions will in the long term not only facilitate the legislative process but also ensure transparent and fair cooperation between the commission, parliament and the council, the ultimate beneficiary of which is undoubtedly the european citizen.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr mavromatis on his report. the initiative of a white paper on sport was not only timely but necessary. given the large number of employees in sport, as well as the income generated by sport, we should pay more attention to how labour law is applied in this area; performance is often achieved at an early age, but from here to child exploitation is only a step. we need to make sure that the income from sports activities is legally earned and taxed according to the law. violence in sports is another problem. every year, lives are lost as a result of the clashes between fans. on the one hand, law enforcement and clubs must work together to ensure a climate of comfort and safety at sporting events, and on the other hand, the judicial system must tighten the penalties for acts of violence related to sporting events. in conclusion, mr president, i believe that mr mavromatis' report shows that we need a coherent policy and concrete action at european level to make sport more valuable and efficient, and i hope we will see more initiatives in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr mavromatis and also thank him for his cooperation, as i have proposed a number of amendments to this report. i believe it is essential to introduce free access to sporting events for young people under 14, the establishment of european championships at school and university level, and a 'european day without e-waste in food'. it is essential to adapt sports and school infrastructure to the needs of disabled people, to introduce compulsory medical insurance for high-performance athletes, and to develop european projects to prevent violence on sports grounds. it is essential to create european programmes for pupils with outstanding physical qualities. in conclusion, i would like to express my conviction that by adopting the white paper report on sport, we will contribute to promoting a healthier and more valuable european society.
in writing. i would like to emphasise the importance of physical education hours in schools and high schools in the eu. physical education remains, for the time being, the only discipline in the school curriculum that aims to prepare children for a healthy lifestyle. i appreciate the eu initiative to increase the number of hours of physical education in schools. with the increase in the number of hours of exercise, two important aspects must be considered: attractiveness and the possibility of having different hours of exercise. i base my statement on discussions with romanian students and sports teachers. unfortunately, the lack of appeal of gym classes leads to an increase in absenteeism. one reason is the lack of a proper material basis for diversification. another problem is the lack of special physical education classes for overweight or obese youths. exercise classes are the same intensity for the healthy and the troubled. thus, at times youths are forced to remain on the sidelines of the sports field. here are some of the problems we find in many countries of the european union and for which we need to find solutions. i invite the european commission to come up with solutions and even examples of good practice in the member states.
in writing. when we talk about the revised lisbon strategy, we cannot ignore a sector that employs 15 million citizens and produces around 4% of the eu's gdp. indeed, sport can be an important component of our two major objectives: economic growth and the highest possible level of employment. i would therefore like to highlight some budgetary aspects of the european union's support for the sports sector. at the moment, we do not have a clear reference in the existing treaties to allow our active intervention through programmes and funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment, transport, energy, transport, energy, transport and the environment. i regret that in this week's presentation of the new preliminary draft budget, we did not discuss more about the budget line that can be established in chapter 3 - citizenship in the eu budget. i hope that by the first reading of the budget in the autumn, we will have put forward constructive proposals in this area.
in writing. the cultural statistics published by eurostat in 2007 were based on activities recognised by the member states as falling within this category. unfortunately, sports and tourism have been excluded and i think that should be corrected. i regard the development of sports tourism, the promotion of winter sports and water sports in recent years as particularly positive. the existence of sports facilities within hotel complexes or the creation of tourist routes for cyclists can have a beneficial impact on both the health of the population and the environment. in large european cities, there are already car parks that offer bicycles to tourists free of charge for the duration of the parking period. in my home city of galatia, on may 1, i waited at the finish line for those who had decided to devote their time to a cross. i was especially happy for the children and the disabled who crossed the finish line. education is essential in promoting sports. in romania, construction of several hundred school and high school gymnasiums, both in urban and rural areas, began in 2001. i think this kind of investment needs to continue.
madam president, we have an oral amendment to amendment 3. we want to replace the word ‘churches’ with the word ‘religious’ so the phrase will go like this: ‘[…] should be considered lobbyists and treated in the same way: professional lobbyists, companies’ in-house lobbyists, ngos, think-tanks, trade associations, trade unions and employers’ organisations, religious, philosophical and nonconfessional organisations […]’ and so on.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, but i believe that more can be done to ensure a balanced representation of citizens without favouring interest groups around the european institutions. lobbying has evolved significantly, with over 2,500 organisations now employing over 15,000 people in brussels alone. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the creation of new competences for the parliament and the european union, this trend will be accentuated. while brussels-based interest groups have easy access to the european political process, citizens' groups and non-governmental organisations do not have the same means to make their voices heard in the adoption of european legislation. there is clearly a need to facilitate dialogue between the european institutions and these organisations in the member states. i therefore believe that the commission and parliament representations must play the role of transmitting opinions and various citizens' initiatives to the european decision-making institutions. appropriate budget lines should also be created to finance this activity.
in writing. − the white book on sport is like a russian "matrioshka" puppet: the first is amateur sport, the second is professional sport and the last is football (where the big money is). thus, it gives the impression that amateur sport which is its declared "raison d'etre" is only an allibi for approaching proffesional sport, especially football, which seems to be the main target. the white book is also unequal in its approach: tough on extending the existing rules in traditional fiels like discrimination, illegal immigration, illegal drugs, and competition to sportive activities, but soft when it comes to devising special rules for them, as if the people involved should not be scared somehow. in any case, the white book is heralding a new era of active involvement on the part of the eu bodies in regulating professional sport, mainly european soccer. the good news is that it intends to do it by first talking to the people involved.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions. they have been quite clear on the challenges we face. it is also quite clear, on the one hand, that we have to ensure the balanced development of our work, thus focusing especially on the poorer countries and establishing the fairness that mr crowley talked about; on the other hand, we also have to secure fair trade rules for access by our industry to raw materials. it is a fact that the european union is a net importer of raw materials and that it will remain so. we are now facing stronger competition on our supply markets, as well as rising prices owing to heightened competition from a number of emerging economies. at the same time, those emerging economies are raising barriers to access to their raw materials, thereby distorting competition. fair access to raw materials under transparent conditions is therefore an essential part of the equation in our global competitiveness strategy. the commission’s intention in the years to come is to use all the available instruments to maintain a sustainable supply of raw materials for our industries. in doing so, it will pursue a comprehensive and balanced strategy. as parliament rightly emphasises, that strategy must take into account not only the interests of our industries and our competitiveness, but also the interests of the poorer countries. as regards the development angle, we must, and will, make a distinction between, on the one hand, justified measures maintained by poorer developing countries, such as export taxes, which are indispensable for those countries’ budgets and, on the other hand, measures imposed by emerging economies as part of their industrial policy and which distort competition on world markets. i appreciate mr assis’ comment on r&d commitments, which also need to be increased in this connection. i would like to thank parliament for supporting us on this policy. we will keep you informed on the further implementation of our strategy.
member of the commission. − madam president, first and foremost, i wish to express my gratitude to parliament and particularly to the rapporteur, pia locatelli, and also to teresa riera madurell, who will be replacing her, for supporting our proposal for setting up the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. let me also thank each of the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive support, as well as the committee on budgets for its opinion. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking will have two founding members: the industry grouping and the community. private industry has established the industry grouping, and its members represent a major share of europe’s fuel cell and hydrogen companies, such as car manufacturers, energy providers, developers of fuel cells and developers of their applications. all sizes of companies are represented – from micro to multinationals. the cooperation between the commission and industry during the preparation of the regulation has clearly shown the strong driving force of the industry concerned. the assurance from the public side to provide stable funding on a long-term basis will provide additional confidence. as a result, we can expect a commitment of considerable additional resources from the private sector. in addition to the two founding members of the joint undertaking, universities, research centres and other research organisations are presently establishing a research grouping that is expected to become the third member of the joint undertaking. representation of the research grouping on the joint undertaking governing board was considered necessary owing to the importance of fundamental research to this joint technology initiative (jti). in total, it has been estimated that the creation of this jti will speed up, by up to five years, the delivery of robust hydrogen supply and fuel cell technologies, developed to the point of commercial take-off within the time-frame 2010-2020. i also want to mention its relevance to our efforts in the area of energy technology acceleration, as this jti is a very interesting model for some of the industrial initiatives that we have proposed be set up under the strategic energy technology plan. the opinion of parliament includes a number of very pertinent suggestions for amendments. one example is the underlining of the importance of breakthrough research. fundamental research will be included in the r&d programme, and that will increase the probability of achieving progress and success. another example is clarification of the participation of the joint research centre (jrc) in the activities of the joint undertaking. the jrc has wide competence in several areas that are of importance, and its strong future involvement will strengthen the joint undertaking’s research. both the council and the commission look forward to receiving your input and opinion, as everyone is eager to move ahead and start implementing this important initiative without delay.
on behalf of the pse group. i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and stress the importance of this document. this initiative is extremely important for research. unfortunately, there are often insufficient or sometimes inadequately used funds. the maximum contribution from the european community to the administrative expenditure of this joint undertaking will be eur 470 million. new funding may be granted after 2013, but only for projects for which a financing agreement has been signed by 31 december 2013. i would like to stress that this joint undertaking is particularly useful because it implements and is part of the framework programme research especially in the fields of energy and transport, including aeronautics. i think this report is very important because it supports coordinated research and technological development activities, but this initiative will also support the implementation of the communication and information technology research priorities on fuel cells and hydrogen, but also encourage and increase public and private investment in fuel cell and hydrogen technology research in the member states and associated countries.
), in writing. the peace programme is not only a means of maintaining peace, but also an instrument for promoting economic development and territorial cohesion. its implementation by governments and regional ngos leads to the involvement of a wide range of communities, local organisations and marginalised groups in the governance and development process. moreover, peace funding for regional projects helps facilitate dialogue, reconciliation and agreements aimed at meeting the common interest and thus avoiding any kind of conflict. the european union is committed to the development of a common defence policy and to the promotion of the rule of law in northern ireland. this is why i support the creation of a network of european regions and cities at risk of conflict and believe that the promotion of partnerships at local level, the sharing of best practices and effective cooperation between regions and intermediate funding bodies are key factors in motivating local communities to cooperate and work together to maintain peace. i also call for the implementation of similar peace programmes in south-east europe, particularly in the balkans, all the more so as events in recent years have raised an alarm.
it is clear that a consumer who is well informed about his rights can achieve a higher level of satisfaction and defend his interests. but in addition to knowledge, the citizen also needs a tool at his disposal to be able to claim compensation when his rights have been effectively violated. for this reason, we believe that group actions are necessary and welcome in a form that is efficient for the consumer and balanced for the market. it is also necessary to continue and strengthen the process of surveillance of the internal market. we believe that the existing opinion barometer is very useful and will support its funding in the 2009 budget as well, but we will ask for a greater focus on recording and comparing the prices of goods and services traded in the 27 countries. last but not least, let's not forget that consumer rights also have to work in the service sector, including financial and digital services, where the degree of risk is much higher and the proof of violation of rights is more difficult to make.
i would like to mention, in the context of the european union's strategy for consumer protection, the importance of the quality of services and products. if consumers are already accustomed to having recourse to consumer protection offices for products, this is not the case for services. consumers often sign contracts for the provision of services without carefully reading the contractual clauses and if they do, they feel that they cannot propose changes to them. they do not have the same bargaining power as service providers, although some feedback from consumers could improve the content of contracts and increase consumer confidence. i would like to draw attention to the need to protect tourists and passengers in order to respect their rights, which, unfortunately, they often do not know and do not claim. particular attention should also be paid to electronic services. consumer confidence in digital services is essential for the competitiveness of the european union and, in particular, for the development of the knowledge-based economy. in conclusion, i would like to mention that we must also talk about the quality of public services and, in this context, about consumer protection.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr lehtinen on his consistent report. i would like to make a comment on paragraph 35 of the report. this paragraph refers to the establishment of a european consumer ombudsman within the european ombudsman's office. this proposal seems to me to be a very complicated procedure and not very effective. first, the creation of such a position requires financial resources. we would see a redistribution of funds between the european consumer centres and the eventual new ombudsman. secondly, the bureaucracy at eu level would increase. last but not least, we are seeing an overlap between the newly created ombudsman and the european consumer centres. i do not think that a new instrument would make it more efficient to deal with european consumer complaints. but i believe that effective and thorough enforcement of the legislation will reduce the level of dissatisfaction with the functioning of the internal market. finally, i would ask the representatives of the european commission to take into account paragraph 7, whereby we support the allocation of appropriate funds to consumer organisations throughout the european union.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs van lancker, on her work and to stress the importance of this report. particular attention should be paid to the fact that currently in the european union 78 million citizens are poor or at risk of poverty and 6 million young people leave school early. we, as european socialists, want to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens for a decent living, for strengthening social cohesion. implementation of these guidelines will contribute to more secure and better paid jobs, to ensuring adequate social protection through access to quality social services, to promoting active social inclusion for all union citizens with a view to combating poverty and social exclusion. in this context, i would like to emphasise the care to be given to disabled and older people in accessing the labour market and the elimination of all forms of discrimination in pay between women and men. i believe that this report is an important instrument for achieving the objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy and will contribute to strengthening the social dimension of the lisbon treaty, which romania has also ratified. i will support and vote for this report.
i congratulate anne van lancker on her report. i'm personally concerned about the quality of the jobs. we have 78 million people below the poverty line and because the member states have inequalities in the pay of their employees. i know the discriminatory problems faced by many romanians who work legally in other eu member states, forced to accept jobs with lower qualifications and lower wages than their fellow citizens. unfortunately, there is no mechanism at eu level to assess the quality of jobs, and we should. i strongly believe that the principle of fair pay is an incentive for quality service and i am totally against the existing trends of underpayment of employees and the free movement of labour should not be restricted in any way in the european union.
, in writing. the revised lisbon strategy has led to positive results. however, it is necessary to examine those areas where there is still a need to increase the number of measures taken at community level to achieve the employment objective. i am referring in particular to the problems faced by young people during their training and entry into the labour market. no less than 6 million young people across the european union leave the education system before the age of 18. equally serious is the fact that more than 40% of the total number of unemployed in the european union are young people. moreover, a large proportion of young people who succeed in entering the labour market benefit from less favourable employment conditions, such as part-time, temporary or service contracts. we must, through the legislative guidelines for employment policy, offer more solutions with regard to the programmes and funds that the european union sets up to support the action of the member states in this field.
while awaiting a horizontal directive, we note that we have european and national anti-discrimination legislation, numerous political commitments, and specific institutional mechanisms. despite this optimistic outlook, the degree of transposition, implementation and effectiveness of the measures taken are still very low in many member states. for gender equality to be achieved, fairly paid work is essential. in this context, we propose that the commission initiate an integrated positive labour market action plan to reduce the artificial gender divide in the labour market and the structural pay gaps that still exist between the branches considered female and those considered male. in this context, the introduction of the gender dimension in the preparation of european, national and local budgets is an essential tool for reducing structural disparities and applying the principle of equal pay for work of equal value.
on behalf of the pse group. i congratulate my esteemed colleague mr piecyk and i am pleased to be discussing his report today, when the tripartite declaration on the establishment of the european maritime day to be celebrated every year on 20 may will also be signed. an integrated maritime policy of the union must ensure synergy between sectors of particular economic importance such as: shipbuilding, maritime and inland waterway transport, port activities, fishing, energy, tourism, environmental protection and the protection of maritime heritage. as of 1 january 2007, the union has an outlet to the black sea and the union must promote its common maritime policy in this region as well. there are ten-t project coordinators for inland waterway transport and for maritime transport corridors. the extension of the ten-t network concerns the maritime corridors. unfortunately, the project calls launched so far by the commission for european maritime corridors do not address the black sea region. i ask the commission to draw up studies and projects for the black sea region, which is to become a strategic ten region. i also ask the commission to draw up a concrete action plan for the protection of the delta and estuary areas, and i am referring in particular to the danube delta.
madam president, in my intervention i would like to emphasise two aspects which i consider very important. the first is the river danube, which, through its connection to both ends of the continent, links the north sea with the black sea. its potential is far from being exploited partly because the situation in the former yugoslavia – situated in a central position of the river – has been blocking any initiative. but with the prospect of a final solution so close it will be difficult to justify the lack of a comprehensive initiative to transform the danube into the very waterway of the continent, bringing further economic development to its shores all along its course. the second aspect is mainly political. the maritime approaches to the union are shared with countries which are not member states. therefore the eu has to see to it that its neighbourhood policy and its instruments are so designed as to further the aims of an ambitious target of an integrated comprehensive maritime strategy.
in writing. - i voted for the geringer report because i agree that cultural goods which have left the territory of a member state illegally should be returned to the rightful owner. this report supports the idea of creating a european directive establishing administrative cooperation between member states in the field of the return of illegally alienated cultural property. the directive will require the establishment in each member state of a central authority to deal exclusively with this matter and to cooperate with similar authorities set up in the other member states and with interpol. at the same time, such a directive could simplify the administrative procedure currently in place within the european union and i personally look forward to seeing this draft law put into practice.
in writing. − simplifying procedures is a major objective of the european institutions, which are aware that overregulation is a burden both on their own functioning and on the efficiency and competitiveness of economic operators. for farmers and agricultural producers in romania, reducing the bureaucratic burden is a necessity in order to fully benefit from the benefits of eu membership. statistical reporting needs to be taken seriously by eurostat, but also and especially by national institutes and companies. in the meat sector, the statistical data provide a framework for taking timely measures to regulate the market by setting up intervention mechanisms. statistical reports must be uniform, accurate and available in time to avoid major imbalances in the community market affecting producers, consumers or both. this report is designed to do just that, and i can only welcome it! at the same time, national authorities need to apply rigorously (and, where necessary, decisively) measures that impress seriousness on respondents. the problem must be treated with equal care by both the collector and processor of statistical data and the economic agents who transmit them. in addition to being rigorous, this regulation will also ensure the uniformity of these data by common standards applicable throughout the european union.
in writing. − the european parliament must be aware of the importance of the principle of solidarity, according to which the regions which are lagging behind or less developed must be supported, including financially, from the budget of the european union. about a year after accession, romania continues to dominate the ranking in terms of gross domestic product per capita at the regional level. six of the eight existing regions are among the 15 least developed regions of the eu, and the north east development region from which they come remains the poorest of the 27 member states. romania's economic growth rate is currently insufficient to reduce in a short period the gaps that separate us and the disparities that we find at every step, the extremely low degree of absorption of structural funds is certainly one of the causes that place us in the first places of the poverty ranking in the european union. the excessive politicization of the administrative act at the central level has made romania a net contributor to the eu budget, paying about 1.1 billion euros last year alone. the only consolation is that our country will get back 16 million euros, because 2007 was the first year that we had a budget surplus.
in writing. the main problem of the seven outermost regions is that, although they represent 1% of the population of the european union, they face a delicate economic and social situation, aggravated by their insular position and remoteness from the mainland, their difficult surface, topography and climate, and their economic dependence on a small number of products. by giving priority to the measures listed by the commission and supported by the rapporteur, such as improving competitiveness, reducing accessibility difficulties and integrating the outermost regions into the regional geographical environment, we can help to improve the socio-economic situation of these regions, align their development with the rest of the european union and enhance their resources in complementarity with community needs. this is one of the reasons why i voted for this report, and i would add that greater attention should be paid to ports, given that six out of the seven outermost regions are islands. the modernisation of port infrastructure can contribute to the promotion and development of the tourism industry, the productive sector and local markets.
in writing. − i voted for this report and i consider it important for the progress made, but above all for the future actions to be taken to achieve equal opportunities and to fight discrimination. the report's provisions are among the most progressive pieces of legislation, with real benefits for a significant number of european citizens, with the aim of improving the quality of life. according to data provided by the commission, 51% of european citizens believe that not enough is being done in their country to combat discrimination and ensure equal opportunities. 77% of eu citizens think that women are underrepresented in leadership positions, and 72% think that people over 50 are underrepresented in the workplace. the success of the report is guaranteed by two aspects: strong public support for the adoption of measures to combat discrimination and ensure equal opportunities for everyone, and a strong political commitment by us, the european social democrats, to building a society in which no one is excluded and in which all citizens have equal opportunities. i congratulate mrs lynne on her report.
the chairman of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is mrs ţicău, mr grosch, the honourable members and the other members. in july 2007, the european commission published draft legislative acts, namely a proposal for a regulation on the conditions for the exercise of the activity of road haulage operator, a proposal for a regulation on access to the international road transport market and a proposal for a regulation on access to the international bus transport market. the portuguese presidency started work on the regulation on access to the international freight market, while the slovenian presidency continued its work and opened the remaining two files. parallel to the work of the working group, we also started informal discussions with the rapporteurs in the european parliament. at the april tte council, we ministers held a political debate on a package of key issues, which produced the following conclusions. first, cabotage is a key open issue in the context of the regulation on access to the freight transport market. the majority of member states supported in principle a compromise solution allowing three cabotage operations within seven days of unloading in the host member state. however, several delegations, supported also by the commission, requested that transit cabotage be made available in addition to the empty carriage. the presidency is now working towards a compromise solution within the council. secondly, in connection with the regulation on access to the professions, a compromise must be found with regard to the national electronic register and the transport operator. in fact, we are very, very close to agreeing on a timetable for the establishment of this registry. thirdly, as regards the regulation on international bus transport, it is necessary to continue the discussion at working group level. we have agreed that the solutions of the other two regulations will be applied in a meaningful way in this one. the slovenian presidency intends to reach political agreement on all three proposals for regulations at the tte council on 13 june 2008. i would like to emphasise that we will try to take your amendments into account as far as possible and thus try to bring our positions as close as possible. the slovenian presidency is committed to contributing to the consolidation and completion of the single market. i believe that the rapidly expanding road transport sector is one of the cornerstones of the single market and the free movement of goods and people and that the modernisation of community legislation is essential to improve efficiency, better visibility and ensure fair competition. the slovenian presidency fully supports the objectives pursued by the proposals for all three regulations. i would like to stress that the slovenian presidency is aware of the existing restrictions on the european union's transport market and is therefore committed not only to strengthening the rules and control mechanisms for cabotage but also to enforcing uniform provisions on access to the profession. electronic registers in particular can increase the efficiency and transparency of our business and significantly reduce the administrative burden. in conclusion, i would like to thank the members of the european parliament, in particular the rapporteurs, mr grosch and mrs ţicău, for the excellent exchange of views. i would like to reiterate that the slovenian presidency will do everything in our power to strike a balance between the various interests and at the same time ensure that the solutions we adopt will enable the european road transport industry to improve its efficiency and become more competitive. i am here to express my hope and wish that the constructive dialogue will continue and that agreement with the european parliament will be reached as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − the regulations on access to the international road passenger transport market and to the road freight market, respectively, together with the regulation on access to the occupation of road operator form a package. these subjects are inextricably linked. i am very pleased to see these three texts put to the vote today to establish your position at first reading. i would like to thank your rapporteurs, mrs ticău and mr grosch, and all the members who have contributed to the work. a rapid agreement is necessary for the following reasons: the european council of march 2007 expressed its wish to do so; the sector concerned, more than 900 000 enterprises, wants the conditions for access to the profession to be harmonised in order to benefit from fair competition and clear rules on this narrow but thorny problem of cabotage. fifteen years after the first regulations on access to road transport, the market remains fragmented, with 27 national variants of rules governing access to the profession and the definition of the honour required for access. not to mention, once again, the divergent interpretations of the notion of 'temporary' in relation to cabotage. it was therefore also time to boost progress on the integration of the internal market in road transport. a quick settlement is possible. i have a feeling that your position and that of the council can be even more in line with one another. with the help of the slovenian and french presidencies, i believe that an agreement can be reached soon. i can assure you, at this stage, of my support, at least in principle, for a large part of the amendments proposed by the committee on transport and tourism. since the commission's detailed position on each of the amendments tabled has already been forwarded to the responsible services of parliament, my reservations or comments will concentrate on only a few points. first, the cabotage issue seems to be a major point of this package. but no solution will be good unless it is controllable. the essential quality of the commission's proposal is precisely the clarity, simplicity and controllability of the mechanism introduced: three operations within seven days of an international shipment. this link with international transport is generally recognised and, precisely for this reason, i understand the interest of amendment no 17 to the grosch report, which provides for cabotage operations to be carried out in a transit country on the shortest return route. but the wording of the amendment makes it difficult to control - that is why i cannot support it. however, in order to avoid empty runs, it seems to me that a provision can be made which provides that one of the three operations within a seven-day period may be carried out in a transit country within a maximum of three days. i would have no difficulty in supporting an amendment to that effect. as in amendments nos 18, 37, 40, 44 and 47, which provide that restrictions on the number and duration of cabotage operations will be phased out, with the aim of being phased out in 2014. we have to take account of the market reality in the different member states. tax, social, wage conditions are still very disparate because of the lack of sufficient harmonisation, and i fear that they will remain the same in 2014. the proposed package will certainly contribute to this harmonisation in terms of control of access to the profession, but it could not guarantee a sufficient degree of harmonisation on its own. in those circumstances, an automatic liberalisation of cabotage would have the effect of distorting, rather than strengthening, conditions of competition. a clause for a later review of this matter seems to me therefore more appropriate. it is to be noted that, pending that review, it is self-evident that the regulation in no way prevents member states from fully opening their cabotage markets provided that they do so without discrimination against all other member states or on the basis of agreements between national governments which predate the community rules in force on market access. amendment no 21, as drafted, omits these clarifications and therefore cannot be supported by the commission. as regards access to the profession, the aspect of honour and serious breaches of the law is paramount. the procedure you propose, regarding the withdrawal of the honourable in case of serious violation of the law, seems to me to have a great deterrent, but remains appropriate. i particularly welcome amendment no 104 in mrs ticău's report, which sets out a very clear list of these violations. we can therefore support parliament's proposal on article 6. the european business register is of particular importance for ensuring good repute. and here, in principle, we support amendments nos 70, 72 to 78 and 114, which provide for the rapid and progressive introduction of interconnected national registers. finally, the draft regulation allows micro-enterprises to use so-called external managers. in other words, managers who do not work directly in these micro-enterprises. the 27th amendment sets no limits on this possibility which, in my opinion, should remain the exception rather than the rule. therefore, i cannot support him. i could instead support amendment 109, which provides for a reasonable limit of 50 vehicles. finally, as regards the question of the 12 days, i would like to refer to the former amendment no 102 in mrs ticău's report, which seeks to reinstate the so-called 12 days for coaches. i agree with the choice of the house to vote on this amendment in the context of mr grosch's report on buses. the commission has not yet decided on the content. the social partners are currently working on this issue and we must wait for the outcome of their first exchanges in order not to legislate in haste. a more detailed review of the issue will be required as soon as an agreement is found between these partners, without however slowing down the progress of an agreement on cabotage and the register.
the reporter. - i would like to begin by thanking the commission, the council, the co-rapporteurs, in particular mr grosch, mr sterckx, mrs lichtenberger and all the colleagues with whom i collaborated on this report. the proposal for a regulation on access to the occupation of road haulage operator is important because it addresses the 4.5 million road transport workers and over 900 000 european enterprises. we have tried to have as wide a consultation as possible with those who are active in this field and, to this end, the tran committee held a public debate last october to gather as many views as possible on the proposal for a regulation. the regulation replaces directive 96/26, which was implemented differently by the member states. the proposal for a regulation lays down the common criteria according to which an undertaking has access to the occupation of road haulage operator, a fixed establishment, the operation of an operational centre, access to a sufficient number of parking spaces, the criteria for proving financial capacity, good repute, the role of the transport manager and the conditions which he must fulfil, and i am referring here to the certificate of professional competence and good repute, and the obligation for member states to set up national electronic registers which will be interconnected. the tran committee has tabled 193 amendments to the commission proposal. the parliament, the tran committee, therefore opted for a text which dealt only with serious and very serious offences, the latter being defined in a new annex to the regulation, and for serious offences the commission to come up with a list of offences the repetitive nature of which may result in the loss of a road transport licence. that list will be approved by the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. as regards the national electronic registers to be interconnected by 1 january 2012, they will be based on a common minimum structure to be presented by the commission by 1 january 2010. the electronic registers shall have a public and a confidential section. the public section will contain data on road transport operators and road transport managers and the confidential section will contain data on offences committed or sanctions imposed and will be accessible only by the competent authorities, subject to the provisions on the protection of personal data. i would point out that this confidential data may be kept in separate registers. as regards the issue of a certificate of professional competence, the tran committee opted for the abolition of a fixed number of hours of training, preferring the obligation to take a written examination followed, at the discretion of each member state, by an oral examination. another proposed amendment is that a transport manager be sanctioned only for those acts which are attributable to him. thus, any decision to impose a sanction may be challenged and the recording of sanctions in the electronic register will only take place after a final decision to this effect. the tran committee considered that it was sufficient for a company to be able to prove its financial capacity on the basis of annual accounts verified by a notary or a duly accredited person, on the basis of a bank guarantee or other financial instrument, such as insurance. the 80% threshold for immediate liquidity was therefore abandoned in favour of a minimum threshold for capital and reserves. the tran committee also considers it important that the euro value be set annually, rather than every 5 years as was envisaged in the commission proposal. i also proposed that article 22 of the commission proposal, which set out certain priority rights differentially for the different member states, be deleted and amendment no 52 was introduced, which allows persons who can prove that they have continuously managed the road transport activity for the last 10 years before the regulation came into force to be exempted from examination. i've proposed that the number of vehicles managed by an outside manager be limited to 50, and the number of companies to 4. as regards the internal transport manager, the socialist group proposes limiting the number of vehicles directly managed by a transport manager to 250. we consider this necessary because the transport manager must also have decent working conditions. the commission has also tabled two amendments to the tran committee concerning the 12-day derogation for the rest period of bus drivers engaged in international passenger transport. an agreement is expected between employers and unions and therefore the two amendments will be reintroduced in mr grosch's report.
i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their work and refer to the report by mr ticău. i welcome the introduction of qualitative access criteria to the road transport operator profession in order to improve the quality of licensed operators and not restrict their access to the profession. whether we are talking about people or material goods, the road transport operator profession involves carrying out activities that are indispensable for the economic development of the union in full accordance with the lisbon objectives of boosting economic activity in the european area. i believe that the implementation of this regulation will lead to an increase in the number of jobs, but also to a greater degree of safety and fairness in road transport throughout the european union. once again, congratulations to the reporters.
the chairman of the council. - i agree with all those who say that the matter must be closed as soon as possible. of course, cabotage is a very sensitive subject, which is what we are actually feeling today from your discussions. this also applies to the individual member states. some, of course, are in favour of full liberalisation, others are in favour of partial liberalisation, while some are actually against. the important thing is, of course, that we're going to unify the views here in some way, despite the fact that, of course, there are these differences. we must also take account, i agree, of small and mediumsized enterprises, and especially the environment. i am thinking here, and i want to emphasize, of course, the so-called transit cabotage. it would be absurd not to say that it is unacceptable, that there would be so-called empty rides. however, given the differences that exist, i am convinced that we will need a milestone or, as i would say, a transitional period before full liberalization in the field of cabotage. i hope, of course, that tomorrow parliament will vote in favour of those amendments which will help to unify cabotage services in the european union. and in particular, as i have already said and i say again, to eliminate empty carriages and, of course, to make it possible to carry out cabotage on the return journey. i am also convinced that the differences between parliament and the council are not so great that they cannot be found or agreed quickly in a relatively short time. i also agree with all those who say that, of course, monitoring and control is very, very important in this. i am sure that this will also be done through the electronic register that will be set up, and i would of course point out that we are just about to reach an agreement on the timetable, that is to say, the establishment of this electronic register. and of course, control by the usual means, both digital tachograph and consignment note, which i'm sure you're all very familiar with. of course, infringements are also important, especially those which can lead to the revocation of a licence, and here we must of course be very, very careful and sensitive, and above all sensitive to companies. you have also mentioned the so-called 12-day rule for bus transport a lot, and i can of course say that the council has not yet discussed this. but we are aware, and this needs to be made clear, of the social dialogue between the social partners. we are, of course, prepared to talk about this in the sense of reaching an agreement between the council and parliament as soon as possible. i would like to thank both rapporteurs, mr grosch and mrs ţicău, once again for the excellent exchange of views. the slovenian presidency will certainly do its utmost to reconcile the various interests and at the same time to ensure that the final compromise text will help the european road transport sector to improve its efficiency and, above all, i stress, its competitiveness. i hope and wish that this productive dialogue will continue and that we will of course reach an agreement with the european parliament as soon as possible.
member of the commission. - i am pleased to see the consensus emerging on the essential aspects of the road package. i'm referring specifically to the registry and the withdrawal of certain abilities in the case of serious violations of the law. but it's clear that the cabotage issue is more problematic. but i would remind you that the notion of temporary cabotage, which is now in force, leaves serious legal uncertainties. this is not acceptable for the sector in question. no rule is perfect, but the one proposed by the commission - three operations within one week of an international shipment - is at least clear and much easier to control. it does not introduce more or less cabotage into the member states taken separately, but a better-performed cabotage which is, on the one hand, controllable and, on the other, logistically efficient. for those who want more cabotage, i say that the internal market is being built up gradually and must go hand in hand with harmonization. and since harmonization has been mentioned, i would remind you that certain matters relating to tax, wage and social harmonization are either within the competence of the member states or can be achieved by unanimity. in this context, we can say that a full opening without guarantees and safeguards, with cabotage being by definition temporary, would send us back to the legal uncertainty of today. the european commission therefore accepts that the liberalisation of cabotage is a long-term objective. on the other hand, we will have to monitor developments closely and, in this context, we are prepared to report in 2012. finally, i note the concerns expressed on numerous occasions on the question of the 12 days for tourist trips. if the european parliament is in favour of postponing the vote on the regulation on international passenger transport, the european commission will not oppose it because, indeed, an agreement on the register and cabotage is needed in the nearest possible future, but at the same time, the widest possible consensus is needed between the social partners on the question of the 12 days.
the reporter. - i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken for the points of view that have been presented. i believe that this regulation on access to the occupation of road haulage operator can contribute to a better harmonisation of the standards used by the member states, in particular as regards financial capacity and professional competence, and will facilitate mutual recognition of professional status, contributing to the professionalisation and improvement of the safety and quality of road transport services. as regards the 12-day derogation for the rest period for coach drivers engaged in international passenger transport, an agreement is expected to be reached between employers and trade unions and the two amendments will therefore be re-submitted, in a form subsequently agreed with the social partners, to the report on access to the market for coach and bus services. i would like to thank my colleagues once again for their intervention, the commission and the council for their cooperation.
madam president, in italy, a country worthy of our respect and love, the populist rhetoric has united with extreme-right doctrines and fuelled inter-ethnic hatred, encouraged anti-roma pogroms and prepared the ground for racial laws. in a bizarre way the roma phobia was combined with a romanian phobia. while we protest vigorously against inhuman behaviour and discrimination in burma or other remote places, yesterday the number of meps who thought that the events in italy require more than a complaisant one-minute speech exceeded only by six the number of those who believe that this is not business as usual. the problem in italy is not a roma problem or a romanian problem, as mr daul put it yesterday. romanians and roma are only victims. italians are also victims. the events and developments in italy are only the shocking expression of a tendency which is latent in many other places in europe. and therefore they could spill over in all europe; this is a european problem. to prevent this problem and to cope with the roma challenge one does not need more repression but more integration. one does not need more police but more justice, and especially social justice. one also needs states which function, media who never mix up criminality with ethnicity and a european union which is able to conceive and enhance a truly comprehensive and bold european strategy on roma in particular and on intercultural relations in general. if we do not pass this test, the flames in naples will set fire to all europe.
thank you, madam president. i am sad to say that after tibet and kosovo, we have arrived in the territory of the european union. let us not forget that roma are also eu citizens, eu citizens. social issues and xenophobia are always linked. i would have been very happy if our socialist friends had raised their voices when walter veltroni, the socialist, ex-communist candidate for prime minister, when he was still mayor, confused the roma with the romanians and called for the expulsion of the undesirable elements. third, we must not forget that the minority issue is diverse: roma, new immigrants and national minorities, but all are the same in that all eu countries have to find solutions to their problems. the minimum is that from 2009 we have a minority, human rights commission and a uniform legislation in the european union. and finally, the only thing i can say about the prevention strategy is that the eu should not just play the role of a firefighter, but rather that it should take a stance that without social security, without respect for fundamental human rights and without cultural and territorial autonomy for minorities, there is no europe. thank you, sir.
madam president, when we romanians were a candidate country, we were lectured amongst others by people like former commissioner frattini about the absolute need to respect the rights of minorities, including the roma. now we are members and many of the roma population, as european citizens, have established themselves in other countries, like italy, joining other roma people living there, some in camps which are already 40 years old. i agree that some have committed crimes and have to be punished properly. but to generalise and incite aggressive, negative feelings against all of them, including through false media reports, is not acceptable. if we tolerate this gross infringement of the core european values, which we so much like to invoke, and close our eyes to those responsible, we only invite the worst, which would soon get completely out of control with incalculable negative consequences for the entire union.
i think the title of this debate could have been: 'graves violations of human rights in italy', because in reality we are facing a lack of action by the italian government when a community has been subjected to incredible violence and this has been possible because, unfortunately, in recent months, the racist discourse of part of the italian press, but also of some politicians at the top, reminds us of the worst periods in recent european history. the italian government has an obligation to investigate the perpetrators of these violent acts and they must be brought to justice and the italian judiciary must decide. otherwise, the italian government is in serious breach of article 6 of the treaty on european union. non-state actors, criminals, must answer to italian justice. the italian government must answer to the european union. that is the spirit of article 6 of the treaty.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak after hearing your debate. let me just make a few very brief points. european history shows with perfect clarity that racism, ethnic hatred and intolerance have led to disaster sooner or later, and in all cases. those who don't learn from history must live it over again from time to time. europe's answer to the lessons of history is the concept of human rights. human rights are indivisible and must be protected by all constitutional systems in any territory of europe, in any member state. i think it is the duty of each member state to make and devote sufficient effort to this. let me make one more observation. we talked this morning about poverty and social exclusion. the truth is that poverty in europe is very individualized, very related to personal circumstances with one single exception. if you are a member of a roma minority, practically anywhere in europe, you are, with few exceptions, socially excluded and poor. that's just the way it is. on the other hand, it is clear that the situation of roma citizens is not the same in all countries and that projects and practices are effective and improve the situation. it was also clear in the debate that the situation of minorities is very complex and, as i said in my initial speech, this is certainly primarily the role of the member states, but it is also undoubtedly the role of the european union, the european commission, and that is why i am very pleased that we will be presenting a concept paper to the european council in june this year, which will attempt to revise our current policy, which, ladies and gentlemen, is ineffective. unfortunately, this is true, and it requires our great and vital effort. i think it was also very clear in the debate how easy it is to politically instrumentalize such extreme issues. it is one of the duties of all democratic forces to prevent such instrumentalisation, which makes any effective approach impossible. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the views you have expressed, i think they have made the ambiguity of this question quite clear. i hope there's just one more thing. there were a lot of opinions, and i disagree with a lot of them, of course, just as some of you may disagree with me. but there's one that's totally unacceptable. i do not know which member of parliament said it, but i think you have also noted it.
, in writing. the escalation of violence in italy against romanian immigrants and the roma population is the direct result of the extremist fascist speeches promoted by right-wing and far-right parties in the recently concluded electoral campaign in italy. the italian authorities must bear in mind that the legislative changes they intend to adopt must strictly comply with european standards and not provide for collective expulsions or further promote a xenophobic attitude towards community citizens established in italy. the main problem is not really the crime aspect. this implies individual responsibility and must be sanctioned as such by the italian courts, in accordance with italian law. the priority is a coherent policy of integration into italian society and support from the italian state, including through the use of european funds in this area. we regret the previous position of the liberal government in bucharest and the alde group in the european parliament, which refused to extend the mandate of the european commissioner appointed by romania with issues related to the problem of minorities in europe, including the roma population. romania thus lost an important political lever and the possibility of generating european solutions to the problem of roma integration into european society.
, in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has decided to hold a debate on the situation of the roma community in italy. it is a signal that this problem is beginning to be perceived in its true dimension: the european dimension. the roma problem is so complex that only the mobilisation of the energies of the entire european union will be able to offer a concrete solution to a historical fact. we therefore need a strategy and concerted action at continental level. i ask the commissioners responsible to submit a work plan on this as a matter of urgency. i also believe it is the duty of the european forums to take a firm stand on how the italian authorities intend to go about putting extreme measures into practice. the burning of nomad camps, night raids, warrantless arrests, threats to mobilise the army to fight crime - all of this reflects a climate of painful intolerance for the 21st century and is a dangerous situation for the future of the eu. when it comes to the legalization of the climate of ethnic and racial hatred, i believe it is the duty of the eu to consider the adoption of possible sanctions against a government that violates the values that are the foundation of a united europe.
, in writing. the recent events in italy and the xenophobic attitude of the representatives of the right and far right parties that formed the new government towards the roma population prove that, unfortunately, fascist-type speech and actions are present in europe in 2008. it is extremely dangerous to ethnicise crime and to promote by politicians and the media, through media over-exposure of crimes committed by roma, the idea that all criminals are from the roma population. the offence is individual and must be punished according to the laws of the italian state. the problem of the escalation of violence in italy, both verbal and, above all, physical, against the roma population is a european problem, by the consequences it can have, the solution being an integrationist policy of the italian authorities towards the roma population. the european union has a number of funds available to finance such social integration programmes, which the italian government can and should use. secondly, the community executive must take action against discrimination against certain ethnic groups on the italian labour market, at a time when italy is far from achieving the desired full employment.
, in writing. i welcome the position expressed by the european commission through european commissioner vladimír špidla to condemn violence against roma people wherever they are. i also stress the need for a european strategy on the inclusion of the roma population in the economic, social and political life of the european countries where they are located. in the absence of such a european strategy, each country will seek to solve the problems of the roma population, sometimes using policies and means incompatible with fundamental human rights, with the free movement of people in the european area. in this context, i would remind the european commission that the european parliament approved the resolution for a european roma strategy in november 2007. my country, romania, is making great efforts to include the roma population. results are starting to come in, but the programs in place require more time to evaluate their effectiveness. among these programmes, i particularly mention the training of specialists from the roma population for public administration and the police, the reduction of school dropout rates among roma children, and their integration into universities.
, in writing. one of the fundamental principles of the european union is the free movement of persons. the area of freedom, security and justice must ensure security and, above all, respect for the rights of all european citizens. the current situation of roma in italy calls into question the very common fundamental values on which the european construction is based. on 14 december 2007, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union was signed and adopted. the european union recognises the values enshrined in this charter, in article 6 which recognises that 'the union is founded on the indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity' and 'the union shall place the person at the centre of its action, by establishing citizenship of the union and by creating an area of freedom, security and justice'. article 19 of the charter also explicitly states that collective expulsions are prohibited. i ask the italian government to ensure the rights of the romani citizens in italy and their safety. i call on the italian government to take action against any form of discrimination on grounds of nationality or ethnicity. i ask the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to punish severely violations of the fundamental rights of european citizens and not to allow the adoption of laws or measures that restrict the free movement of persons.
three very succinct elements, my dear colleagues. in the former socialist countries the situation seems even more dramatic as previous gender policies have led to the development of a significant segment of women working in science. instead, the transition has led to a sharp decline in research funding and a decline in the number of researchers. today, the female researchers of yesterday are selling insurance policies, are working or have left their home countries, with multiple negative consequences: waste of human resources, high dissatisfaction and obstacles to development. a second element is that today, mass communication activities, public relations, advertising firms play an important role, including economic, as a share of gross domestic product. they are based on research in the humanities and social sciences, where many women are active. a traditionalist hierarchy of the sciences, however, does not give them sufficient social recognition and functions as an indirect discrimination against women researchers in these fields.
this report has some important financial implications, both from the perspective of the eu funds that can be used to tackle gender inequality in science and from the perspective of the national budgets of the member states. first of all, it is not enough to talk about the funds available under the seventh framework programme for research and development. large sums from the european regional development fund or the european social fund can also support research and development. it is therefore necessary that the conditions laid down in the calls for proposals implementing these programmes should not put women at a disadvantage. moreover, some budget lines need to finance a greater participation of women in research programmes or grants with community funding. beyond this, with the establishment of the european institute of technology, we must ensure equal representation of young doctoral students within the academic component of the new institution.
, in writing. as a maths teacher, i have been directly confronted with the phenomenon of young women's declining access to science. in view of the statistics showing that fewer and fewer young women are going to real-life colleges where subjects such as mathematics, physics, biology or chemistry are taught extensively, i consider the european parliament's draft report on women and science to be appropriate. my experience in education leads me to say that the lower participation of women in science is a matter of mentality and by no means a question of capacity. that is why i think it is important that the european union initiates as many programmes as possible to promote equal opportunities and change the mindset on access to science for young women. organising exchanges and competitions at european level from an early age can give young people confidence and courage, encouraging them to attend schools with a real profile. we need as many european programmes as possible to contribute to equal opportunities by stimulating creativity, logical thinking, intuition and the exchange of ideas at european level.
i too congratulate mr blokland on his report. in response to the accidents involving oil tankers such as the erika and the prestige, the union has adopted international legislation and rules on the phasing out of single hull oil tankers. it is estimated that some 1,300 single-hull tankers will be decommissioned and sent for scrapping by 2015. the costs involved in dismantling ships are very high and make ship recycling economically unviable. in many member states very old ships in poor condition can still be found anchored at shore or even wrecked on the shores of inland waters. in this respect, i believe that special attention should be paid to the delta and estuary areas, where failed vessels can have a negative impact on the environment. often, failed ships periodically block navigable waterways and cause substantial economic losses. since 2005, the international maritime organisation has been working on the implementation of a mandatory international system for the environmentally sound dismantling of ships, a process to which the european union is contributing. the future international convention and the responsible involvement of member states will be essential to resolve the problems of ship dismantling.
climate change is already affecting the european union. romania, for example, has been hit in recent years by drought, floods and heat waves. some areas in the southern and southeastern regions of romania have begun to become desert. the union has taken on an important role in the fight against climate change both in mitigating the causes and in adapting to climate change. the lisbon treaty mentions provisions on climate change and i also welcome the solidarity clause in the event of natural disasters. unfortunately, global environmental governance is decentralised and sometimes lacks coherence in overall decisions. 18 multilateral institutions are responsible for monitoring some 500 international agreements, 300 of them at regional level. the european union must play a leading role in this area. there are solutions. we need to have consistency in climate change action, cleaner transport, research and development programmes, adapting agriculture to a proper water use, reforestation and, above all, better waste management. i congratulate the reporter.
, in writing. clim can make recommendations and offer solutions for future eu policies in this field, recommendations and solutions based on clear scientific evidence and, most importantly, on the strong support of european citizens. the scientific evidence is undeniable. the karl-heinz florenz report is particularly comprehensive, demonstrating that the scientific data are sufficient to make strong political decisions and trigger concrete actions not only at european level but also at global level to drastically reduce the anthropogenic phenomena responsible for climate change and to mitigate its effects. research efforts must continue, particularly in the fields of new technologies, renewable energy and biofuels, to strike the balance between maintaining economic competitiveness, social development and ensuring food and energy security, which are essential for the well-being of european citizens. the scientific community and political representatives need to join forces in supporting public awareness-raising activities and engaging citizens in concrete activities, as exchange of best practices, cooperation and dialogue at international, regional and, in particular, cross-border levels, as well as direct involvement of citizens are the most effective ways to combat climate change.
, in writing. the fight against climate change has become an increasingly common topic on the agenda of international organisations. since the 2007 summit, which set a target of 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the use of renewable energy sources by 2020, global warming has become a priority for all the world's states. this decision was followed by other important international events such as the g8 heiligendamm summit, the united nations council debate on climate change and the bali action plan. as a result of these efforts, an international scientific consensus has emerged that human activities are the cause of global warming trends. , and the results of the research and data collection are sufficient to trigger urgent policy action and decision-making to reduce emissions. the creation of the adaptation fund and the inclusion of forests in a new climate protection agreement aimed at avoiding further deforestation and carbon emissions from forest fires is essential. raising public awareness by communicating scientific evidence of the human impact on global climate will play a key role in gaining the support of eu citizens for policy measures to reduce carbon emissions.
, in writing. we are discussing the accession of turkey. whether this country with its asian heritage can become european. recognition of the armenian genocide, the rights of the kurdish minority and equal opportunities for women are just some of the fundamental issues. while we talk about eu expectations and standards, there are constant problems within the eu with democracy, human rights and minority rights. we're going to have local elections in romania. in temesvár, the past has returned: the temes county electoral commission has accepted by a majority vote an appeal submitted by a natural person requesting the removal of some posters of the romanian hungarian democratic union. the only parties voting against the decision were the representative of the rmdsz, the liberal democratic party and two judges of the electoral commission. the anti-minority, anti-hungarian behaviour of representatives of certain political parties is unacceptable and unacceptable. what do we expect from turkey if we are still facing these problems within the eu? in rome, anti-gypsyism, in slovakia, collective guilt, in themselv, anti-hungarianism... i'm not sure what to say.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, but i believe that we need to put in place a more comprehensive package of measures to guarantee the simplification of the european business environment. i am referring specifically to the problems of setting up a company. eurostat shows that the time required to complete the administrative formalities for establishing a new company varies across eu member states from one day to periods of up to several months. in addition, some member states ranked well below the oecd average in a ranking of the ease with which business can be done in the various countries of the world. finally, the different rules in the 27 member states on company law prevent the transnational movement of capital and the establishment of new companies in a member state other than the home member state. i believe that these two aspects are essential to achieving the growth objective of the lisbon strategy and should therefore be further promoted through the european company law package.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women in science, which i consider vital to achieving the lisbon strategy objectives on growth and employment. in the new eu member states, the number of women researchers is around 40%, compared to around 11% in the west, but unfortunately a very high percentage of them are employed in fields where r & d expenditure is among the lowest. i would like to draw attention to the importance of the article on integrating the family perspective into flexible working arrangements and the creation of childcare facilities in order to reconcile family life with professional careers. the rapid implementation of the report's provisions is seen as essential to support the goal of having 25% of women in research in senior positions by 2010. i congratulate mrs britta thomsen on her report.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to congratulate mrs cizelj and thank her for the openness she has shown in the process of producing this report. i tabled four amendments which are found in paragraphs 18 and 27 of the report. i begin by drawing attention to the need to link industrial development with improvements in social protection systems. all employees in the industry must have decent working conditions. in paragraph 18 of mrs cizelj's report, the european parliament considers that industrial development is closely linked to the availability of an efficient transport infrastructure at european level. a developed transport infrastructure will allow the development of industrial areas outside urban communities. member states may also use regional development funds to create industrial and technology parks in rural areas close to large urban centres. i also tabled an amendment calling on the commission and the member states to support and accelerate the implementation of projects declared by the european council to be of european interest for energy security and the diversification of the european union's energy supply sources. in paragraph 27 of the report, the european parliament draws attention to the need to invest further in education, training and research. industrial development and the competitiveness of european products depend on the quality of human resources and their level of training, and on the innovations embedded in new products. unfortunately, despite the community research programmes and the funds allocated to them, there is too little investment in applied research at eu level, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. they face difficulties in securing the necessary co-financing for their participation in the research framework programme. in this context, i believe that the banking system could prepare financial instruments to facilitate the participation of smes in the research framework programmes.
i want to draw attention to the insufficiency of european funds to support the european union's ambitious climate change objectives. the commission has come up with legislative initiatives which will have a major impact on different industrial sectors, measures which have no corresponding figure in the union budget. i also believe that an ambitious industrial policy must go hand in hand with a european strategy for jobs. the free movement of people, the fight against illegal immigration and, above all, respect for the rights of all european citizens will ensure fair working conditions. respect for the rights of migrant workers in legal conditions in a member state will at the same time allow the rights of all workers in that member state to be protected and social dumping to be avoided.
, in writing. – the european union is the most important global actor and leading exporter of technology in the world today. sustaining its leading position entails a series of challenges. among these, attention should be given to the need to sustain european exporting industries in the global market by ensuring that unfair competition is challenged, while resisting the temptation of protectionism, and also the need to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the eu through the reduction of administrative and market access obstacles. special attention needs to be directed by the eu institutions towards supporting the sme sectors of the economies of new member states, so they can close the developmental gap with their peer smes in the eu. with regard to the opportunities presented by sustainable industrial policies, the eu has to take into account the potential presented by the industries of the new member states. the urgent adoption of a comprehensive small business act will contribute greatly to the development of the sme sectors in all member states, thus also contributing to the reinforcement of the leading role of europe in sustainable and technology-oriented industrial production.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr lehideux for his report. i fully share his opinion concerning the extended geographical mandate of the european training foundation (etf). that agency, which works as an instrument of eu external policy, has the potential to respond fully to challenges addressed by territories like africa, the caribbean and the pacific. the rich experience that the etf has acquired over the years could now be channelled towards areas that desperately need vocational training in order to improve access to learning and social inclusion. most of the countries in the acp area are currently facing remarkable economic reforms, and in order to be successful need human resources. the etf should have the mandate and the resources to respond to such demands. i would go even further and say that when enlarging the mandate of the etf, we should plan to have temporary liaison offices in areas where the activities of the agencies are concentrated. such offices would allow the etf to better organise its activities and would give more visibility to its actions in third countries. i fully agree with the proposal of the rapporteur that more transparency is needed, and i fully share his suggestion to add meps to the governing board of the agency. to conclude, i consider that when it comes to human resources, the european union should take a broader approach. we want to set up the ‘blue card’ procedure that allows skilled workers from abroad to work legally in europe, with the eu probably contributing to the training of those skilled workers. however, as i have already said, skilled workers are also badly needed in their own countries if there is to be a genuine development of those regions. the role of the european training foundation will therefore be essential.
mr president, i would firstly like to congratulate and thank my colleague, johan van hecke, for his remarkable work. his report notes that the approach to development aid needs to be reformed. i can only agree, and stress that this reform should start with a re-think from the roots – namely development policy – upwards. i strongly believe that aid should no longer be limited to help, support or assistance. we should change our mindset and see our contribution to developing countries as investment in the broadest sense of the word. it should be an investment that we undertake on a long-term basis, not just for ensuring the survival of those countries, but also for their real development as functional economies and democracies. while investing, we also need to touch on core issues that could bring a real end to poverty. a couple of weeks ago, during his visit to parliament, professor geoffrey sachs underlined how much influence, in positive terms, the use of unexploited land in africa would have on food prices. instead of providing food supplies to africa, we should transfer agricultural know-how so that the continent can feed its own population and, in a positive scenario, even provide food at global level. i am deeply concerned by another issue underlined in this report: the programming of money flow towards recipient countries. from my experience, projects cannot achieve their goals if resources do not come in time and if they are less than the amount initially planned. that is where the european union can fail badly. in 2007 the level of eu aid decreased. many projects were affected and their goals could not be achieved. last but not least, development education and raising the awareness of our own citizens on this subject should be considered a priority. we, as members of this parliament, have an essential role to play in that respect.
sometimes the road to hell is paved with good intentions. one such intention was to bring the decision closer to the authorities of the states receiving development aid, arguing that they themselves know better what their needs are. true enough, the idea has created a vicious circle with negative effects for women. because they are not present in the decision-making process, their needs are considered minor, and the gender sensitivity of the governors is lower, lower even than in our country, the attention paid to programs dedicated to these needs, especially sexual and reproductive rights, has decreased. what we are witnessing is a dramatic situation. the only developmental goal for which no progress is being made is maternal mortality due to the lack of basic conditions, such as the possibility of a caesarean section, basic antibiotics, contraceptives or qualified personnel. in some cases, the situation has worsened. maternal death is the leading cause of female mortality in many of the fragile states. we call for oversight mechanisms to ensure that infrastructure investment includes health infrastructure and to hold the authorities accountable for implementing measures in this regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the negotiations between the european union and the united states on the visa waiver programme. i voted for the oral amendment proposed by the socialist member for lambrinidis because it calls for the exclusion of any form of direct or indirect discrimination between european citizens, including on grounds of nationality. it thus draws attention to the consequences of a lack of coordination between the community institutions and the member states in international negotiations. i also voted in favour of amendment no 8, which was amended orally by mr gacek. the new text expresses the european parliament's dissatisfaction with the existing situation where only citizens of 12 member states, including romania, are not exempt from visas for the united states. i voted for amendment no 1 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists, which calls on the commission to guarantee, on the basis of the principle of sincere cooperation, equal treatment for all citizens of the member states with regard to visa exemption. i voted for amendment no 2 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists because it states that at the meeting of the ministerial troika on jha on 13 march 2008, the united states recognised the competence of the community to negotiate international agreements on visa policy.
mr president, i want to address a matter of principle, namely the neo-conservative tendencies of this house on the eu foreign and security policy. seemingly some of us believe that the substance of any foreign policy is dependent on the nature of the political regime pursuing it; therefore it looks as though our main objective has become the export of our political model. unfortunately, the european union has neither the decision-making mechanisms nor the means to promote effectively an interventionist policy. we must change this approach, adopting realism as a base of our external action. this means: clearly defining the scope of our foreign policy in accordance with the common existential interests of european citizens; balancing the scope with the resources, while acknowledging that this world contains actors that are different from us and do not always necessarily share our values; learning to operate with them, and giving up narcissism to look for negotiations and cooperation with our opponents, and not only with our friends. certainly we should try to make as many as possible of our foreign interlocutors into our friends, but before doing that and while doing that i believe we have to learn to operate with those who are not like us. i believe that we could be more appealing through our means, through our behaviour in promoting our goals rather than by our targets, thus eventually promoting our model in the world.
mr president, the world in which the eu is called upon to further its integration towards a truly common foreign policy gets more complex every day. the prospect of economic recession, fuelled by the current financial crisis and increasing energy costs, the unsatisfactory status of transatlantic relations and the increasing assertiveness of russia, which confront europe more and more with old-style geopolitical challenges for which it is no longer equipped, are only a reflection of the current international environment. in this context, against the background of increasing eu dependence on russian supplies, energy tends to become the litmus test for success or failure in achieving the aim of a common eu foreign policy, because it makes all the difference whether europe agrees to create a single energy market and consequently approaches suppliers, primarily russia, with one voice, or continues to preserve the current national divides and give priority to bilateral preferential supply contracts destined to satisfy its increasing energy needs. today world politics is first and foremost about gas and oil.
today marks the 88th anniversary of the trianon peace treaty, signed by the great powers of europe at the end of the first world war, which set out security policy decisions that ignored or merely guaranteed the rights of national minorities. the paris peace treaty, signed after world war ii, did not solve the problems. the question of security policy was reduced to guaranteeing the inviolability of borders. most of the borders that existed then have disappeared, and czechoslovakia and yugoslavia no longer exist. the minority issue remains. we hungarians have been to 8 countries, of which so far only slovenia has been able to resolve the rights of the hungarian community in a reassuring way. the report says that progress is needed to ensure effective protection of minority rights in line with european standards. but by what european standards? it would be good to promote within the eu what we expect from the western balkans. as the latin proverb says, "if you want peace, prepare for war". today we want a safe europe. the rights of national minorities must be regulated within and outside the eu by means of the territorial and cultural autonomy that has been established in the western half of europe. thank you, sir.
in writing. i would like to underline the importance of this report and thank the rapporteur for including all my suggestions in its final text. in the context of the ratification of the lisbon treaty and the future responsibilities of the european parliament, it is necessary not only to take stock of the functioning of the common foreign and security policy but also to set out its priority objectives for 2008 and 2009. strengthening the european neighbourhood policy must be a major objective for 2008. as rapporteur for the black sea region cooperation, i would like to stress the importance of its development in the near future. if 2007 was the year of defining the eu's policy towards this area, 2008 must become crucial for the practical realisation of the black sea synergy. it is equally important to mobilise all efforts to ensure the successful and speedy implementation of the nabucco energy project and to resolve the conflicts in the region. finally, the western balkan countries and their rapprochement with the eu must also be a priority in the eu's foreign policy. among the many areas that need to be monitored closely in this region, i would like to highlight the need to effectively protect the rights of minorities, including romani speakers.
in writing. the kuhne report on the implementation of the european security strategy and the pesa is well structured, as it identifies concrete problems and offers possible solutions. i believe that this operational 'checklist' approach will facilitate the monitoring of developments. as to the content, i would make the following observations: 1.it would have been desirable to mention the european security and defence college which plays an important role in developing a common understanding of the esdp through the training provided at the strategic level, especially in the context of the recent letter from the president of the esdc, von wogau, to sg/hr solana expressing support for the work of the esdc. 2.the declaration on eu-nato relations could have contained a stronger message in the light of the bucharest declaration adopted at the nato summit. 3.the importance of improving the strategic partnership between the eu and nato could have been mentioned. the claim that 'a stronger european union will contribute to common security' can be combined with the principle of the indivisibility of the security of allies, which thus also extends to the eu.
mr president, i wish to mention a few issues that i hope will be on the agenda of the summit on 10 june. first, concerning kosovo, it is obvious that it is in no one’s interest to have a new failed state in the balkans, and therefore romania has been participating for years in the efforts to stabilise the region. our concerns deal mainly with organised crime, prostitution and trafficking in human beings, drugs and weapons, and i believe the new kosovar authorities must increase their efforts to control these practices. i also think it is very important to monitor closely how local culture is preserved, especially orthodox monasteries in the area. another issue i would like to raise concerns visas for all european citizens travelling to the united states. i would like to thank commissioner verheugen and minister rupel for raising this issue. as you have seen here, there is very strong solidarity, irrespective of our political colour. i must say that i was very surprised that during the meeting in ljubljana our colleagues from the congress put all the responsibility for this issue on the department of state while, at the same time, president bush used to say that it is the full responsibility of the congress. i hope you will finally find an answer during this summit in ljubljana. finally, i should like to raise the issue of the price of food and poverty.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner verheugen for including on the agenda of the us-eu summit the issue of visas, which is of particular concern to the citizens of my country, whom i represent here in the european parliament, and also to insist that the us join the european union in responding to the challenges posed by climate change, otherwise all european companies will be at a disadvantage in competition with the united states.
the president of the council - let me answer the three questions that i have identified as the most important. first, as regards the question by mr roucek, member of parliament, concerning the missile shield. the question raised by mr roucek is in some ways higher than the question of the european union, because it concerns agreements between individual european countries and the united states of america, and it concerns two countries in particular, the czech republic and poland, which are concluding bilateral agreements with the united states of america. i personally would like to see these issues discussed within nato or within the european union, but this is not the case at the moment, or it is not possible to do so. as i have said, this is a bilateral matter, which is the responsibility of the countries concluding these agreements. as regards the visa waiver programme, which has been the subject of criticism on several occasions, and which has been the subject of several speeches in this chamber, i would say the following: in the field of the extension of this programme, the visa waiver programme, we hope that it will be in accordance with the agreement on a bilateral approach - such an approach was agreed at the meeting of the ministers for justice and home affairs of the european union and the united states - so that progress will soon be made in accordance with this agreement. it has been agreed that the united states will negotiate with individual member states on matters within its national competence and with the commission on matters within the competence of the european community. i said this in my opening speech so we expect the visa waiver scheme to be extended to new member states from the european union by the end of 2008. so far, 11 countries are still outside the programme. i would like to say a few words about climate change, mr president, if i may. so the question was, have we done enough on this issue, or this problem? i am pleased that two important meetings on climate change and energy took place during our presidency, namely the 'high level dialogue on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development' and then the 'strategic energy review'. however, we would like the united states to show greater commitment in this area, and i must say that we will work in the european union to convince our american friends of the importance of acting globally and in agreement between europeans and americans. so far, there are still some significant differences between us. but i should also say that the european union is firmly of the opinion that the fight against climate change should be addressed primarily within the united nations. that's as much as i can contribute to this discussion on my own.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to answer two questions briefly. firstly, cooperation on security issues, which has been very strongly presented by frau in 't veld, and which is about how we find the right balance between the security needs of our american friends and the demands we ourselves make on individual freedom and the individual rights of our citizens. i would like to make it quite clear to you, madam president: the commission fully shares your concerns and i will of course convey to the honourable member the criticism you have expressed about the lack of transparency in the procedure and ask him to ensure greater transparency. we are talking to the americans before we can engage in anything about the principles that should guide us in working together on such matters. if there is no agreement on these principles, there can hardly be agreement on individual issues. this is of course a topic for the meeting in ljubljana next week. i do not want to say anything more about poultry, but it has been raised by several people here. it's always good to know what you're talking about. so it's also important to know that this is not a food safety issue that we're talking about here. for many years the european food safety authority has declared that american poultry imports do not pose the slightest risk to the health of consumers. we are not talking about a veterinary problem, we are talking about a purely commercial issue which must be dealt with from the point of view of what our interests are and how best to defend them. i think i have said all that is necessary, and there are no differences of opinion in the commission. the commission has from the outset declared itself ready not to let this - i must say - somewhat bizarre conflict become a burden and to put an end to the problem.
in writing. as vice-president of the envi commission, i encourage the eu representatives present at the meeting with the us officials to consider solutions to the climate change issue. climate change is a global challenge to which we must prepare a global response. europe is working on this. we expect the same example from our neighbours overseas. i'm glad that the united states will join the efforts of the international community after 2012, after the kyoto protocol expires. i also appreciate that the president of the united states finally acknowledged that we need legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i encourage the eu representatives to discuss a real percentage cut to really help stop global warming. we can't just accept that we need legislation and then when we get to the numbers, we back off. at the same time, future discussions on the collaborative climate change framework must be based on real studies on renewable energy sources. i am mainly talking about first-generation biofuels. it is necessary to maintain a low rate of use and a low level of subsidies. this will protect biodiversity and avoid food price increases due to the reduction of agricultural land.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's dependence on imports of hydrocarbons has increased, oil prices have reached alarming levels and the european union is increasingly vulnerable to the opec countries and russia. a common voice approach to external energy relations is needed. bilateral agreements between member states and third countries must strengthen the common european approach, not weaken it. the agreements signed by italy, hungary and bulgaria with russia for the construction of south stream, a pipeline designed to bypass without economic reasons one member state, which is romania, seriously affect the cohesion of european energy policy and represent political gestures that must be avoided between member states. i expected the european commission to react more strongly in condemning this situation. with the energy security package due to be adopted in the second half of this year, i believe we need to show a level of ambition comparable to that shown for the 'energy - climate change' package. the principle of speaking with one voice must become operational and a mechanism for agreements with third countries, perhaps inspired by the nuclear field, should be proposed by the commission. if we're going to succeed, we're going to have to work together.
the european commission reports on the progress made by romania and bulgaria in judicial reform will be published shortly. today, a year and a half after integration, there are more and more voices of discontent at european level, to the extent that the progress made so far is considered insignificant compared with the objectives set. even if some experts are already of the opinion that the two countries of south-eastern europe, romania and bulgaria, were accepted into the european union far too soon, i believe that these two new countries must continue to be helped and supported by the commission and parliament. given that elections to the european parliament will be held next year, i am convinced that the next few months will be crucial for bulgaria and romania to fully demonstrate their european membership.
i would like to welcome the action programme initiated by the council of europe to eliminate all forms of violence against children and express my conviction that corporal punishment will be banned everywhere by 2009. i would like to stress, however, the need for a united european campaign to make children aware that violence against them is against the law and to make them confess to the ill-treatment they are subjected to. in some countries of the union, parents view physical punishment as a normal method of education, and children have taken this negative role for granted. the future of the european union depends on the respect for children's rights, and their education must take into account an approach that prohibits violence in all its forms.
mr president, the european socialists want europe to set an example for the whole world in terms of quality of life. the 27 member states are today building together the new social europe that will ensure prosperity for all citizens of the union. of the union's 2008 budget, almost 45% is devoted to growth, innovation, job creation and increasing economic and social cohesion, and 42.6% is devoted to agriculture. rural areas account for 90% of the union's territory. despite the €41 billion allocated to agriculture in 2008, rising farm labour costs and rising energy prices are driving up agricultural commodity prices and worsening the economic situation of farmers. i believe that a policy of subsidising agriculture and appropriate conditions for promoting investment in this area are the answer to some of the challenges that the union will face in the coming years. a high-performing agriculture will enable all european citizens to have access to healthy food in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices. healthy eating is fundamental to quality of life.
in writing. since its creation, the gsp has been one of the main instruments of the eu's trade and development policies. the main objective of eu development policy and the gsp is to contribute to poverty eradication, the promotion of sustainable development and good governance, principles recognised by international conventions and instruments such as the millennium declaration, the rio declaration 1992, the ilo declaration 1998. through the implementation of the gsp since 1971, the eu has facilitated international trade with developing and least developed countries, providing them with the technical assistance necessary to comply with international conventions and the appropriate institutional and regulatory capacity to take advantage of international trade and the gsp. at the same time, upon verified notification and after informing the ep, the ec may apply the sanction of temporary withdrawal of preferences to countries that violate the criteria for inclusion in the list of beneficiaries. the report stresses the importance of the public consultation process, the involvement of the targeted beneficiaries and the strengthening of the ep's democratic control. as both the gsp and the list of beneficiary countries are reviewed every 3 years, the council is requested not to delay their submission in time for approval by the ep, avoiding syncopation in international trade. i congratulate the reporter.
in writing. according to the pittella report, the sector inquiry looked at the competitive situation in payment systems, including card schemes, credit bureaus, inter-bank cooperation, pricing and banking policies. the investigation shows that there are significant differences between the fees paid for bank cards. it was found that most national debit card networks charge significantly lower interchange fees than international networks and that in most member states most banks make the granting of mortgages, personal loans and loans to smes conditional on the opening of a current account. in general, the consumer does not have the same bargaining power when entering into a contractual relationship with the bank of which he becomes a customer. the customer signs a contract, which he doesn't always read, and even if he does and wants to propose changes, it's not possible. in this context, i believe that the responsible regulators should ensure that the form of contracts offered by banking institutions also protects the interest of the consumer and not only that of the banks. i consider it mandatory that a customer opening an account receives in advance a summary statement of all applicable costs for the entire period of use of the account.
in writing. the main points of the proposed regulation are the introduction of the precautionary principle and the issuing of a fishing licence subject to an assessment that these activities do not have harmful effects on marine ecosystems. as the fictitious rapporteur, i considered it necessary that these assessments should be based on criteria harmonised at community level, which would be reviewed by the commission to ensure a uniform assessment by all states. i also proposed the establishment of an electronic mapping system to create a database of vulnerable marine ecosystems, which would reduce the costs and effort of carrying out a fishing licence assessment. in other words, the proposed elements were introduced to improve the efficiency of the system and to ensure optimal protection of marine biodiversity. it is also essential that by the end of 2008 the commission establishes a list of areas to be closed, indicating both confirmed sites and those where vulnerable marine ecosystems are likely to be present. however, the role that member states must play in protecting marine life must not be overlooked by implementing the obligations of the habitats directive and the designation of marine ecosystems under national jurisdiction in the natura 2000 network.
madam president, trafficking may be an illegal market, but is nonetheless a market, having both a supply and a demand side. a country where there is significant demand plays an equally active part in trafficking as an origin country. besides being a leftover of slavery in our times, trafficking constitutes continued defiance and infringement of the law and is linked to other criminal practices, such as money laundering, violence, smuggling, prostitution, tax evasion, fraud and forced labour. trafficking produces dangerous reversals within the order of values in our society, preserving old inequalities – women and children are seen as merchandise – and generating new ones. the money that traffickers earn undermines the belief in the value of labour and fair business. it is necessary for all member states urgently to ratify the council of europe convention on trafficking and to apply the measures they have agreed, starting with combating the root cause of trafficking for prostitution, which is male demand for women and girls.
the report stresses the need to reduce bureaucracy in both areas. regulation 11 on the elimination of discrimination in respect of fares and conditions of carriage requires carriers to hold a transport document containing, inter alia, distances, routes and border crossing points. in the field of transport, the proposal aims to reduce certain obligations to provide transport statistics. as regards regulation no 852/2004 on food safety, i would like to support the amendment tabled by the group of european socialists which allows the competent authorities to exempt food business operators from one or more of the measures imposed, provided that they can demonstrate that there are no risks to be avoided, or that any identified risks are sufficiently and regularly controlled by the application of general and specific food hygiene requirements. he refers to bakeries, butchers, fruit and vegetable shops, and especially market stalls.
in writing. − i welcome the council decision on the network of contact points against corruption, which aims to improve cooperation between the authorities fighting corruption in the member states of the european union. european cooperation is an essential element in the fight against corruption, especially in the new member states, where non-governmental organisations and european experts point to the continued existence of significant deficiencies, including in the functioning of the judicial mechanism. the latest greco (group of states against corruption) assessment report of the council of europe on romania indicates that, in 2007, our country implemented only 40% of the anti-corruption measures recommended by the european institutions. i am asking the right-wing government in romania, in this way, to publicly admit the failure of its anti-corruption programs. i believe that the fight against corruption should be a key objective of the european union in order to provide its citizens with an area of freedom, security and justice. the european commission (through olaf), europol and eurojust should be part of this network. unfortunately, in many of the new member states, such as romania, the fight against corruption is used more as an electoral promise and political weapon directed against the political parties in the opposition.
in writing. - i voted for the report on effective import and export rules and procedures for trade policy, which ensures greater efficiency in customs and cooperation between european customs agencies. the eu market is facing the phenomenon of counterfeiting and piracy. losses caused by infringement of intellectual property rights in romania reached eur 62 million in 2007, according to the study carried out by the international intellectual property alliance. the adoption of this report by the european parliament and the establishment of a european-wide plan to combat piracy and counterfeiting will reduce this loss. the report welcomes the compromises reached by the member states and the commission on the mandate to negotiate an international anti-counterfeiting pact (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement), as this agreement is of major importance for the european union's trade strategy. as european consumer protection rules, in particular those relating to health and safety, apply to all products placed on the eu market, the commission and the member states are called upon to take all necessary measures to ensure effective product market surveillance in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. −the new amended form of the report respects the agreement between the social partners on the reintroduction of the 12-day derogation for rest time for coach drivers engaged in international passenger transport. i voted for amendment no 31, which lays down the conditions for drivers employed in an international transport service to have their weekly rest period extended to 12 consecutive 24-hour periods following a previous weekly rest period. these conditions are: the international occasional service must include at least 24 hours in a member state or third country other than the one in which the service started; the weekly rest period after the application of the derogation must always be at least a normal weekly rest period of 45 hours; a compensatory rest period of 24 hours is taken continuously before the end of the third week following the application of the derogation; if the driving period is continuous between 22.00 and 06.00, the vehicle is equipped with two drivers or the driving period is reduced to three hours; from 1 january 2014, the application of this derogation is only possible for vehicles equipped with recording equipment in accordance with european provisions.
in writing. − regulation 11 on the elimination of discrimination in transport rates and conditions requires carriers to hold a transport document containing, inter alia, distances, routes and border crossing points. in the field of transport, the proposal aims to reduce certain obligations to provide transport statistics. however, the european parliament is only consulted on this amendment. i voted for amendment no 12 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists, relating to regulation no 852/2004 on food safety, which would allow the competent authorities to exempt food business operators from one or more of the measures imposed, provided they can demonstrate that there are no risks to be avoided or that any risks identified are sufficiently and regularly controlled by the application of general and specific food hygiene requirements. he was referring to bakeries, butchers, fruit and vegetable shops, and especially market stalls. i regret that this amendment did not reach the required majority. i think that in this way the new text loses much of the positive value it was intended to bring.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as i consider that the measures it contains are complementary to national programmes in this field. romania's national rural development programme provides for a measure granting aid from the european union's rural development funds of up to eur 40 000 per person. but the conditions are very difficult to meet and therefore we still have a very small number of requests in this regard. the report we are adopting today contains a number of important measures, both in terms of financial support for young farmers and in some essential legal aspects, such as facilitating the succession of agricultural property or easy access to bank loans. the vocational specialisation and training component for rural young people is also important. i therefore believe that a future complex legislative package can reduce the enormous disparity between the population under 35 working in agriculture (only 8.5% of all farmers in europe) and the other age groups in this field. these measures will certainly contribute to the success of national programmes, such as the priority axis of supporting young farmers, provided for by the ndrp of romania.
in writing. − i voted for the report 'green paper on retail financial services in the single market' because consumer access to crossborder retail financial services is an important factor in strengthening the single market, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. it is necessary to develop consumer awareness campaigns on cross-border financial services through joint efforts at national and european level. romania should promote consumer awareness and knowledge of fin-net, which has a key role in coordinating information for the public on access to redress and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, especially in relation to cross-border financial services.
in writing. the forest fires in greece, italy and spain in the summer of 2007, the floods in romania and the uk, led to an increase in calls to improve the effectiveness of the eu's disaster response capacity. the frequency of climate change-related disasters is increasing and requires multilateral and coordinated responses that mobilise all available resources, taking into account issues such as speed, effectiveness and financial return. the commission's proposed measures to help boost the eu's response to disasters include strengthening the monitoring and information centre (mic), improving the response capacity of european civil protection and better coordination between the un and the red cross on humanitarian aid delivery. it also calls for the creation of a european training network on disaster response, the establishment of early warning systems and the use of the european emergency number 112, which is not well known in all member states. in romania, only 30% of citizens know that this number can be called in an emergency from any eu country and national authorities need to continue their efforts towards promoting this number to react quickly to climate change problems and beyond.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what the commission is reminding us of, we know all too well: there are a huge number of europeans living in poverty, including extreme poverty. those who don't know should take a big part of the blame that a rich society based on the principles of justice and solidarity like ours works so that the state of the poor europeans would have more seats in this parliament than germany. poverty is not an abstraction, it is a way of life that particularly affects women and children. women, including those in employment, face increased risks due to the structural wage gap, their concentration in low-paid, poorly unionized sectors and in the informal economy, given their prevalence among single-parent families. poverty is inherited. economic poverty of parents favours cultural poverty of children, through reduced access to education, political poverty, through low participation or exclusion from decision-making, social poverty, through reduced involvement in civic activities and isolation. it creates inequalities that are deeper than those derived from different purchasing power. a little coherence between statements and actions requires more than raising awareness. political decisions are needed to correct the situation. in the union we cannot speak of a lack of resources but of an often unfair distribution of them, of rules that perpetuate exclusion. it's a shared responsibility, including for companies that, for their own sake, need to move beyond the point where funding a foundation to protect stray dogs in the neighborhood was the only form of social responsibility.
mr president, eradicating poverty and social exclusion is one of the major objectives of the european union. the year 2010 must therefore be decisive in implementing the european strategy in this area. of the 78 million citizens living at risk of poverty, 19 million are children. unfortunately, there are still no european programmes and funds that are aimed at improving the situation of children. it is true that the european union provides funds for fruit and milk in schools or money for school education, but i believe that a coherent strategy and concrete programmes targeting children from poor families are needed. at the same time, we must also focus on the other disadvantaged groups, especially young people, for whom policies must be set up and substantial amounts of structural funds allocated. it is also important to stress that we cannot create the conditions for sustainable social development without the necessary financial resources. i believe that the €17 million allocated is insufficient in relation to the needs for social inclusion and poverty reduction that europe has today. last but not least, the fight against poverty and social exclusion must be linked to existing programmes. both the european social fund and the european progres programme should be used to finance the priorities of the european year against poverty.
in writing. thank you to the rapporteur for his cooperation in drafting this report. in europe, one person in six lives below the poverty line, a figure that does not include statistics from romania and bulgaria. although in most member states the gap between women and men in poverty is increasingly narrowing and the average gap is 2% in poverty and persistent poverty, i would like to draw attention to the reality in the new member states. in romania and bulgaria, the number of women at risk of poverty is over ten percent higher than that of men. women are also much more exposed to social exclusion. it should not be overlooked that the ideas of solidarity, social justice and poverty eradication are challenges not only within the european union but also its involvement on the world economic and political scene. i therefore welcome the inclusion in the final text of the issue of the difference between men and women in a more general article. i also consider it important to link the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion with the millennium development goals and, in particular, with the international day for the eradication of poverty.
in writing. the constitution of the international labour organization states: poverty, no matter where it is, is a danger to the prosperity of all. i therefore stress the importance of the amendment on preventing and combating poverty by pursuing multidimensional policies at national, regional and local level, ensuring active participation of citizens in society and the labour market. social protection reforms and active inclusion policies have made a decisive contribution to accelerating economic growth and creating more jobs in europe. romania had one of the highest economic growth rates in the eu in the first quarter of 2008, with growth of 8.2% (while the european average is 2.5%, according to eurostat), but, nevertheless, people with low education, lacking skills, especially from rural areas, children, young people, people with disabilities and roma are at significant risk of poverty. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work and believe that the policies developed by the member states, following the european recommendations, should seek to reconcile economic competitiveness and the social well-being of citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr harangozó for his report and also for his efforts to achieve a consensual position in his committee on the difficult topic of vulnerable communities and groups. to avoid economic growth being accompanied by social polarisation in our society, cohesion policy targets social exclusion, in particular the integration of vulnerable communities and groups, and it will remain a cohesion policy goal in the future. it is also true that problems identified in the report are at the frontier between territorial cohesion, on the one hand, and social cohesion challenges on the other, and social polarisation and social segregation problems, when concentrated on some territories, become territorial cohesion issues. we face social exclusion in the poorest territories of the european union, but we also have pockets of social deprivation in the richest cities of the european union. the report calls on the commission to present a comprehensive definition of territorial cohesion in the framework of the forthcoming green paper on territorial cohesion, and i can confirm that the green paper to be published at the end of september this year will contribute to the progress towards a common understanding across the union of the concept of territorial cohesion. the report also recognises that the notion of vulnerable groups and communities as such is certainly not an easy one and it should not be limited to the roma communities only. however, it is generally recognised that the situation of roma communities deserves special focus in europe. to address the multi-faceted problems of roma exclusion, we need an integrated approach, and parliament discussed it in depth in january when adopting a resolution on a european strategy on the roma. in the package on the renewed social agenda, the commission will present at the beginning of july its working document on community instruments and policies for roma inclusion. i share the report’s opinion on the need to make greater use of the synergies and complementarities among european policies and also among various financial instruments available. the commission paid much attention to this when negotiating operational programmes of the cohesion policy with the national and regional authorities. as to the issue of making available comparable intra-regional data for all regions in the european union, with special regard to social indicators, while essential, i share the report’s view here: it is a more complex one. as members will be aware, eurostat does not produce data, but manages data provided by the national statistical systems. we have just completed the second edition of the urban audit, covering the period up to 2004 and we clearly see how limited the availability of territorial data is below the nuts 2 classical regional level. to address this challenge and also using the context of preparations of the green paper on territorial cohesion, the directorate general for regional policy worked on improving the quality of research on regional policy, including its statistical bases. as a result, the expenditure 2000-2006 is today broken down to the nuts 3 level, to 20 categories of expenditure at this level, and is available for objective i regions, objective ii, urban, interreg and cohesion fund. rural audit is still a challenge ahead of us. unfortunately, i must admit today that reliable data does not yet exist on where particular excluded groups are concentrated, hence it is impossible to cross-match our newly available information on what and where cohesion policy resources are spent on with the location of such groups. i consider that the margin of progress in this area, as it seems today, is rather in specific research, using qualitative analysis. once again, i thank parliament for bringing to our attention all those important issues, and i am looking forward to the debate today.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and for the efforts he has made to reconcile the different points of view. we all agree that vulnerable groups and communities face many difficulties in their development and that they require special attention in the context of cohesion policy and the other financial support instruments available. we have supported at all stages of the work the need to structure the report in two distinct parts: one that targets vulnerable communities, through the prism of ethnicity, and the second, vulnerable communities caused by certain geographical handicaps. unfortunately, however, our request is not reflected in the current form of the report. our group has three amendments for which our vote depends, namely the deletion of recital ee, with the same content as recital i, the clarification of the concept of vulnerable areas by listing them, and the deletion of paragraph 17. i hope we have the rapporteur's approval on this. finally, i would like to emphasise two more ideas: the problems of vulnerable communities from any perspective, be it ethnic and/or geographical, can be tackled more effectively if there is collaboration in this field between local, regional, national and european authorities. at the same time, the role of the education system and public, social and transport infrastructure is indispensable in integrating vulnerable groups and communities. i would like to conclude by saying that our final position is conditional, as i have already said, on the acceptance of the three amendments and, in particular, on the deletion of paragraph 17, which was voted on in the committee. if these amendments are accepted, we will obviously support the report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. cohesion policy is vital for communities in underdeveloped regions and micro-regions. socio-economic factors such as poverty, lack of infrastructure, administrative capacity, deindustrialisation, low levels of education and training, high unemployment, poor living conditions and limited access to services of general interest make these communities vulnerable groups, which pose an increasing challenge to the cohesion of the european union's territories. this is a relationship of interdependence between the need to reduce socioeconomic disparities between regions and the need to integrate vulnerable groups socially, a relationship which should naturally lead to a constructive process involving a territorial approach at both national and european level. i believe, mr president, that the lack of statistical data on the prevalence of these groups and their degree of social exclusion, and the inability of indicators to measure interregional disparities to provide viable data, once again demonstrate the need for the member states and the commission to work together much more closely in order to obtain a real picture of the situation of regions and vulnerable groups, but also to create concrete programmes and strategies for territorial development and overcoming social exclusion. they also believe that a first step should be taken by member states first by identifying these vulnerable groups and prioritising them in national strategic plans so that evaluation and monitoring mechanisms can then be developed. we must not forget that migration is often a consequence of poverty, and that the migration phenomenon itself is a generator of instability and conflict. that is why, mr president, we believe that vulnerable groups should benefit from social assistance, equal opportunities and, moreover, specific programmes from all the member states to enable the regions from which they come to develop.
in writing. thank you to the rapporteur for his cooperation in drafting this report. in europe, one person in six lives below the poverty line, a figure that does not include statistics from romania and bulgaria. although in most member states the gap between women and men in poverty is increasingly narrowing and the average gap is 2% in poverty and persistent poverty, i would like to draw attention to the reality in the new member states. in romania and bulgaria, the number of women at risk of poverty is over ten percent higher than that of men. women are also much more exposed to social exclusion. it should not be overlooked that the ideas of solidarity, social justice and poverty eradication are challenges not only within the european union but also its involvement on the world economic and political scene. i therefore welcome the inclusion in the final text of the issue of the difference between men and women in a more general article. i also consider it important to link the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion with the millennium development goals and, in particular, with the international day for the eradication of poverty.
ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has found that in 2006 there were about 8 million illegal immigrants in the european union. the union can no longer ignore this problem. we must find solutions, we cannot play with the lives of these people, but it is certain that the self-regulation of the situation is not possible. the instruments recently proposed by the commission to control illegal immigration cannot have a positive effect unless the problem of illegal immigrants is also tackled. we are in a europe where internal borders have been abolished, which is why we need this directive so that we can take the first step towards a common policy on the return of illegal immigrants. there are ngos who believe that the european union is adopting increasingly repressive immigration policies and call the return directive a 'shame directive'. i understand the concern of these ngos to defend the interests of the undocumented, but i urge these organizations to look at the situation from a realistic angle. what would be the solutions for illegal immigrants entering through malta, the canary islands, greece, italy or more recently through the eastern external border and seeking to settle in the european union? there is a risk that these migrants will become victims of black labour, trafficking or even terrorist radicalisation. this threat is real and that is why it is important to regulate their situation either by repatriation or by granting asylum or residence permits. the negotiations with the council have led to solutions that can be accepted without reservations, especially in sensitive areas such as the protection of vulnerable persons and unaccompanied minors, the conditioning of repatriation to countries of origin or to countries with which the european union has concluded bilateral agreements in this field. i think that the efforts made by the rapporteurs and the council should be appreciated and the directive should be approved in the form presented at this first reading.
the existence of uniform standards and procedures applicable in the member states is a necessity for the entire european administrative system and not just for returning migrants to third countries. the preparation of this report, which is of unquestionable relevance and usefulness, gives me the opportunity to re-examine the need for the implementation of interoperable systems for the release of documents to the public by administrations in all countries. the interoperability of document-issuing systems in all countries remains the main premise for limiting the risks of excessive authority and offers a functional formula for guaranteeing the exercise of the rights deriving from the status of community citizen. while appreciating the quality of this report, i would like to point out here that its effects will be maximised by rethinking the practical conditions of application, based on fundamental studies on the appropriateness of an integrated electronic system of administrative procedures and services. and perhaps it is not too late to think about establishing a european electronic identity.
thanks to the weber report, a balanced report, the return directive will be the first legislative initiative on immigration to be successfully adopted through the co-decision procedure between the european parliament and the council. i am pleased that both institutions, assisted by the european commission, have taken up and fulfilled their responsibilities responsibly, setting a benchmark for future files. return policy should be seen as an integral and necessary part of a comprehensive and coherent community policy on migration and asylum. more effective rules on illegal immigration will make it possible to have more liberal rules for legal immigration. i believe that clear, transparent and fair rules have now been developed to ensure an effective return policy as a necessary element of the proper management of migration policy as agreed in the hague programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on romania's accession to the convention of 23 july 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises, as i consider it necessary to reduce the tax burden for taxpayers. it is very important that romania and bulgaria accede to the arbitration convention as soon as possible and thus join the other member states for which the convention is already in force. their non-participation in this system is currently causing significant costs to the economy and constitutes an obstacle to the functioning of the european common market. under the treaty of accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu, the council is to fix the date for the entry into force of this convention, on the basis of a recommendation from the commission and after consulting parliament. i would like to express my concern regarding the retroactive application of the arbitration convention as of 1 january 2007 and therefore support the proposal that the date of entry into force be the day following the date of publication of the decision in the official journal of the eu.
in writing. − the aim of the revision of this directive is to create a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework, aligned with the objectives of the waste prevention and recycling strategy so that europe becomes a recycling society with an increased level of resource efficiency in waste. • a waste management hierarchy in 5 steps is established: prevention, preparation for re-use, recycling, recovery with energy recovery and final disposal (including storage) of waste;• measures/plans to prevent waste generation;• mandatory recycling targets for municipal waste, as well as for construction and demolition waste; • the extended responsibility of the manufacturer to provide information to the public on the possibilities of re-use and recycling of products. the measures to be taken in the member states to achieve all the above objectives should encourage the modernisation or establishment of new waste recycling, reconditioning for re-use, i.e. 'green industry'. i voted for the revision of the waste framework directive because all these measures contribute to the creation of new jobs, the safe and sustainable management of waste, the rational use of natural resources and adaptation to climate change (development of non-ets sectors).
in writing. − the main elements of the proposed directive are:- the establishment of water quality standards (eqs) for priority and priority hazardous substances:- the introduction of the concept of 'mixing zones' - within the perimeter of which eqs can be exceeded - the establishment of an inventory of discharges, emissions and losses of priority and priority hazardous substances that facilitates the monitoring of the achievement of the objectives of the water framework directive at the relevant point sources of pollution, and the assessment of the impact of the application of the 'polluter pays' principle - the introduction of provisions on cross-border pollution. they exclude the sole responsibility of the member state for exceeding the eqs if it demonstrates that the exceedance is due to cross-border pollution, but require joint action. i voted for environmental quality standards in the field of water policy, because it is salutary to introduce provisions on 'cross-border pollution', especially in the case of romania, given that we have a border with non-eu countries and are not obliged to comply with the standards imposed at community level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a decision on the designation of 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. in addition to the priority actions mentioned in the proposal for a decision, we consider it absolutely necessary to introduce a guaranteed minimum wage in the eu member states for an effective fight against poverty. in my country, romania, after three years of right-wing government, 40% of romanian workers live below the poverty line because they cannot afford to pay the cost of the minimum consumption basket and the cost of current bills during the winter. the introduction of the single tax rate by the right-wing government in 2005 has led to excessive social polarisation and a deepening of poverty. in 2007, only 5% of romanian employees earned more than ron 2000, about eur 500. in the case of romania, it is necessary to abandon the single tax rate and switch to the progressive rate, in parallel with the tax exemption of reinvested capital. this would reduce the polarization of society and achieve fair taxation, the many with lower incomes being taxed less than the many with high and very high incomes.
rap avis imco. (the president of the council is here) - ladies and gentlemen, the original draft of the agency for the cooperation of regulators presented parliament with two options: reject a useless institution or create a more efficient one. the second option was chosen not in spite of the meroni clause but within the limits of the treaty. the amendments, which were generally convergent, adopted in committees and substantially altered the original powers. we therefore expect that the agency's work will strengthen the role of national regulators and support their functioning, enable the technical harmonisation of european networks as a condition for a real internal market and make possible the reciprocal supply of energy between member states, take account of the interests of consumers and closely monitor developments on the energy market. we expect the agency to be a useful instrument of the common energy policy. we do not expect that the granting of these powers will reduce the european commission's responsibilities towards parliament and in the implementation of energy policy, nor that technical decisions will replace political ones. sufficient and affordable energy for all remains our ultimate goal.
madam president, the european energy market today continues to reflect, in my opinion, an old market structure dominated by national or regional monopolies, and this in spite of the evident benefits that liberalisation brings for european customers in terms of price, cost reduction and efficiency. this is to say that liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets is still a work in progress. for instance, we still need to move forward in eastern european countries to end state-owned domination of electricity production and to liberalise it, as we did in the distribution sector. i also welcome the steps that we are taking to ensure ownership unbundling as a necessary measure to finally complete our liberalisation of the energy market. in addition to liberalisation, europe must also support the development of lpg and lng terminals and technologies. we need to encourage the creation of a world trade market for lpg and lng to ease europe’s dependency on a single source for natural gas. diversification and security of energy supply must now be as high on our agenda as liberalisation.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs morgan. the security of the union's energy supply requires huge investments and investors need a predictable environment that encourages investments in the medium and long term. in the context of climate change, the union has set itself the target of at least 20% of energy coming from renewable sources by 2020. access to the grid for power transmission is essential. in recent years we have seen the rapid rise in energy prices, and european citizens expect the european institutions to respond to their problems. the accessibility and availability of energy are essential for economic and social life. the establishment of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators will ensure better protection of the interests of energy consumers. i consider that amendment no 18 in the chichester report falls within the competence of the council.
in writing. as regards the chichester report on the agency for the cooperation of regulators, i support the establishment of this agency and the granting of increased powers to it. as regards the amendment concerning the establishment of the seat of this institution in brussels, i would first like to ask the legal service for an opinion on our competence, the european parliament, to give an opinion on this subject because i personally feel that this is a matter for the council. as for brussels, i have nothing against the city itself. i like it. but i think the irish vote last week is a very important new political signal, also in relation to the perception of the citizens of the bureaucrats in brussels and the way decisions are made in the 'closed circle' in brussels. all european citizens need to feel part of and close to the european decision-making process. it is important that all european citizens feel represented, the institutions must have a presence throughout the union. bringing the institutions closer to the citizens and involving citizens in the european debate! if we centralize everything in brussels, we will endanger the european construction. i categorically reject the establishment of the seat of this new institution in brussels.
in 2007, approximately 43 thousand people died and approximately 1,7 million people were injured in road accidents in the union. so, each year, the population of a small european city disappears from europe, and the economic cost of these accidents amounts to 200 billion euros, which is 2% of the community's gdp. every year, 8 000 people who participate in road traffic as pedestrians or cyclists die in road accidents. each year, an additional 300,000 pedestrians and cyclists are killed in traffic accidents. that is why we must take measures to protect these categories of traffickers. europe must invest in research in the car industry, in new materials and in designing safer cars with frontal protection and collision avoidance systems. the introduction of brake assist systems and other active safety technologies allows for improved protection of vulnerable road users. but europe also needs to improve its road infrastructure. this regulation has major implications because after 6 years from its entry into force it will be prohibited to register, sell or put into circulation new vehicles of category n1 which do not meet the technical conditions related to pedestrian protection. i consider that this regulation depends on the specific type-approval systems used in the member states. i also draw attention to the importance of pedestrian and cyclist education. they must know and obey the rules of the road, observe the markings, and make it compulsory for cyclists to wear protective equipment.
the european council we are preparing for today is decisive for the future of europe. one of europe's most prosperous countries and a champion of economic success through the application of european integration procedures said 'no' to the lisbon treaty. at the same time, 18 european countries adopted this act, most of them the same 18 who also said "yes" to the european constitutional treaty. i am as disappointed by the outcome of the irish referendum as many of my predecessors. but the european union must go ahead with the reforms it needs. a multi-speed europe, for which there are procedures since the treaty of amsterdam and with well-defined exemption options, is the only way forward at the moment. the chance that ireland has had to develop must also be given to the newly acceded states, including romania. in times like these, we need to remember and rally around the things that unite us and give us a strong reason to keep going. sir winston churchill said in his famous speech in favour of a united states of europe that when europe is united by its common heritage, there will be no limit to the happiness, prosperity and glory that its peoples will enjoy. i believe in this vision and i know at the same time that it will take a lot of effort to achieve it. but that shouldn't stop us from going on.
mr president, the irish ‘no’ vote indicates that an unprecedented and successful experiment in world politics, the eu, is in difficulty. but, in order to be truly indicative of the will of the people, any referendum should be preceded by a campaign of information. in the irish case we can measure that by the degree of correspondence, or total lack of it, between the lisbon treaty and the arguments invoked against it. of course democracy compels us to take the irish result into account, which we do. but, equally, democracy cannot be exercised at the expense of the rights of the others, namely those who have already ratified the lisbon treaty, and, most important, it cannot be abused to blackmail the majority by a minority. i am afraid that the irish ‘no’ will encourage rather than discourage existing tendencies to renationalise some common policies by prolonging the juridical vacuum the eu finds itself in since the rejection of the constitutional treaty. i would conclude by saying that, as an mep from a former communist country which made great efforts to be admitted to the union, i would hate to see communism living longer than the european union.
in writing. the european process needs to continue. the vote of the irish people to reject the lisbon treaty must be respected. at the same time, the wider interests of all european union citizens, the efficiency of european structures and the continuation of the enlargement process of the union must be taken into account. irish people have not only rights but also obligations within the eu. they must be aware of the consequences of rejecting the lisbon treaty. the irish will have to decide in a new referendum whether to leave the european union or remain in the eu under the lisbon treaty. stopping the european process by invoking the 'unshaken sovereignty' of the irish is in fact stopping the natural aspirations of citizens of croatia, the republic of moldova, etc. to move closer to the eu. just as ireland and irish politicians have the right to fight for the aspirations of their citizens, so too romania has the right to fight for the accession of the republic of moldova to the european union.
in writing. the recent irish vote has been taken up at community level under various interpretations, and the speeches in parliament confirm the difficulties involved in managing the long-term effects that this vote may produce. i would like to briefly touch on the issues that the irish vote may raise in public opinion in the newly integrated eu states, particularly those in eastern europe. the citizens of these countries will find it very difficult to understand the binding nature of the adoption at national level of european rules which involve economic sacrifices and a series of public policies which the citizens consider to be far too restrictive for the economic stage at which these countries are at present. what i want to stress here is that any attempt to introduce exceptional treatment within the community will be reflected directly in the political vote in 2009 which could provide grounds for radicalization of an electorate that has expressed great enthusiasm in favor of these countries joining the eu.
in writing. – while we keep behind our closed doors states like croatia, turkey, ukraine and moldova, which are struggling to become members, we strive to keep in states which are unsure that it is worthwhile to be members of a strong union. it is unfair, unproductive and unsustainable to treat the eurosceptics better than the euro-enthusiasts. equal respect for all nations means confronting each one with its own responsibility. trying to cheat and tempt someone with illusory protocols and concessions in order to change decisions without changing convictions would be an offence and a lack of democratic respect. the irish people should take as much time as necessary in order to reflect on its european future. perhaps the best frame for such a democratic reflection would be early elections. anyhow, the irish must use their own time and not the others’ time. therefore an interim status for ireland within the eu, letting the european integration progress with fewer states involved, must be considered. eventually, through a new referendum, the irish people should answer the question of whether they want to stay in the european union on the basis of the lisbon treaty or if they want to play a ‘chevalier role’ in the storms of the global order.
in writing. the european parliament and the other european institutions must respect the vote cast by irish citizens in the referendum. i say it loud and clear: the irish people did not vote against the european union, they voted against the treaty of lisbon. there are clear signs that the substance and motives of this treaty have not been understood, and the fears of the irish people about the taxation system and the preservation of neutrality have been fuelled by some political parties. the european parliament must give a clear signal of support for the ratification process in the other member states. in parallel, the irish people and the irish government must be presented with viable solutions to overcome this impasse. finally, the lisbon treaty is the necessary reform step for the european institutions to function more effectively in the increasingly difficult global conditions to which each member state must respond: economic competitiveness, climate change, rising natural resource prices and many others that affect us all equally.
in writing. the eu needs a new institutional framework after the treaty of nice, and the lisbon treaty, while less ambitious than the european constitution, is a good text. 18 member states have ratified the treaty of lisbon in their national parliaments. ireland decided to ratify it by popular referendum, and the people of ireland rejected it. ireland voted against the nice treaty in 2001 and ratified it a year later. the irish vote shows that the people of this country find community institution building complicated. but it is our duty to explain to the european citizens the necessity and the provisions of this treaty. it addresses the issue of climate change, defines the european economy as a social market economy, stresses the need for a common energy policy and, above all, gives legal force to the european charter of fundamental rights. the reform treaty increases democracy by increasing the powers of the european parliament and allows half of national parliaments to reject a draft law if it is considered to violate the principle of subsidiarity. the irish vote shows us that we need more responsibility and more dialogue, that we need to explain more and better to the european citizens what the new treaty is about and why it is necessary.
mr president, i would like to ask for a separate vote on amendment no 18 because it concerns the seat of the agency. i call for a separate vote.
in writing. − i particularly appreciate the firm and unequivocal commitment of mr barrot to uphold the rights of european citizenship and in particular freedom of movement, at his hearing on monday. the rights and freedoms of european citizens are the most important of the gains of european integration and must not be endangered in any way and for any reason whatsoever. in the country i represent in this forum, romania, citizens are watching with attention and concern the discussions in some member states on freedom of movement. romanian citizens abroad, overwhelmingly honest and hardworking workers, bring undeniable benefits to the economies of the countries in which they work. they - and i am sure they are not alone - expect the european commission to play an active and firm role in defending full freedom of movement. i hope with all my heart that mr barrot's entire mandate will be marked by this commitment to defend the rights of european citizens.
in writing. the proposal for a directive debated yesterday and voted on today addresses european immigration policy directly for the first time by setting out standards and procedures for the expulsion of illegal immigrants from the territory of the member states. beyond the objective of legal harmonisation of the situation of migrants, the real challenge of this directive has been to find a compromise that respects human rights and the free movement of persons while taking into account the need for individual security and, above all, collective security. most member states have experienced the phenomenon of immigration, and the measures taken by their governments vary according to the flow of immigrants. i therefore consider that mr weber's report regulates these differences between the immigration policies of the member states, taking account of the principles of each legal system and imposing common standards and enforcement measures. i can therefore say that i voted for this report precisely because of the integrated approach to immigration. measures such as voluntary return to the country of origin, temporary detention and special attention to the protection of unaccompanied minors, as well as access to health and education services, do not constitute a breach of the european convention on human rights, but on the contrary, demonstrate that the european union has taken another step towards creating a common policy on illegal immigration. i also want to congratulate the board and mr. weber on the compromise negotiated.
in writing. − the union is built on common values and defends human rights. i voted for the amendments by the european socialists because they require member states to grant to seriously ill people an autonomous residence permit or other authorisation conferring the right of residence. this is for beneficiaries of appropriate access to healthcare, except where it can be demonstrated that those persons can receive appropriate treatment and healthcare in their country of origin. i also consider it essential that the third-country national concerned be released immediately if the public custody is not lawful. minors in public custody should be able to participate in leisure activities, including play and recreational activities appropriate to their age, and have access to education. unaccompanied children should be accommodated in institutions with staff and equipment appropriate to the needs of persons in their age group. the best interests of the child are a primary consideration in the context of the placement of minors in public custody pending expulsion. i regret that those amendments did not pass. i believe that without these amendments the weber report does not respect european values, which is why i voted against it.
the effects of the rising price of oil and natural gas are already being felt in all economic activities as well as social programs and will reach a peak in the coming winter. the european commission is rightly discussing structural solutions to save and diversify energy. but we need some fundamental changes in the european economy, in fact, we are talking about a new technological structure of the european economy that must be achieved in the medium and long term. i therefore believe that the european commission must review and re-examine the financial perspective for 2007-13 in order to increase its efforts for new technologies and investments in the energy sector.
mr president, the next european union-russia summit will take place between a russian federation on the rise – be it only provisionally – and an eu not only affected by the irish ‘no’ on the lisbon treaty but, moreover, by the lack of a clear vision on how to get out of this crisis. russia itself is a divisive issue in the european union. actually, it divided us into ideologists and pragmatics; into confrontational geo-strategists and conciliatorists; into old cold war fighters and new utilitarian opportunists. on the other hand, a major problem is that russia does not have a european union policy but prefers to deal with each member of the union separately. we will not be able to change this situation before we put in place a true common european policy for russia. we must tell russia that, in order to be able to do good business with us and benefit from the mutual opening of the markets, one needs an institutional and political interoperability guaranteeing the separation between economic policies and geo-political strategies. therefore, a common space of justice, freedom and security characterised by transparency, accountability and openness is needed.
the chairman of the council. - i'll be very brief, given the late hour. i think it was mr severin who said - and i will quote in english - 'russia is a divisive issue in the european union'. nevertheless, i think that in the debate in this parliament today i have heard two elements of very broad agreement, very broad. first, we need good relations between the european union and the russian federation. of course, i can only agree with that. the russian federation, as has been said on several occasions, is a world power, one of the key players on the international scene, as mr mylán món said, and our neighbour. in short, we are condemned to coexist with the russian federation, and this coexistence will only be of quality if it is based on partnership and cooperation. this presidency is determined to foster dialogue to deepen this partnership and cooperation, a dialogue that includes all issues of mutual interest, including those on which we disagree, and which i referred to in my opening speech. the second important element of the very broad consensus i see here in this chamber is the importance you attach to the common positions of the european union. i couldn't agree more. the area where this has been particularly exposed and most frequently exposed is the energy sector. the fact is that no single member state can get as good a deal as the union as a whole in separate talks with suppliers, such as the russian federation. and so it is high time that a common european external energy policy really came to life. in this context, pipelines, oil pipelines were also mentioned. let me just say this: if we in the european union were able to establish a real internal energy market by now, it would not matter where the pipeline or the oil pipeline goes. let me conclude by saying that the slovenian presidency is very pleased that our presidency is ending with the eu-russia federation summit, a summit which, this time, is due to certain new circumstances, a new president in russia and a mandate which has been achieved after lengthy negotiations, a summit which, therefore, gives great promise in these new circumstances, and we hope that these expectations will be fulfilled.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that the key in our relationship is mutual interdependence, which many speakers have mentioned. on the one hand, it is in our interests to have a good relationship with russia, a strategic partner and a neighbour, as our president rightly said. however, it is also important that russia should be a partner in the solution of problems and not a partner for problems, and that is the other part of it. i have listened very carefully and i have taken note of all your comments. i will not be able to answer all your questions and comments now, but let me make a few general and more specific remarks. firstly, russia is today a very important energy partner and, as a result of getting the negotiating mandate for the new agreement, we already have a common eu position on energy, because we have a common mandate. it was not easy to get the mandate, but now we have it and this is the framework of our negotiations. therefore, it was very important to get it. as i said before, we want to enshrine the principles of the energy charter in the new agreement. the eu-russia relationship is based on that – it is not a one-way street. we are an important market and a source of investment, just as russia is a very important supplier to us. so, again, this interdependence is there and we have to have the same principles: reciprocity, transparency and non-discrimination. one of the objectives of the european union energy policy is to diversify routes of supply and sources of energy to increase competition and security in the eu energy market. this is not an anti-russian policy. i think russia will remain a key supplier to us, but any rational consumer spreads risks, particularly with energy prices skyrocketing. given our growing interdependence on imports, particularly gas, the volume of russian gas that we would like to buy is likely to grow, so we need a clear policy of diversification. let me turn to trade in general. it is very important that russia becomes a member of the wto. this is important not only for russia but also for us. we will continue, therefore, to work actively in geneva and bilaterally to get a deal. i think russia needs membership of the wto to modernise its economy, and with this president i am sure that is possible, as it was also possible with president putin, who, himself, supported this issue. let me quickly mention ngos and human rights issues: we are in regular contact with russian ngos and we reflect their concerns in our talks with the russian authorities. we are ready to raise specific cases, where necessary, and we continue to support them financially through our european instrument for democracy and human rights. on the question of human rights in general: we hold human rights consultations with the russians. indeed, we speak about specific cases, human rights defenders, and sometimes about judicial cases. our particular concerns relate to the situation in the northern caucasus. i only have five minutes and i could speak at length about the northern caucasus, georgia, abkhazia, south ossetia and also on nagorno-karabakh and moldova, so please do not take it that we did not know. this will be very important and is important. i also wanted to say on the issue of the british council that the eu has supported the uk government in its dispute with russia concerning the british council offices in st petersburg and yekaterinburg. i think we now have a good dialogue on cultural cooperation with russia, which i hope will provide an opportunity to emphasise the value of these contacts. we will, of course, consider whether anything more can be done. concerning the finno-ugric minorities: as you know, we are working on the implementation of the preparatory action for eur 2.5 million, which parliament put into the budget for this year and we see in this context implementation of the council of europe convention on minority rights, to which russia is also a party. i think it should also cover national minorities in russia. concerning university exchanges: i would just say that we promote such exchanges with russia through, on the one hand, the erasmus mundus and the tempus programmes. we will be increasing our cooperation in those programmes in the coming years. in addition, russia has also shown great interest in being a member of the seventh research and development framework programme, which perhaps in future will be a very important sign for sigma. we have a european studies institute and we – both russia and the european union – might go on to work with this institute and maybe even double our input. a last general word before concluding: the official launch of this new agreement is, as i think everybody here would agree, a very important occasion and it is an opportunity. there is huge potential and i totally agree with our presidency that this will be a very important occasion. we know that the negotiations will not be easy. they have to be comprehensive and because they are comprehensive – because we have a huge mandate – they will be somewhat complex and they will not be finished soon. however, this solid mandate also shows that we have a unity there. the unity of the mandate is there. it was very difficult to get it, but now that we have it, let us move forward and i urge you to back us on that. finally, as we all know, the relationship has to be strategic. let us, therefore, take a step back from the daily irritants and the news from the wires and let us look at the broader historical context of europe and russia, as well as at the many interests we have in common. we have to find a way to manage our divergences while, at the same time, keeping a door open for dialogue. there is an opportunity. we have to take it, and together i am sure we will get a solid partnership out of that.
in writing. the eu-russia summit in khanty-mansiik, siberia, on 26 and 27 june will have a double start: first, it is the first contact between the european union and the new russian president, dmitry medvedev, and second, it is intended to negotiate a new partnership agreement to provide the framework for the development of relations between the european union and russia. given that 40% of europeans' natural gas imports come from russia, the latter must facilitate eu investment by adopting transparent legislation and opening up its pipeline system to allow european companies to buy gas directly from central asian producers. the european union must not remain indifferent to the fate of those living in conflict zones; together with russia and the other actors involved we must find a way to resolve 'frozen' conflicts such as that in moldova or in the caucasus. i hope that the partnership agreement will be a framework in which relations between the european union and russia can evolve; but we must not forget that our objective is not to sign a partnership agreement, but to include in this agreement clauses that will lead to democracy, security and an increase in living standards in europe, from the caucasus to the atlantic.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate you and wish you success in the work you are about to undertake, and i want to tell you that we expect a lot from you. i would like to congratulate mr liberadzki on his report, which is part of the process of simplifying legislation and which virtually brings together and updates the text of four directives into one. previously existing european legislation did not cover the transport of dangerous goods by sea, which was governed by rules established by various multilateral agreements to which member states were parties. it is therefore important that we have community legislation with common rules for all member states for the transport of dangerous goods, for all modes of transport. the existence of these common rules allows dangerous goods to be transferred from one mode of transport to another. in addition to the provisions of this directive, member states may introduce specific requirements for vehicles, wagons and vessels engaged in inland waterway transport into national legislation. the council's proposed amendments introduce two new elements: the first introduces and allows member states to regulate or strictly prohibit the internal transport of dangerous goods within their territory for reasons other than safety. the second amendment requires the commission to provide financial support to member states for the translation into their official languages of european agreements for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and sea. however, i believe that all member states should also carry out information campaigns to inform those concerned about the provisions of the new directive. but it's essential to follow these rules. the responsible authorities must ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is carried out only in compliance with the commonly established rules and restrictions.
in writing. – this future directive is a big step forward towards protecting our safety and our environment, as it introduces european rules for transport of dangerous goods not only by road and rail but also by inland waterways. accidents in inland waterways can have an extensive impact and serious consequences such as water poisoning, extinction of wildlife and human health problems. all the more reason to try to reduce the risks by creating common rules for this mode of transport as well. furthermore, i strongly support the inclusion of a provision that member states can regulate or prohibit transport of dangerous goods for reasons other than safety. if we take the case of cyanide, an extremely toxic material, 14% of the cyanide releases into the environment were caused by transport accidents. these figures highlight the vulnerability of cyanide transport and underlines the need for stronger environmental and safety standards. i therefore encourage member states to take the strictest possible measures to regulate transportation of cyanide and, where necessary, to prohibit bulk transportation of cyanide on their territory. sometimes minimising the transport of hazardous goods is just the safest way to minimise the risks.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every year in the european union some 43 000 people die and another 1.7 million are injured in road accidents. in addition to designing and building safer cars, member states must also invest in road infrastructure safety. road safety impact assessments should demonstrate the road safety implications of the different planning alternatives of an infrastructure project at a strategic level and this should be decisive in the choice of route. the tran committee supported the amendment that allows member states to apply the provisions of this directive, as a set of good practices, also to national road transport infrastructure, not included in the ten-t network, built through the use of all or part of community funds. in order to encourage cycling, especially in urban areas, member states should include in any infrastructure construction option transport roads and special routes for cyclists that intersect as little as possible with major traffic arteries. i consider it essential that member states ensure that appropriate signage is provided to warn road users of road infrastructure sections under repair which may endanger the safety of road users. i also consider that where the implementation of the provisions of this directive gives rise to new obligations for the execution of a road infrastructure project, the commission and the member states should ensure that the amounts allocated are increased accordingly. i would like to conclude by stressing the need for safe parking facilities and i hope that the commissioner will support the amendment i tabled to this effect in the 2009 union budget. i congratulate the reporter.
in writing. this directive is absolutely necessary in particular for major road infrastructure projects. however, it must be borne in mind that important safety issues fall to the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as a shared responsibility. as designed, and partly built, the trans-european motorway network is among the safest in the world. major problems related to infrastructure safety and traffic safety in general are neither in the ten-t nor, to a large extent, on motorways, problems are on ordinary roads, especially outside cities. for this reason, thorough analysis, competently designed and executed construction projects and effective auditing are needed especially in the regional and local road network, and i therefore believe that member states must take all the sound principles and apply them responsibly not only where they are obliged to do so but also, and especially, where the need is greatest. the rules established by this directive, which are not intended to be binding, particularly from a bureaucratic-administrative point of view, should be adopted as a set of good practices for the continuous improvement of the safety management procedures of all road infrastructure throughout the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. i would like to congratulate mrs gurmai on her report and i am convinced that her report will make the roadmap to be drawn up by the commission in autumn 2008 to accelerate the introduction of incentives for smart vehicles more ambitious. launched in 2006, the 'smart vehicle' initiative is a flagship project of e2010, which is the commission's strategic framework for the information society by 2010. one component of the esafety programme is the implementation by 2010 of the ecall system, which will automatically call emergency services and provide data on the exact location of the vehicle. it is important, however, that the memorandum of understanding be signed by the member states. i support the introduction of this system as standard equipment for all new vehicles from 2010. the introduction of electronic stability control systems, which reduce the risk of skidding, could save 4,000 lives a year in europe. unfortunately, depending on the strategy of the car manufacturers, these devices are available in a fairly small proportion and often as part of a package of options that are very expensive. i think it is not enough to set ourselves the objective of having the stability control system available for all models from 2012 onwards, but it is also important to introduce measures to encourage the buyer to choose this option. it has been found that 60 percent of head-on collisions could be avoided if drivers had brake assist systems and crash avoidance technology. also, vision-enhancing systems that equip cars with adaptive headlights can reduce fatalities in pedestrian accidents by 30 percent and in bicycle accidents by 15 percent. i consider it extremely important to ensure data confidentiality and draw attention to the urgent need to clarify the legal liability in the event of an accident for cars equipped with assisted braking or with slide control devices. e automotive industry should adopt the european code of good practice for the development and testing of advanced manufacturer assistance systems for drivers of motor vehicles developed by reponse. last but not least, i believe that the existence of community and national schemes to provide financial support for the purchase of intelligent vehicles is vital for the widespread use of these systems. i would like to congratulate mrs gurmai on her report and we do indeed expect the commission to have an ambitious plan for the introduction of intelligent vehicles.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is a great pleasure to address you in your new position. i congratulate mrs. gurmai on this very necessary report. ladies and gentlemen, the price of oil is rising alarmingly, and efforts to replace traditional fuels are not yet producing the desired results, solutions being either too expensive, controversial or insufficiently tested from a technological point of view. however, the car remains europeans' favourite means of transport, and this preference unfortunately leads to numerous problems, both socially and in terms of environmental protection, as well as accidents with material damage and, above all, loss of life. the use of intelligent transport systems and, in particular, electronic stability control is required on a large scale. this can save thousands of lives, reduce pollution, smooth traffic, and actually improve both the comfort and safety of drivers and the relationships between road partners. member states and private companies need to become increasingly involved both in the development and implementation of esafety initiatives and in the design of new accident avoidance systems, new materials and new types of sensors that interconnect cars with each other and with cars on the road. it is clear that the 'smart vehicles' initiative cannot be separated from the initiative on smart roads. i fully support the commission's proposal to launch a programme for the implementation of cooperative management systems and the provision of associated radio frequencies, the benefits of which are visible in the experimental stages in various countries and, with all the costs involved, will bear fruit in the long term. it is true that these systems primarily address motorway and ten-t traffic. i stress that over time it is imperative that the differences between major infrastructure and the other categories of road should be reduced, especially in the new member states. member states need to make efficient use of the european funds available and find other financial and technical solutions to develop and implement long-term strategies for the implementation of assisted and cooperative driving also in the really problematic areas: on national, regional and local roads, on goods bypasses, on roads connecting with conurbations in... peri-urban areas and in cross-border sectors. the european commission and the member states must also continue their efforts to harmonise the legislative framework for ecall and the 112 emergency number, which are essential pillars of safety and for strengthening sustainable mobility and the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs de vits on the european charter of the rights of energy consumers. given rising energy prices, it is necessary to guarantee the supply of lower-income citizens and people living in remote regions where energy markets are small and uncompetitive. member states should take measures as soon as possible to define precisely these groups of consumers and promote and support measures, such as social tariffs, to ensure continuity of their access to electricity and natural gas. i voted for amendments nos 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists. they advocated the introduction of social tariffs, quarterly information to consumers on their own energy consumption and required the public to be informed of the provisions of the european charter of energy consumers' rights. i regret that these amendments have not passed. the protection of energy consumers must continue to be based on joint action by the union and the member states. the european charter of the rights of energy consumers is a way of helping citizens to obtain information about their rights in a more efficient and simple way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the initiative of the european commission which last week adopted the directive on crossborder health services. the proposal has the advantage of creating a clear legislative framework, setting out the rules under which european citizens can access health services in the european union in a member state other than the one in which they contribute to the health system, and the way in which patients are reimbursed for their expenses. the proposal, which should have been submitted to the european parliament and the council long ago, is long overdue and timely, especially as healthcare was excluded from the directive on the liberalisation of the commercial services sector. until now, european citizens had to turn to the european court of justice, which in all cases recognized citizens' right to medical treatment and obliged member states to reimburse them for their expenses. i strongly believe that this initiative will have a beneficial effect on improving the health of european citizens who, for various reasons, cannot request services in their home country, as well as on increasing the quality of medical care in the european area.
in the run-up to romania's accession to the european union, many voices were heard in this parliament claiming that the roma ethnic group is discriminated against in romania. a number of ngos have also published various studies in this regard. romania has consistently maintained that roma are a major concern for the authorities, but it cannot be said that there is discrimination. romania has implemented programmes to integrate roma into society, including measures relating in particular to education and even points of positive discrimination. after 2007, roma, not only from romania but also from other eastern countries, spread to europe for economic reasons, but mainly for reasons related to the nomadic tradition of this ethnic group. it was an opportunity for those who gave advice to put it into practice. unfortunately, what is happening in italy is not a european lesson. it is not acceptable to fingerprint european citizens, especially children, and it is not normal to set fire to camps set up with the tacit consent of the authorities. i believe that the situation of the roma is a community issue and i call on all those who have responsibilities - the european institutions, governments, ngos - to contribute to the development of a common, coherent policy for the integration of this ethnic group, but based entirely on european principles.
the commission's work programme for 2008 includes the adoption of the 'greener transport' package as one of its strategic initiatives. in the autumn of this year, the commission will present a legislative proposal for the revision of the eurovignette directive 2006/38. the objective of this review is to ensure a more efficient use of transport infrastructure and to reduce the negative effects of transport on the environment, on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle. in the context of higher fuel prices, the importance of this directive is growing. sustainable economic growth in the union also depends on the development of greener and more energy-efficient transport. i ask the european commission to take the internalisation of external costs of transport into a broader context, namely to review the reduced vat rates applicable in the union, as well as directive 14 of 2001 on the charging and pricing of access to rail transport infrastructure and directive 96 / 2003 on energy taxation.
freedom of expression is a basic principle in the charter of fundamental rights in the european union. this freedom of expression must be guaranteed in each state, including by ensuring the conditions for an independent press. unfortunately, in the republic of moldova, the union of journalists is claiming anti-press acts committed between 2001 and 2008 by the government in chisinau. the facts cited by journalists, through which the government tries to politically subjugate the public media, are: the application of information censorship, the prosecution of journalists for broadcasting opinions that are contrary to state policy, the practice of personal attack, the promotion of unfair competition in the press, the limitation of the space for debate in the public audiovisual - which ultimately affects political pluralism and implicitly democracy. in view of these facts, i believe that the european union must closely monitor the respect for freedom of expression in this country.
thank you, sir. russian summit in the city of khanty-mansiysk in the siberian province of jugria, the situation of the finno-ugric peoples, in two days the fifth world congress of the finno-ugric people. the eu also provides financial support to these peoples in their struggle to preserve their identity. the eu delegation present, as well as the four heads of state, including in particular the speech of the hungarian head of state, stressed the importance of ensuring that the peoples at risk not only have their own dance groups and choirs, but also their own mother tongue education and self-determination. the eu has two messages for this congress. one: the year of intercultural dialogue should not be a dialogue between the cultures of the great nations. the second is that we are faced with the incomprehensible phenomenon of the parliament of an eu country voting to declare its country monolingual, when there are 75 regional languages in that country. if the eu and russia both consider it important to preserve the culture and mother tongue of the peoples living on their territory, then this should be an example for the eu member states to follow. thank you, sir.
the support for the single market is fully justified if we achieve a high degree of consumer satisfaction through safe goods and services and effective ways of solving problems that arise, all while ensuring fair competition. the imco commission's proposals for the 2009 budget follow this line. we are calling for additional funding for the solvit network, which, despite justified expectations, has not been as effective as expected in solving legal problems faced by citizens in the internal market. we also support continued funding of consumer projects, market research, including pricing, and market surveillance measures. the data obtained can explain any distortions and contribute to appropriate measures to correct negative situations. we note that in most of the chapters we are speaking about, the funding is adequate, but we stress with concern the fact that the current structure of budgetary expenditure is totally opaque. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
the first report of the european parliament on the preliminary draft budget for 2009 should capture very clearly the political priorities of the european union today. i therefore believe that the report has highlighted the budgetary shortcomings in combating global warming, but has not sufficiently stressed the issue of the food crisis facing the citizens of the european union. the price crisis and food insecurity we are facing for the first time in over thirty years must be our budgetary priorities. i believe that the only instrument through which we can respond effectively to this situation is the common agricultural policy. this, and this alone, can guarantee sufficient food production in europe. i therefore do not agree that the margins available under title 2 of the european budget should be used for other areas than agriculture. secondly, for several years now, there has been a diversion of money from the first pillar, from direct payments to farmers, to rural development projects under pillar 2 by various means. i remind you that rural development projects will not lead to increased production in europe and by implication to solving the current food crisis. even if the trend of applying these transfers through the modulation instrument has been going on for a few years, we need the best measures for the current challenges at the moment, and these measures are among the traditional instruments of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. the committee on budgets calls for real support for poor regions, calling for a more substantial budget to be made available as an expression of the principle of european solidarity. the jutta haug report looks at the detail of the 2009 budget, focusing on current priorities at eu level, including the fight against climate change and solidarity with poorer regions. this new approach should include a better understanding of the difficulties and needs faced by the poorer regions, with a view to ensuring more consistent funding, which, by monitoring development progress by the competent european institutions, will lead to a reduction of disparities and to ensuring economic and social cohesion. for romania, this change in budgetary outlook may bring good news in terms of financing for development regions, as 6 of the country's 8 development regions are among the 15 poorest regions in the european union, the last in this ranking remaining this year the north east development region. so we have again an important opportunity in what should be our constant struggle and concern to reduce the significant differences that separate us from the regions of the western european states, in economic, social, cultural and civilizational terms.
mr president, this is the fourth time in the last few months that we have spoken on the same issue. the results are modest, as modest as is the attendance in this chamber tonight. this is, perhaps, a shocking thing per se and a matter of concern. roma people are a pan-european ethno-cultural community which does not have a nation state. roma were already present in europe when the european nation states were established. those states kept them in misery, when not in slavery, or sent them to concentration camps. the european union enlargement was the last act of roma liberation. roma are today european citizens. perhaps they are in absolute terms the truest european citizens because they are only europeans. their cultural, social and economic integration is a european challenge. therefore we must communitarise the roma policy. a strategy which only makes recommendations to the states, leaving them the ultimate choice and the ultimate responsibilities, simply does not work. on the other hand, what we are seeing today in italy is the ugliest face of the dangerous phenomenon of the renationalisation of europe. it is the national populist expression of this phenomenon. the italians do indeed have the right not to be afraid, but for any italian citizen the present racist policy of its government is most frightening. today fingerprints; tomorrow forced work; the day after tomorrow concentration camps – and then not just for roma but for any other alliance. we have asked the commission to check the conformity of the italian legislation with european union standards. nothing has been done. the checking was postponed in order to wait for the legislation to be adopted. now the situation is worse. we must take action and use the instruments provided by the treaties in order to stop these dangerous racial developments in italy, thus discouraging similar approaches elsewhere. we must not wait for another holocaust before we organise new referendums to support european integration.
mr president, today we have yet another debate in parliament on the way italy deals with the roma population. this time the flavour of the month, proposed by the italian government, is no less than calling a state of emergency, taking a census of the roma population, and fingerprinting them before expelling them. today i again find myself calling on the commission and the council to react. enough promises: now we want to see the council and the commission take concrete action to make italy comply with eu laws and values. we need an evaluation of the implementation of the eu anti-discrimination directive as we are doing for the free movement directive. we must enforce the integrated approach and speed up the implementation of the eu roma strategy. we have all the instruments available but it seems that when it comes to defending civil liberties versus security there is a certain shyness in applying them. it has been one year now since italy started devising disproportionate and shocking security measures tainted with brown populism. now brown seems to be turning to black. are they really going to hunt roma down in italian streets? will europe continue watching as a silent accomplice?
the situation of minorities in romania was one of the topics of intense debate during the accession negotiations. as regards the roma, the romanian authorities have drawn up an integration strategy approved and monitored by the european commission. this strategy includes a series of actions, particularly in the field of education and access to the labour market, fully complying with european standards. after 2004, part of the roma population moved to other eu countries, based on the principle of freedom of movement. i don't dispute that some of them broke the laws of the states they traveled to. these people must be held accountable for their actions. but i believe that what was demanded of romania must now be demanded of every other member state: coherent integration programmes based on european principles. these programmes must avoid discriminatory actions, such as the recent decision of the italian government to stamp or force actions that can harm honest citizens. attitudes of this kind can create - and i am afraid this has already happened - a negative, undeserved image of other community citizens who live and work in italy and who are valued by the communities in which they have integrated. i ask the french presidency to take all these aspects into account and to put a real european policy for roma integration on its agenda for the six-month period. i ask the commission to systematically report on the situation of roma, reflecting the concrete steps taken towards integration, social inclusion, the way in which european funds have been used and the results achieved. i also appeal to the non-governmental organisations representing the roma community to inform and encourage the citizens whose interests they defend to make the most effective use of the instruments made available to them by the european union and the member states.
mr president, i think it is absolutely unacceptable to tolerate nazi speeches in this house!
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, as far as fingerprinting is concerned, which is directed at one ethnic group, whether directly or indirectly, it is quite clear that it is unacceptable from the point of view of european law. the data protection directive presupposes certain very strict rules and i think that the debate, which was very extensive and very complicated, has shown, among other things, that the situation is evolving very rapidly. i therefore naturally accept the call of some members of parliament and, after discussion with my colleague jacques barrot, i recommend that he inform parliament directly as soon as possible of the latest developments.
in writing. when we discuss the control of an ethnic minority belonging to the eu area, we take on a great responsibility at the ep level, but it is absolutely necessary. the european parliament has a responsibility to make sure that the eu countries are subject to european legislation on this issue. why should not the fingerprinting of the roma lead to a decision on the fingerprinting of all european citizens? this brings us to the need to accept the increasingly pressing reality of the technical and practical realisation of a genuine european citizenship, embodied in a single european electronic identity.
in writing. the fingerprinting of roma citizens is not in line with european law and with any other act guaranteeing human rights in europe. in support of that measure, directive 380 of 28 april 2008 was invoked, which provides for the possibility of fingerprinting third-country nationals. however, i would point out that that act applies to countries outside the european union, so that the measure cannot be justified in that way. fundamentally, directive 38/2004 guarantees the free movement of all citizens of the eu member states, regardless of their ethnicity. the european commission must be informed of the illegality of the measure provided for in the italian civil protection order. there are already positions of some international institutions against this measure. the council of europe has unequivocally condemned the fingerprinting initiative. i think it is time for the european parliament to take note of this and give a firm response to this situation.
in writing. in the context of another debate in the european parliament's plenary on the situation of roma in italy, i would like to draw attention to an aspect that i consider essential for the process of integrating roma communities. i am talking about education, a field that transcends borders, which is essential, given the nomadic nature of the roma population. my experience in the field of education has proved to me that early education can change people's minds, attitudes, and behavior. in italy, as in the other european countries where roma live, education and lifelong learning projects must be developed to promote the customs, traditions and crafts specific to this ethnic group in a way that makes them proud to belong to it. in my view, roma education must be a priority in the european union, as the democratic way to integrate this ethnic group, and above all young people.
in writing. the roma population, wherever they are in the eu member states, must be treated with the respect that all european citizens deserve. the cost of inaction at european and national level in the economic, social and cultural integration of the roma population is becoming increasingly visible. it is time for the member states, the commission and the european council to adopt and implement concrete programmes for their integration. i strongly oppose the measure taken by the italian government to fingerprint the roma population. i call on the european parliament, the council and the european commission to take a clear stand against this racial measure and to call for its annulment by the italian government.
this report deals with environmental problems, but it cannot and will not deal with environmental problems alone. i would like to stress first of all that we will support any project that can improve europe's energy supply. i therefore regret that the european union has not yet adopted a common energy policy. the european union needs common standards, and not just from an environmental point of view, when it comes to large-scale nordstream projects. there are similar projects planned in other parts of europe and these standards, which will be agreed, need to be implemented everywhere. nordstream will be an important precedent and we need to make sure we're going in the right direction. this report is the european parliament's response to a petition with over thirty thousand signatures and we have no right to ignore the opinion of european citizens. the history of human development, especially in the industrial age, has left behind real environmental catastrophes. we, the european parliament, in the europe of 2008, are not allowed to repeat this history.
in writing. – the impulse provided by the nord stream debate represents a good start for europe to finally speak with one voice on energy security issues and to focus on an effective common energy policy. energy security is a vital element in the context of overall eu security and should therefore be treated with utmost care especially in the face of a growing dependency on energy imports, expected to reach 65% by 2030. dependency on gas alone is expected to rise to 84% of supply by 2030. attention should be given to the eu’s distinctive relationship with russia: emphasis should be placed on the creation and observance of equal access conditions and fair treatment of both russian investors in the eu as well as eu investors in russia. alas, the latter case is not yet maintained and should therefore be strived for. moreover, i wish to acknowledge the importance of russia’s possible ratification of the energy charter treaty and the transit protocol in the avoidance of potential nord-stream-project-related disagreements. i would like again to bring into discussion the potentially disastrous environmental consequences that the nord stream project poses, given its scale and proposed route, and to present my support for an alternative inland route.
in writing. i welcome the position adopted by the european parliament on the construction of a gas pipeline linking russia to germany. the european union needs an integrated, common and coherent energy policy and a long-term strategy for ensuring the energy independence of the member states. environmental and geopolitical issues of energy security must be addressed by the european union through a concerted effort of all member states, and not through bilateral treaties concluded by some member states with russia. only in this way can the eu achieve a strong position in the negotiations with russia, avoiding energy resources as a political lever and making the eu an equal partner of russia. in this way we can provide answers to the well-founded frustrations of romanian citizens related to the continuous increase in gas and electricity prices, with important negative socio-economic consequences for romanians and their living standards. at the same time, the solution of a common european energy policy can compensate for the inability of the right-wing governments in bucharest to promote romania's energy interests in relation to russia.
afghanistan remains the greatest challenge to the international community because of terrorist activity, increased drug production and the number of violent acts. in this context, i ask the commission and the council, as well as the international organisations, to consider, as a matter of priority, three major measures for the short-term action plan: the identification and isolation of the distribution channels of drugs in afghanistan, greater involvement of the states of the region in the implementation of international strategies, taking into account the cultural and religious proximity, and greater financial allocation and involvement for reconstruction and for humanitarian and administrative food assistance. i also believe that intensifying political, cultural and religious dialogue with afghanistan is a viable solution to achieving the objectives of stability in the region. i congratulate mr andré brie on his report.
the compromise text drawn up by peter liese is a step forward in the implementation of the european union's climate change agenda. i would first like to stress the agreement to set up a reserve of free allowances for growing airlines. this measure is intended to strengthen this sector in the new member states, that is, exactly where the need for expansion and development is greatest. i also stress the possibility of using part of the revenues from the auctions in the development of the aviation sector. a single, clean and safe sky requires the development and implementation of cooperative technical and operational measures that are cost-effective. the speedy reunification of the european skies will lead to shorter routes, which will mean lower fuel consumption and, consequently, lower emissions, which will mean lower costs under the ets and, consequently, more affordable prices.
in writing. this directive is an ambitious initiative that will enable the aviation sector to play an important role in the fight against climate change. the negotiations for this compromise were difficult because they had to take into account the price of oil, the competitiveness of european airlines and environmental protection, trying to create a model system on the international stage for the inclusion of aviation in the ets. however, the system must not put at risk precisely european airlines which could lose their competitiveness in relation to the competing aviation sector in the usa or dubai. penalising the domestic aviation industry will lead to the phenomenon of 'carbon leakage', i.e. the shift to other markets that have less strict rules than those imposed by the eu, thus triggering a trade war. we must find a balance between environmental protection, consumer protection and the aviation sector if we want european airspace to be more efficient. the revenue from auctioning allowances will also have to be used for greenhouse gas emissions reduction and climate change adaptation, without giving member states the possibility to use this money for other purposes. if we can use this auction revenue in a fair and just way as an environmental tool, we can avoid the penalty of getting an international agreement.
let me first of all thank all the colleagues who voted for the libicki report today. this report does not speak of russophobia or gasophilia, it speaks of the need for the european parliament not to deny and turn its back on petitioners' complaints which concern a sensitive political issue. the question of the common energy policy must be solved by making it community. however, until then, bilateral agreements will have to be integrated into a genuine internal energy policy to ensure that two key objectives are achieved: 1. the outcome of all negotiations is beneficial to each member state2. the vulnerability of member states involved in bilateral agreements with third countries can thus be avoided. these are, in my view, the conditions for any european union energy strategy and it is the great challenge that the european parliament will have in the coming period.
in writing. − we supported the adoption of the general provisions on the establishment of a european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. i believe that this instrument must evolve, with a shift in the financial and budgetary priorities of the european union towards the eastern dimension of the neighbourhood policy, which includes the republic of moldova and ukraine. i supported the adoption of the report in order to talk more and more about a solution on the european vocation and eu integration of the republic of moldova, obviously correlated with democratic progress in the field of media freedom, reforms in the judiciary, guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens and ensuring the rights of opposition parties in the 2009 electoral competition.
in writing. − it is clear that for each commitment period of the union programme in which aviation will be included, the objectives assigned to this sector must be set in convergence and in relation to the average effort assigned to all other fixed-resource sectors in the member states. the non-participation of the aviation sector in this scheme could lead to significant compensatory costs in the long term. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that an integrated approach to the greenhouse gas emission trading system within the community is needed. given that aviation contributes to the global impact of human activities on climate change, it is natural that this sector should benefit from fair treatment and harmonised rules and regulations at community level. it is clear that for each commitment period of the union programme in which aviation will be included, the objectives assigned to this sector must be set in convergence and in relation to the average effort assigned to all other fixed-resource sectors in the member states. the non-participation of the aviation sector in this scheme could lead to significant compensatory costs in the long term.
in writing. − as rapporteur on black sea cooperation, i would like to express my support for the libicki report simply because the subject it deals with is of a strategic nature, going beyond the baltic sea area and the field of environmental protection. we have discussed a common problem, known to both the baltic and the black sea regions and affecting the whole of europe: energy security and european policy in this area. given the eu's dependence on a limited number of sources, suppliers and transport routes, it is vital that their diversification is the fundamental principle of the european energy security concept. equally important is the development of a coherent european energy policy, based on solidarity and coordination, to avoid the conclusion of bilateral agreements which could harm the interests of other member states and, above all, undermine major projects such as nabucco, which are recognised at european level. i therefore reiterate and insist on the call to the commission and the council to redouble their efforts to ensure the successful implementation of the nabucco project and to articulate a clear common energy policy. the situation in the baltic and the black sea indicates the urgency of taking concrete and firm action.
in writing. - welcomes the position adopted by the european parliament on the construction of a gas pipeline linking russia to germany; the european union needs a common and coherent integrated energy policy and a long-term strategy for ensuring the energy independence of the member states. environmental and geopolitical issues of energy security must be addressed by the european union through a concerted effort of all member states, and not through bilateral treaties concluded by some member states with russia. only in this way can the eu achieve a strong position in the negotiations with russia, avoiding energy resources as a political lever and making the eu an equal partner of russia. in this way we can provide answers to the well-founded frustrations of romanian citizens related to the continuous increase in gas and electricity prices, with important negative socio-economic consequences for romanians and their living standards. at the same time, the solution of a common european energy policy can compensate for the inability of the right-wing governments in bucharest to promote romania's energy interests in relation to russia.
in writing. − stabilising afghanistan is a key security policy challenge for the international community and the fight against terrorism. failure to do so could make western states reluctant to engage in future conflict prevention and resolution interventions and peacekeeping operations. on the other hand, a lasting peace could also benefit afghans who are now experiencing their third decade of conflict and whose state has always been a tool that external actors have used for their own needs. military operations are necessary, but they are not a sufficient condition for the stabilization of afghanistan. an important solution in this process must also be sought at the diplomatic level, and cooperation with iran, india and pakistan is essential, especially in the border areas where insurgent groups are active. in this regard, strengthening democratic structures is of paramount importance and the international community should counter the marginalisation of the afghan government by increasing the importance of the political system and democratic actors at local and regional level. the european union has the image of a humanitarian organisation in afghanistan, but to play a more important role, europeans must take into account that poverty and instability are not solved by weapons and violence, but rather by measures that bring about the well-being of the afghan people. it is with this hope that i voted for mr brie's report.
mr president, as shadow rapporteur on the set plan, i warmly welcome this initiative. we are establishing a new energy research agenda for europe, which is much needed in view of the challenges we shall be facing in the next decade. the commission believes that europe should lower the costs of clean energy and put industry at the forefront of the low-carbon technology sector. while i agree with these objectives, i would also say that the best intentions never become reality without proper financing. this is why i regret that the commission did not publish the communication on financing for new low-carbon technologies. how does the commission intend to finance these actions? in any case, let me assure you that parliament will not accept the reallocation of funds from the seventh framework programme or the cap. this question of financing is also raised in regard to the 12 ccs projects. while i believe this technology might help industry to reduce co2 emissions, i cannot accept that european taxpayers’ money be used to finance the development of a ccs infrastructure that will be someone’s business in the end. as a liberal, i believe we have to let the market function and develop, if needed, a fair partnership with the industry.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their long-term strategic approach to the question of natural gas in the european union and energy research. the european union imported 62% of its gas in 2006, and its demand for and dependence on imported gas will increase to 80% by 2030. it is therefore important to find concrete answers to the questions of ensuring the energy security of the european union and the efficient functioning of the energy market. three elements seem to me to be essential in the rapporteurs' proposals. first, as rapporteur on black sea cooperation, i would like to stress the importance of the successful development of regional cooperation and cross-border interconnection. the regional dimension is the appropriate framework to establish common rules and principles and to ensure coordination and transparency in the gas sector. secondly, it is essential to extend the application of these rules to third country companies active in the energy sector in the european union. finally, i fully support the idea of strengthening the scientific research sector in the field of energy as a key element of that long-term policy.
the union needs a common energy policy. priority projects, such as nabuco, which have also been recognised by the european council, will diversify the european union's natural gas supply sources and must be realised. regional cooperation is essential for ensuring the security of energy supply of the union. that is why i believe and have requested, by way of an amendment, that the geographical area covered by each regional cooperation structure be defined by the commission only after consultation with the member states in that geographical area. i also asked, in an amendment, that for any natural gas pipeline project crossing the union's neighbouring seas, the commission and the member states concerned should carry out an environmental impact study. i consider it essential that the public service obligations and the resulting common minimum standards be better consolidated to ensure that gas services can be affordable to the general public and to small and medium-sized enterprises.
we are debating today three reports of importance to the union's energy policy, which refer to energy technology, energy security and the fight against energy poverty as key factors in achieving energy and climate change objectives. the report by mr paparizov defines a new concept of access to the natural gas transmission networks; the report by mr la russa makes an important contribution to the definition of the medium- and long-term strategy for the internal market in natural gas; and the report by mr buzek stresses the need to develop strategic energy technologies. the swift implementation of these reports will develop a more efficient and transparent internal market with direct effects on increasing competitiveness, price transparency to the end user and consumer protection. it is now time for the commission and the council to encourage explicitly and concretely the diversification of sources of supply and the creation of new gas storage capacities to ensure the union's energy independence and security. i would like to conclude by congratulating the three colleagues on the way they have handled the reporting.
mr president, let me place the matter at issue in a larger political perspective. today energy is almost synonymous with foreign policy and tends to relegate even climate change to a secondary position. it is evident that the current situation has caught europe off-guard. our national energy systems are parochial, monopolistic, complicated and obscure. consequently the tendency to try to manage current challenges individually is irresistible. thus efforts to create a single integrated energy market are increasingly resisted and europe’s objective to reduce its dependency on foreign supply sources becomes almost unreachable. equally, attempting to integrate new solutions in old frameworks would only make our task even more difficult. therefore europe urgently needs to overhaul the current arrangements, push decisively for a single energy market and start investing massively in research on alternative sources of energy. for europe this is simply a matter of survival.
i would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs and at the same time say that romania has acted in full accordance with the requirements of creating the single market for natural gas, by completely separating, including from the point of view of ownership, the transport activity from the activity of production and distribution of natural gas. unfortunately, we do not yet have a competitive single market for natural gas in the european union, and some member states are very reluctant to make this separation between production and distribution. the absence of a single market for natural gas allows some major natural gas suppliers to negotiate supply contracts differently with each member state, sometimes imposing or trying to influence political decisions. i therefore believe that these directives must be adopted as soon as possible and fully implemented.
one solution to energy-efficient and less polluting community transport is the development of modern rail transport, both for passengers and freight. as regards the railway safety directive, i think it is necessary to remove heritage, museum or tourist railways from the scope of the directive. it is also essential that all entities in charge of maintenance are certified and carry out maintenance themselves or can contract it to other maintenance workshops. the entity in charge of maintenance should establish, for the basic components or sub-assemblies intended for railway systems, the basic technical parameters and characteristics with regard to maintenance and logistics in order to comply, during their operation, with the conditions laid down in this directive. the european railway agency has a key role to play in the introduction of ertms by 2020. in order to encourage the investments necessary for the interoperability of the union's rail transport systems, it is essential to stabilise the final version of ertms for a certain period. i would like to draw attention to the need to guarantee european citizens the safety of rail transport. i believe that both the member states and the commission should finance more for the development of rail infrastructure and the modernisation of rolling stock. i ask the commission to give more support to new member states whose rail systems require substantial investment. the tran committee has proposed that ertms be made mandatory for gradual deployment in the trans-european transport network (ten-t) and that the granting of european funds be made conditional on the mandatory use of ertms.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. in view of the recent rail accidents, i too would like to stress the importance of the safety of the community's railways. i hope that the new operating rules of the european railway agency will bring more benefits to the consumer and simplify the authorisation procedures for the operation of vehicles. i want to make sure that there is a well-defined entity responsible for the safety and maintenance of each individual vehicle and that we know at all times who that entity is. this authority should ensure that consumer rights are respected in each member state and that compensation for passengers is in line with european law. at the same time, the agency should take into account travel conditions, comfort and safety, as well as keeping fares at the same level. the opportunities and discounts available to young people, students and disadvantaged groups must also be considered. in the hope that the wishes of european consumers will be implemented through the work of the european railway agency we will give it all the necessary support for its functioning.
the new form of the regulation strengthens and improves existing legal provisions on the supervision of operating licences, aircraft leasing, traffic distribution and price transparency. i believe that this ensures better application of the social legislation on rest and working hours and introduces the principle of non-discrimination between air operators and the principle of consulting airports on the distribution of air traffic. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 30 june 2012. this concept could also be used for the development of other types of infrastructure. i believe that there should be no discrimination between passengers on the basis of their place of residence or that of the tourist companies. for citizens to have confidence in air services, it is imperative that quality and safety standards are respected by all air operators and, in particular, that all applicable taxes and charges are explicitly shown on the ticket.
urban policy is not the responsibility of the european union, but of local and regional authorities, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. however, the degree of urbanisation in the union is continuously increasing. over three hundred million citizens live in cities, and the share of the urban population will exceed 80% by the year 2020. urbanization and agglomeration have become a european problem because they affect the well-being of all european citizens. we are seeing in real terms an increased demand for new and diversified modes of transport, which is leading to increased energy consumption, increased land use, and a progressive deterioration in air and soil quality. although there are major differences in national legislation on urban transport and spatial planning, the community institutions can be actively involved in coordinating sustainable urban development and, in particular, urban transport services and can work to ensure the effective dissemination of good practice. mr rack gives us vivid examples of solutions provided by modern technologies such as virtual mobility, but also by the consistent application of multimodality, the optimisation of infrastructure use, the use of alternative modes of transport. education and private initiative are essential to a green europe of cities, and community policies as a whole must take account of all the long-term costs and provide relevant suggestions, effective interregional and crossborder cooperation mechanisms and the necessary information resources. the structural and cohesion funds, which are largely the main cause of urbanisation, must become, through their judicious use at local and regional level, the most effective and readily available resource for solving this challenge facing europe in the 21st century.
i congratulate mr rack on his report. the union needs a new culture of urban mobility, in which public transport and cycling must become more important. the development of public transport requires policies at local, regional or national level for the partial or full subsidisation of public transport services for certain categories of people such as pupils, students, pensioners, disabled people. i consider it necessary that urban development and planning be carried out in an integrated manner, taking into account also current and future needs in the field of urban transport. the introduction of high-speed trains connecting the city centre to river and rail stations, airports and especially to peripheral regions should be a priority in the development and modernisation of large cities. locations with access to an inland waterway can develop intermodal transport to reduce pollution from road traffic in large cities. intelligent transport systems and the development of green areas must be integrated into the new urban mobility policy.
in writing. a new approach to urban mobility is, in my view, essential in the modern city. economic growth in the 1950s and 1960s led to the spread of the horizontal city model in europe, with its population moving away from the centre to the suburbs. but this model, fostered by the proliferation of the car, is no longer sustainable today, in the context of unprecedented fuel prices and concern about global climate change, among which the internal combustion engine is a major source of pollution. initiatives that would enable european cities to plan efficient public transport systems that respect the environment and are accessible to all are welcome, as is the integration into urban planning of alternative modes of transport, whether they are short-distance or varied depending on the time of day. another challenge is urban freight transport, which is essential to the city's economic well-being. this is why i think it is important to implement practices such as exchanges of experience between european city administrations, european-wide urban optimisation databases, and to encourage citizens to change the way they approach personal transport in urban environments.
madam president, i wish to commend the rapporteur on his work. an annual report can speak volumes about achievements and also about policy intricacies and trade-offs. the current inflation rates in europe are tormenting policymakers and citizens. the european central bank has built up its credibility through consistent policies. this performance has been enhanced by this inflation import on the wave of globalisation and the asian economic rise. unfortunately, a reverse situation is under way nowadays because of huge energy and food price rises which reflect the increasing scarcity of available resources. the cost-push pressure is straining markets worldwide. the inflation rate in the euro area is at its highest level for 10 years. this is very worrying, and stagflation also seems to be around the corner. moreover, the financial crisis has complicated the european central bank’s task enormously. the ecb has to fight inflation tenaciously, and anchoring inflation expectations is key in this regard. but the risks are high. it is not clear how long the exogenous cost-push will last. it is critical that a wage price spiral be averted. as we used to talk about inflation moderation in the past decade, so we should strive to achieve moderation of price and wage dynamics in the period to come. more economic divergence in the euro area, which would not foster a good climate for the european central bank’s moves. in addition, when markets are increasingly global, what the european central bank does has to be examined in relation to what other major counterparts do. here it is about interest-rate differentials and overall policy stances. a final note. the grave systemic risks financial markets carry nowadays demand better supervision frameworks, better coordination among the ecb, the fed and other major central banks. the dangers of too-easy-money policies are to be underlined in this regard.
the european central bank is working to ensure price stability amid high uncertainty and inflationary pressures. we do not yet know whether the current level of energy and food prices is the one on which the whole price structure will be based, nor do we know what public policy measures member states will take to facilitate the process of adjustment of businesses and economies and households to the new price structure. the financial crisis is also far from over. as a member of the european parliament, i appreciate the competence and integrity of the european central bank's monetary policies and the determination of its president to stay on target of inflation which characterises the measure of price stability. i express my confidence in the good judgment of the european central bank, in the integrity and independence of the european central bank and in the reluctance of politicians to interfere in the decisions of this bank.
in writing. – as regards economic developments, the fundamentals of the euro-area economy remain sound due to investment growth and improved employment rates and labour-force participation. while moderating, growth in the world economy is expected to remain resilient, benefiting in particular from continued robust growth in emerging economies. with regard to price developments, annual hicp inflation has remained well above the level consistent with price stability since last autumn, reaching 3.7% in may 2008 and – according to eurostat’s flash estimate – 4.0% in june. this worrying level of inflation rates results largely from sharp increases in energy and food prices at the global level in recent months. the uncertainty surrounding this outlook for economic activity remains high and downside risks prevail. in particular, risks stem from the dampening impact on consumption and investment of further unanticipated increases in energy and food prices. moreover, downside risks continue to relate to the potential for the ongoing financial market tensions to affect the real economy more adversely than anticipated. in these circumstances the decision taken by the ecb to raise by 25 basis points to 4.25% the minimum bid rate on the main refinancing operations of the eurosystem is welcome and should be congratulated!
we have often spoken of the purely technical nature of this regulation. in fact, it was a misconception that obscures a deeply political aspect. we have the european union as a single market, but 27 different social security systems. millions of citizens work in countries other than their own and must enjoy the legal social rights that belong to them and their families. institutions need to manage this situation and providers need to discount their services. the rules on which we are dealing with today predate the internet, when the union had six member states with sedentary citizens. today, there are 27 inhabited by citizens who tend to become migrants. modernisation, simplification and adaptation of these rules to the new reality was absolutely necessary. that is the aim of regulation 883/2004, but it cannot be applied without procedures. we are in 2008, four years behind schedule, both for the employees who are claiming their rights and for the efficiency of the companies and institutions involved. there's a saying that "the devil is in the details". today we must congratulate the reporters jean lambert and emine bozkurt because, by solving the problem of detail, we expect a flow of information, with data security and more efficient coordination. the new social agenda proposes these days minor improvements against a background of major shortcomings. the enforcement of regulation 883 is good news. it only slightly mitigates the feeling that the european social agenda has been stagnating in recent years.
the rules on the coordination of social security systems are closely linked to the principle of free movement of persons and should improve the living standards and employment conditions of citizens living in another member state of the european union. the regulation as amended by the rapporteurs simplifies all these procedures and extends its scope to all categories of citizens, both those in employment and those without a job. european citizens must be able to enjoy pension rights in the full amount corresponding to their length of service. once they settle in another eu country, citizens need to find an administrative system capable of collecting all the information on past employment and financial rights arising from their professional activity. that is why i would have liked the commission's proposal to include as precise a solution as possible for how member states can effectively transfer information on social rights. furthermore, i consider this regulation to be fundamental to european labour mobility. a eurobarometer survey shows that more than 50% of citizens are discouraged by the social insecurity they expect to experience as a result of moving to another member state. as a result, only 2% of european citizens currently live in a member state other than the one of which they are a national. if we want mobility to be a real engine of the european economy, we must remove all administrative barriers to the portability of social rights.
in writing. - i voted for the lambert report because it is a response to the needs of the citizens. we live in a world of globalisation where thousands of people work in a country other than their country of residence, we need a coordination of social security systems for all people exercising their right to work in other countries, to guarantee and support mobility which is a fundamental right in the european union. europe allows us to move freely, but it must also give us more social rights, which do not have to stop at national borders. in the hope that european citizens will be able to benefit from social security equality of treatment and non-discrimination i support the initiative to facilitate the freedom of movement of workers. all barriers to mobility must be removed.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the council would like to thank the european parliament and in particular mr brok for his report on the commission's 2007 strategy paper on enlargement and to take this opportunity to welcome the active role and valuable contribution of the european parliament in the enlargement process. the report by elmar brok indicates that the latest enlargement has been a success for both the european union and the member states which have joined it. we believe that enlargement has been a success for the union and has helped to overcome the division of europe and has contributed to peace and stability throughout the continent. it has inspired reforms and consolidated common principles on freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the market economy. the enlargement of the internal market and economic cooperation has increased prosperity and competitiveness, enabling the european union to better respond to the challenge of globalisation and also facilitating trade with our partners. there is no doubt that enlargement has thus increased the european union's weight in the world and made it a stronger international player. our enlargement policy is well established and has incorporated the lessons learned from previous enlargements. in december 2007, the union agreed that the future enlargement strategy would be based on consolidating commitments, fair and rigorous conditionality and better communication. this remains the basis of our approach to enlargement. the union concluded that in order to maintain its capacity for integration, the acceding countries must be willing to assume fully the obligations arising from accession and that the union must be able to function effectively and move forward as mr elmar brok stressed in his speech. both of these aspects are essential if we are to win the broad and lasting support of public opinion. they should be mobilised through greater transparency and better communication on these issues and i am counting on the european parliament to help us in this. as regards the negotiations currently under way, the union will honour its commitments. as regards turkey, the analytical examination, i.e. the first formal step for each chapter, was concluded for 23 chapters, of which 8 were opened. as regards croatia, 20 chapters were opened and 2 of them were provisionally closed. intergovernmental conferences were held at ministerial level on 17 june with turkey and croatia to open chapter 6 'corporate rights', chapter 7 'intellectual property rights as regards turkey', chapter 2 'free movement of workers' and chapter 19 'social policy and employment as regards croatia'. we are determined to move these negotiations forward and, as far as our relations with turkey are concerned, we want the process of reform to continue and intensify. this will ensure the irreversibility and sustainability of the process and we will continue to monitor closely progress in all areas, in particular with regard to compliance with the copenhagen criteria. of course, progress must also be made towards the normalisation of bilateral relations with the republic of cyprus. as regards croatia, the negotiations are progressing well, having entered a decisive phase this year, and the main objective is now to continue to build on the progress made and to accelerate the pace of reforms. the european union therefore encourages croatia to continue its efforts to establish good neighbourly relations, including work to find final solutions acceptable to both sides, and, of course, to resolve outstanding bilateral issues with its neighbours. but i would also like to take this opportunity, if i may, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner olli rehn, to condemn in the name of the presidency in the strongest terms the violent action which took place this morning in istanbul and which caused casualties among the police officers who were on duty outside the united states embassy in istanbul. i should like to point out that we, on behalf of the presidency, condemn this absolutely heinous attack and that we are of course close to the turkish authorities at this time. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank elmar brok and the committee for a highly interesting report. your debate takes place while the eu is reflecting on the situation created by the irish ‘no’. at the same time, the course of events in south-eastern europe reminds us of our immediate responsibility to promote stability and democracy on the european continent. the eu’s consolidated enlargement agenda covers the western balkans and turkey. i welcome the report’s firm commitment towards their membership perspective. the commission shares many points of the report, including integration capacity, which is definitely an important issue to be taken into account in eu enlargement. i note with interest the report’s proposal on a european economic area plus for relations with countries that are not part of the current enlargement agenda. in the face of economic globalisation, it makes sense to extend the european legal and economic space and thus to make the wider europe stronger in terms of our soft regulatory power. yet for the western balkans and turkey, which have a clear membership perspective, the eu must not impose new intermediate stages before candidacy or accession. that would only create doubts about the eu’s commitment, thus weakening the necessary incentive for democratic reform. the june european council last month reaffirmed its full support for the european perspective of the western balkans. it is a powerful message: the eu keeps its word. this is also a vital message to turkey. the eu accession process is advancing: two more chapters were opened in mid-june. with regard to turkey, last year we kept the process alive together and muddled through very troubled waters. it was a victory that required vision and stamina. the stage was set for success in 2008, so as to revitalise turkey’s eu accession process this year. sadly, we have not seen such revitalisation, for reasons mainly internal to turkey. we in the eu want to continue the process according to the terms defined in the negotiating framework. for its part, turkey now needs to improve the democratic functioning of its state institutions and work towards the necessary compromises to continue eu-related reforms. i sincerely hope that calm and reason will prevail, so that turkey can avoid stagnation and instead make progress and continue on its european journey with a clear sense of direction and determination. i would like to use this opportunity to add a few words concerning today’s events in turkey and join minister jean-pierre jouyet in this matter. the commission strongly condemns the kidnapping of three german tourists in eastern turkey, and we call for their immediate release. the commission strongly condemns the violent armed attack in istanbul this morning. i would like to express my condolences to the family and friends of the policemen who were killed, and i wish the injured policemen a speedy recovery. to conclude, enlargement was always going to be a long-term effort and one which has to ride out political storms in ankara, belgrade, brussels and many other capitals in europe. we cannot take any sabbaticals from this work for peace and prosperity that serves the fundamental interest of the european union and its citizens. i trust i can count on your support in this regard.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the european union's enlargement strategy must be based on the experience gained so far and on the current political and economic situation. previous enlargements have benefited both the union and the member states. it should be noted, however, that the countries that have joined have gone through unequal periods of negotiation and have had and have different paths to real integration into the european union. the european institutions have had difficulty adjusting to the increase in the number of member states. there are arguments for further enlargement of the union. i think it would be to the detriment of the union if countries like the balkans or the republic of moldova remained outside the union. eastern european countries benefit from historical and geographical considerations in applying to join the european union. there are economic necessities that do not allow us to suspend enlargement, for example the energy dossier. we also have to deal with external political influences that can have adverse repercussions. we need neighbouring states that develop strong democracies, functioning market economies and the rule of law. at the moment, the neighbourhood policy is being embodied in cooperation or association pacts, which carry out activities similar to those in a negotiation process, but at a much less consistent level. i think that these links should include and apply identical procedures to those in the negotiating chapters. i am convinced that countries that really want to be part of the union would accept these conditions, even if they did not sign a prior agreement with the candidate country, and the benefits would be very great for both sides. the enlargement will thus put the countries in a position to integrate quickly. but to strengthen the european union and to bring about a new enlargement, there is one prerequisite: reform of the european institutions. ratification of the lisbon treaty is therefore a necessity that must be understood and fulfilled by all member states. the content of the brok report provides clarification on the next steps for the union, which must be taken into account by the european commission.
mr president, there can be no strategy without a scope of purpose. the ambiguity of the european union purpose when we come to the enlargement policy is an obstacle which no rapporteur could overcome. this report is a victim of such ambiguity. our duty and our ultimate scope is to grant security to our citizens. our citizens feel unprotected. in order to protect them, the european union needs power. in order to be powerful in a global world, the european union needs both enlargement and internal reform. since we failed to tell our citizens that the rights they have already acquired are not sustainable, they think that they can preserve those rights by opposing both enlargement and reform. under such circumstances the future of the european union is in jeopardy. enlargement is not a concession made to the candidate countries. some of them, such as ukraine, serbia, moldova and turkey, have alternatives – maybe worse, but alternatives. in these cases we are in competition with others. some of their internal problems could be solved better inside, rather than outside, the european union. if we do not offer them prospects, we do not offer our citizens security. it is not the candidate countries or the new member states that are indigestible: our digestive system is too slow. either we find a good digestive quickly or we will be obliged to starve for a long time.
strengthening the european union's role as an international actor is impossible without continuing to adapt to the global context of the 21st century. the geostrategic element in this direction is enlargement, and previous enlargements, including the last one in 2007, have demonstrated the indisputable advantages of this process. it is therefore essential that this process continues and i welcome the reiteration in this report of the firm commitment to the western balkan countries. equally important, however, is the provision of a clear european perspective to european neighbourhood partners, including the republic of moldova. i would remind you that we are talking about european countries which have declared their objective to have a european perspective, and the treaty of rome explicitly states that any european state can apply to become a member of the community, provided that it meets the copenhagen criteria. i call on the commission and the council to... (the president withdrew the floor) )
mr president, the irish setback to the lisbon treaty has provided enlargement sceptics with an unexpected opportunity: the eu has to stop considering new members, because there is simply no room for them. of course, in strict legal terms, this is true at the moment, but, at the same time, we should make a clear distinction between the lisbon treaty and enlargement. firstly, because the rationale for the treaty has not been enlargement per se but the adaptation of the eu to a globalised context and, secondly, because enlargement is a political rather than a strictly legal matter. enlargement is a power ingredient showing attractiveness and authority as well as the absorption capacity – things we do not miss a chance to claim for our union. therefore, strategic planning, actual negotiations and new initiatives in relation to further enlargement should continue in parallel to the efforts to ratify the lisbon treaty.
enlargement has proved to be one of the european union's most powerful political instruments, serving the union's strategic interests of stability, security and conflict prevention. this has contributed to greater prosperity, growth opportunities, and vital transport and energy corridors. the enlargement policy of the european union has been a success for the european union and for europe as a whole. in this context, it is important to keep the door open to both candidate and potential candidate countries and those with european perspectives in the east of the continent, subject of course to the fulfilment of the criteria and commitments required by them. but to continue enlargement we need a reliable solution for the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. (the president withdrew the floor. )
in writing. the prospect of south east european countries joining the european union is driving reforms towards democratic transformation in these countries. the commission's 2007 enlargement strategy paper must send a clear signal of firm commitment to countries with which accession negotiations have started or with which accession prospects are in sight. this is the case, inter alia, of serbia and the republic of moldova. for the latter, romania is a window through which moldovan citizens can maintain hope in a more democratic and prosperous european future. a future accession to the european union is an impetus for the democratic opposition in the republic of moldova to continue the fight for the establishment of democratic legislative and institutional structures, a process that the eu has committed itself to encouraging. the need for internal institutional reforms in the eu, through the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, cannot be a precondition and a pretext for blocking the enlargement of the union.
in writing. eu enlargement has always been only a matter of time and of the compatibility of the political and economic systems between the member countries. a brief review of the 2004 and 2007 enlargement process shows a stronger and more dynamic union both internally and externally, demonstrating that the enlargement process has been beneficial both for the union and for the new countries, but also that we are only adding values within the union, not problems. the political and economic context, european and global, is probably not the most favourable for rapid enlargement, but this should not prevent us from preparing, developing and even reforming enlargement strategies and mechanisms. the western balkan countries, moldova, ukraine and turkey are countries that have expressed interest in joining the eu and enjoy privileged partnerships with the eu, but also have to work internally on compliance with european standards, democracy, stability and prosperity. in this context, i congratulate mr brok on the balance and pragmatism of his report and i hope that a solution will be found quickly to enable all the member states to ratify the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on the objectivity with which he has expressed the european parliament's position on the commission's 2007 enlargement strategy paper. with each enlargement, the european community has become stronger, and the enlargement process itself has been a success for all member states. the european union has made an astonishing evolution through the institutions and policies it has developed both internally and externally, but especially through the promotion of harmonisation in areas such as economic, social and legal. the union also faces a number of problems which demonstrate the need for each enlargement to be followed by an appropriate consolidation and reassessment of its policies, thus avoiding situations where countries at the centre move towards deeper integration while others remain on the periphery. i support the rapporteur's view that the eastern states should be encouraged to create a common policy area focusing on economic, trade, energy, transport, environment, rule of law, justice and security. by encouraging such projects, the black sea region could become a pole of development and economic growth that would not only promote the welfare of the states in the area, but also the stability and peace on the eastern border of the european union.
in writing. as a member of parliament representing romania, a country that has recently joined the european union, and as a former rector of a prestigious university in my country, i would like to stress the importance of cultural and educational exchanges between the candidate countries and the eu member states. in romania, many young people who benefited from one of the european union's mobility schemes (whether it was programmes such as socrates-erasmus, marie curie - for research or leondardo - for practice) returned to the country and played an active role in what we could call its 'europeanisation'. thanks to their learning and life experience, they have become active members of ngos, have been involved in information activities, volunteered or used their knowledge in structures related to european integration. these are the reasons why i would like to draw attention to the importance of taking measures to increase attractiveness and promote participation in eu education and culture programmes, such as establishing a special scheme for study visas, increasing funds for mobility - to cover the real cost of living in an eu country, intensifying efforts to promote european programmes, especially among young people, and disseminating positive results/experiences both in european and candidate countries.
in writing. - i hope that the vote we have taken today will facilitate negotiations with the united states on visa waivers and that soon all citizens of the member states will be able to travel freely and enjoy the same treatment. it is imperative that one of the subjects negotiated by the french presidency be the criteria for granting visas to the united states to all citizens of the european community.
in writing. − the reduction in the roma population at issue comes at a crucial moment, when concrete events demonstrate that there are still considerable shortcomings in national and european policies in this area and that the need to monitor and strengthen them is obvious. i believe that the balance of the debate and the resolution on the roma footprint in italy must be based on two key conclusions. first, it is essential that national measures concerning the roma population are geared towards social integration and the creation of a framework of rights and responsibilities for these citizens. but they must comply with the eu's fundamental principles of non-discrimination and respect for human freedom and dignity. the rights of minors, regardless of their ethnicity, must be ensured as a matter of priority. this approach has been applied in romania and needs to be extended to the situation in the other member states. secondly, given the cultural peculiarities of the roma population, the solution to their integration must be found at european level by developing a coherent and comprehensive strategy. in addition to guaranteeing fundamental rights, this strategy should promote access to education, especially education for tolerance in the context of the 2008 intercultural dialogue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution and welcome the fact that the european parliament is taking a stand against this discriminatory and illegal action under european human rights law. i would point out, however, that a simple resolution does not resolve the substantive issue, since this legislative act is non-binding. i therefore believe that we must ask the european commission to take action against italy to force it to abandon its discriminatory policy against the roma population. the fingerprinting measure is not in accordance with european law and any other act that guarantees human rights in europe. at community level, there is directive 380 of 28 april 2008, which provides for the obligation to take fingerprints for third-country nationals from the age of six. i would stress, however, that we are talking about third countries which do not belong to the european union. moreover, directive 2004/38/ec guarantees the free movement of nationals who are nationals of a member state, so that ethnicity cannot in any way be the basis for a legislative measure.
in writing. − i believe that the italian government's decision to stamp roma citizens and, in particular, children, seriously violates the fundamental rights of european citizens. a child's imprint at an early age can mark him for life. fingerprinting of children under 14 is done on the basis of a form used in criminal investigations, which violates the fundamental rights of citizens. i voted against the motion to postpone the vote because the situation is urgent and the fingerprinting of children must stop. you cannot escape the presumption of guilt of some children, and the treatment of roma children in italy today is unacceptable. we call on the italian government to stop fingerprinting roma minors in italy. the union must set an example in respecting fundamental rights and therefore the commission must investigate the situation in italy and ask the italian government to stop fingerprinting roma children as a matter of urgency. that is why i voted for the european parliament resolution on stopping the fingerprinting of roma citizens and especially roma children in the wider context of 'creating a database of fingerprints of roma people in italy'.
in writing. − as a member of the delegation for relations with china, i hope that by voting today we will convince the chinese authorities to respect their own public commitments on human rights, minority rights, democracy and the rule of law. i encourage the chinese authorities to take urgent action to improve the human rights situation by pardoning all political prisoners and human rights activists in prison, including those imprisoned in tibet following the protests in march 2008.
in writing. − mr president, appreciating the complexity and timeliness of the commission's 2007 enlargement strategy paper, we believe that in the new context created by the irish popular vote, at least the internal dimension of the enlargement strategy should be the subject of more applied debate. the union's ability to achieve its policy objectives and to achieve functional regional cooperation, in particular with the countries of south-east europe, depends on the way in which intra-community relations are established. i would like to stress that any negotiating formula which introduces differential treatment for another member state, whatever the reasoning, will create a 'chain of weaknesses' and i do not believe that such an approach can bring any long-term benefits. the success of our future actions depends on how we explain to the public the direct impact and long-term benefits of enlargement. i would even say that the irish vote can be seen in a constructive way: it is proof that we have not always been able to be open partners with the ordinary citizen, who is more the subject of effective political practices than the defender of visionary ideas and concepts.
mr president, the europeans have high hopes for the french presidency. that hope will have to be managed well. the presidency must avoid feeding both unrealistic dreams and unreasonable fears, including in neighbouring and candidate countries. as regards the lisbon treaty, the diplomatic encouragement for ratification is not enough. the presidency must help to draw up an exit strategy or a back-up strategy in case things go wrong. to avoid the worst, we must show from the beginning that we are prepared to face the worst. in conclusion, a few words on the dangerous phenomenon of the renationalization of europe. national populism is the most frightening expression of this phenomenon. it is also at the origin of the propaganda in favour of the irish "no", of racial xenophobia in italy but also of the rhetoric on the national character of social policies. europe will either be social or it will collapse. i hope that the french presidency will also be sensitive to this aspect of things.
in writing. i believe that france has taken over the presidency of the european union at a crucial moment, when europe is looking for appropriate responses to a number of strategic challenges. france is responsible for ensuring the continuity of the ratification process of the lisbon treaty, focusing on energy and strengthening the european union's security and defence policy. i express my support for these priorities of the french presidency and hope that they will be successfully implemented. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs and the rapporteur on black sea cooperation, i want to focus on an important issue to be promoted in the eu's foreign policy. i welcome france's initiative to strengthen the european neighbourhood policy, but i insist that its eastern dimension should receive the same level of attention and involvement as the mediterranean dimension. this objective should apply both to bilateral relations in the context of the negotiations on future contractual relations with the eu and to multilateral relations in the framework of the black sea synergy. finally, the french presidency will be exercised during the year of intercultural dialogue and actions in this field must be continued successfully.
in writing. mr president, you have presented a very ambitious programme which i hope will be successfully completed. the immigration pact is an absolutely necessary priority to reduce illegal immigration and build a common policy for legal immigration. i would like to stress one point, however, which you must bear in mind before you start the proposed actions: the pact must include a series of measures to take account of the restrictions on the european labour market imposed on workers in some of the new member states. it is not normal for economic migration from third countries to precede free movement between states within the union. there are member states with transitional provisions governing access to the labour market for eu workers. with the implementation of legal migration policy, there is a risk of european citizens being disadvantaged compared to those from third countries. i would like to congratulate france on taking the first step in this direction on 1 july, when it opened its labour market to nationals of the countries that joined in 2004. i hope that romania and bulgaria will be given the same treatment as soon as possible and i encourage the other member states to follow france's example.
in writing. – france has taken upon itself the mission to lead the european agenda for six months in a difficult context created after ireland rejected the lisbon treaty. the programme of the french presidency of the eu is ambitious, but it should also be aware of the expectations of the population. the latest eurobarometer poll shows that only 52% of eu citizens consider membership to be a good thing for their country. there is need of a strategy to make european citizens aware that the common interests are much more important from an economic and political view than the things that differentiate us. obviously, the priority of the french presidency is the identification of the method of absorption of the irish flaw as the european process must go on given that the treaty of nice blocks enlargement. as regards the second priority of the french presidency of the eu – the common agricultural policy and its preparation for future challenges – mention should be made that the maintaining of a single-payment system is applicable in romania as of 2013. a beneficiary of the cap as well, romania will receive this year eur 735 million in european direct aid for romanian farmers.
in writing. the french presidency has a great responsibility for the future of the european union over the next six months. the union needs the treaty of lisbon. the existing institutional framework, with the need for unanimity for certain decisions, is a difficult one. the lisbon treaty also increases the degree of democratisation, increasing the power of national parliaments and introducing the codecision procedure in the vast majority of areas. the french presidency must also support the common agricultural policy, which will enable european farmers to produce more. the french presidency will have to find solutions, together with all the member states, to the impasse in which the union finds itself following the irish referendum. the french presidency has announced that its priorities for the coming period are: climate change, migration, the common agricultural policy, defence and security of the union. the union will take part in the conclusion of a post-kyoto international agreement in copenhagen next autumn. the union must set an example of action in the fight against climate change and therefore the adoption of the energy and climate change package must be one of the main objectives of the french presidency.
more than 40 countries have abolished the death penalty since 1990, and more than 120 states now have a law against it. at european level, the european convention on human rights, which contains an article 2 on the right to life and a protocol 6 to article 1 'abolition of the death penalty', states that no one may be sentenced to such a penalty or executed. the world has seen statistics that are shocking. over 1591 people were executed in 2006, over 3861 people were sentenced to death in 55 countries. i believe that no man has been given the right to take the life of his fellow man. how can you take something that doesn't belong to you? in my mind, i cannot conceive of such a thing, especially since it has been found that in countries where the death penalty is in force, such sanctions do not reduce the number of serious crimes. we propose to change the sentence from death to imprisonment.
with the russian parliament's recognition of the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia, the settlement of the nistru conflict over the transnistrian issue enters a new stage. it is clear to all of us that russia's foreign policy has taken a new turn with this decision of the russian parliament and that is why a repositioning at the level of the whole union is necessary to take account of this reality. given that the issue of transnistria, an area close to the eastern border of the european union, is of marked interest to all member states and in particular to romania, i believe that decisive involvement at community level is necessary to avoid unnecessary strain on relations between states and entities that have declared interests in the area. since natalia timakova, spokeswoman for dmitry medvedev, announced that more meetings would be held with the participation of all interested parties, including representatives from tiraspol, it would not be unimportant to examine here the possibility of setting up a committee to define and present the community's position on the matter. a recent study by the european council on foreign relations reveals that, following the events in georgia, the negotiations for the moldova-transnistria agreement will be much tougher.
mr president, georgia is not just another international crisis to which the eu has to respond. it signals russia’s military comeback, heralded by its offensive energy supply policy initiated in 2006. the eu is caught between principles and economic interests. upholding the former would imply a readiness to sacrifice the latter. conversely, giving priority to the latter would imply a major loss of face. in its turn, russia is equally caught between the profits from its energy sales to the west and respect for international legality. the latter cannot be disrespected with impunity. that is the message our leaders should convey to moscow loudly and clearly. it would be a major waste for the entire international community if russia chose to invest its newly-acquired energies in a futile attempt to restore the bipolar world, instead of associating itself with shaping the new, multipolar, globalised one.
i'll talk about the blocking of sapard payments to romania and its effects in the short and medium term. a european commission mission in june 2008 visited bulgaria and romania and ordered the suspension of payments in sapard projects. corrective action was requested for procedures that are considered non-compliant and in romania the authorities directly involved and responsible proposed a corrective action plan which was accepted. the difficulties are just beginning, though. national payments will resume, probably in september, with the implementation of payment procedures, with the assurance that they are compliant by an independent audit, which can take a year, and with the major risk that the money may be lost permanently, unfortunately in an area that was heavily affected by floods this summer. if the 12 previous audit missions have not found irregularities, if the shortcomings are not fundamental, i wonder and i ask the european commission whether the savings to the agricultural budget are sometimes more important than the sapard projects and their results. i see only one solution, and that is to accept the extension of the term for another year.
rapporteur. − madam president, conceiving of the european union as an area of freedom, security and justice would be nothing but a remarkable goal without the involvement of the already-established european agencies, whose capacities to act and react to combat organised cross-border crime should become stronger. i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, with whom i have worked very well on nearly all aspects of this report, and also the president of eurojust and his team for their openness during this process. while drawing up this report, i heard many colleagues call for a european prosecutor. in this respect, i am much more in favour of harmonisation and the setting-up of a european justice system than of reinforcing cooperation. however, for a number of reasons we are, for the time being, still pretty far from such a goal: firstly, because there is no european legislation addressing the issue of jurisdiction in cases that are the competence of eurojust; secondly, because of the reluctance shown by member states even to transfer some of their investigative powers to a european agency. the text on the possibility of eurojust’s national members being part of a joint investigation teams provides a good example. it is a paradox that while the members of the european parliament are ready to truly address serious cross-border crime – including by granting more powers to eurojust, with our major concern being respect for human rights – the member states are preaching one thing but legislating in another. it is difficult to explain to european citizens how we can establish an area of freedom, security and justice if member states do not sufficiently trust our own european agencies. we as a parliament understand and agree with the fact that eurojust must work 24 hours a day, seven days a week. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has also agreed that in order for eurojust to be efficient it is essential for its national members to have the same judicial powers they enjoy in their own countries. it also voted in favour of strengthening relations with europol and the european judicial network, and of creating links with other european and international agencies, such as frontex, interpol and the world customs organisation. what we as members of this parliament require – and the report is a reflection of this approach – is a proper balance between the powers of eurojust and those of its national members, on the one hand, and the rights of the defendant, on the other. that is why several of the amendments i have tabled aim to increase the level of protection of procedural rights, such as the right to defence, the right to a fair trial, the right to be informed and the right to judicial redress. at the same time, although we are aware of the strong data-protection system established by the agency, several amendments represent additional safeguards. however, a major concern still exists about data transmitted to third countries and international organisations, because the truth is that we do not know, in reality, what will happen to this data. therefore, in order to make sure that our own european standards are observed, i propose setting up an evaluation mechanism. i should like to thank commissioner barrot for mentioning this. last but not least, i am concerned about the role that the european parliament should play in relation to eurojust. not knowing what the fate of the lisbon treaty will be makes things even more worrisome. however, there is nothing in current community law to prevent parliament from playing an active role in supervising the activities of eurojust. it is entirely a matter of political will, and i truly hope that this house will be allowed to do its job.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the freedom of movement of european citizens unfortunately also makes it easier and faster for criminals to move around. crossborder crime has thus increased and the legal system must and will continue to adapt to the new situation. i have thus seen the need to harmonize the laws of the member states and, especially during this period, the need for rapid and effective information to the competent authorities of the member states. this report is clearly a step forward in addressing these challenges facing european citizens and institutions. the modernisation of the european judicial network will provide an adequate response to cross-border crime. the report, which was voted unanimously in the libe committee, makes the european judicial network more efficient, making it able to provide the necessary information permanently and from anywhere in the member states. the beneficiaries of this modernisation will be european citizens, who will realise that national legal institutions have the means to react quickly, through a modern and secure telecommunications network. both eurojust and the judiciary in the member states will be able to rely on the structure of the european judicial network, with no one able to find excuses for not having the necessary information. as shadow rapporteur for the people's group, i would like to thank rapporteur silvia-yvonne kaufmann for her work and for the way in which we have managed to find compromise solutions.
first of all, i'd like to congratulate the reporters. in recent years, the work of the european judicial network and eurojust has proved to be extremely important and useful in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the adoption of the council decision on the european judicial network and the decision on the strengthening of eurojust are necessary to make the two structures more and more rapid, given that the mobility of persons and cross-border crime have increased greatly in recent years. the two structures must cooperate and complement each other. the creation of a contact point as a national correspondent for the coordination of the work of the european judicial network, as well as the creation of a national eurojust coordination system, are important for a permanent mutual information and for the orientation of national authorities to either the judicial network or eurojust, depending on the characteristics of the cases handled. structured and timely information is essential for the efficiency of eurojust's work. increased attention should be paid to the establishment of the dedicated communication network for the transmission of personal data. ensuring an adequate level of data protection in the work of the two structures is of the utmost importance.
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, your remarks this afternoon show that you are very interested in these three texts. they also show your commitment to ensuring that progress in judicial cooperation, particularly in criminal matters, is combined in a demanding manner and, as you have said, with respect for fundamental rights. this double requirement is essential, because it is the very condition for the construction of the european judicial area, because we all have different legal systems, or even different judicial organisations. the guarantees provided for the functioning of eurojust and the judicial network, as well as those that will be provided for the enforcement of judgments in default, obviously follow the same logic. i would therefore like to thank the european commission, and jacques barrot in particular, for his support for the presidency. as you have said, many of the elements of the reports were taken up by the council in a manner which was, in the end, almost unanimous. as you said, we have a lot to do and we have to do it together. i would also like to thank sylvia kaufmann for her report and for her speech today, because the restoration of the european judicial network is indeed an important step towards improving judicial cooperation in criminal matters and it should be noted that this network has been important and effective. so, madam president, you have rightly emphasized again today the links between eurojust and the european judicial network. their development goes hand in hand and this point was raised on many occasions at the last european council. i would also like to thank renate weber for her report and her important contribution. in fact, the speech she gave in toulouse on this subject was brilliant. i also thank you, madam president, for your welcome, and i know that you have done a remarkable job with all the other actors involved in eurojust. you also mentioned the treaty of lisbon, and i understand that you would have preferred to work within another institutional framework, but we must nevertheless make steady progress because this concerns all the european institutions. what you said, mr france, is that there is a need for a single framework for the enforcement of default judgments. you are right to recall that and it is a way for our justice systems to show their efficiency. mrs gebhardt, the need for cooperation between all political and legal actors is important, since the challenge of criminal cooperation in europe is to learn to work together to combat all forms of crime effectively. i know you're a demanding actor for this cooperation. i would now like to answer those of you who doubt the europe of justice and who fear that we are putting fundamental rights in question. it is true that we did not reach agreement on minimum procedural guarantees during the german presidency. so to answer you, madam member, the framework decision on default judgments provides for the right to a new trial and that is a fundamental guarantee. we are expected by the judges, prosecutors and legal and judicial professionals who work in cooperation on a daily basis, as well as by the victims who are subject to constantly changing and adapting forms of crime. we must rise to the challenge and put in place effective and useful tools. it is a europe that protects european citizens and that places the judicial area in that context. the presidency is aware that it can count on your full support for these three texts and expresses its deepest gratitude to you and to all those who have expressed their interest in these matters today.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to join in the praise and thanks of the minister, who is chairing this council of justice during the french presidency, and i would like to tell mrs kaufmann that she is right to insist on data protection, and to remind her that the draft framework decision on data protection does provide for detailed rules which will also apply to the exchange of information between the contact points of the european judicial network, but otherwise it is better to ensure that this is the case. i would also like to say to mrs weber that what is very important in the success of these texts is of course the confidence of the member states in each other and in the union agencies. mrs weber, i think you have said some very strong things about this. i think mr frança has clearly shown the value of the text he has brought forward for the speedier execution of judgments. it did so in a balance, which i would stress, by showing that there was also, as mrs rachida dati has just said, the possibility of a new trial and that there was obviously a safeguard for the rights of the defence. i would like to answer mrs buitenweg and mr dimitriou on procedural rights. i consider procedural rights to be very important for the development of the common area of freedom, security and justice. the commission was disappointed that no agreement could be reached last year on our proposal for a framework decision on procedural rights. i am now considering what initiatives might be taken in the near future in this area. i am determined to take this matter forward, perhaps we will have to come up with a new proposal on procedural rights. anyway, i want you to know that this case has my full attention. i would also like to say to mrs gebhardt, but i believe mrs dati has already answered, that this is indeed serious crime in new forms, which perhaps do not correspond to the too strict definition of organised crime. serious crime must also be a field of this judicial cooperation which we are calling for. i shall not say much more, except to repeat what jacques toubon said, namely that we must think of the interests of european citizens, of each one of us and of our fellow citizens, if we are to make this judicial cooperation ever more effective, while respecting human rights. in any case, i too would like to thank parliament for the quality of its contribution to this great debate, which will mark a very positive step in the development of this european judicial area. madam president, rachida dati, thank you for having led this european council, this council of ministers, which was, in this area too, consensual to the point of reaching these political agreements.
rapporteur. − madam president, i should like to say a few words in my capacity as a shadow rapporteur on the other two reports and to thank mrs kaufmann for the way we worked together, and mr frança for his work. there were 57 compromise amendments in his report, which says something about the level of work we put in. concerning the report on decisions rendered in absentia, probably the most sensitive aspect relates to the fact that, in some member states, when judgments are rendered in the absence of the defendant, the solution is to have a retrial, thus fully respecting the european convention on human rights (protocol no 7, article 2) and the international covenant on civil and political rights, whereas other countries recognise only the right to an appeal. unfortunately, the proposal in this report is not about harmonising current legislation in the 27 member states. although we should aim at having a european legislation in the future, for the time being we have done our best, at least by ensuring that even in the appeal the defendant enjoys the procedural guarantees as provided for by articles 5 and 6 of the european convention on human rights. i should like to conclude by saying that the good functioning of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions requires a high level of mutual confidence between the member states, and this confidence must be based on a common observance of human rights and fundamental principles.
in writing. this regulation responds to the need to secure and strengthen the european union's borders by making checks at external border crossing points more efficient. the most important aspect, however, is the establishment of common rules for the harmonisation of the visa information system. although some member states have considered that the mandatory use of the vis would only be feasible when technological development would allow reliable use of portable devices with rapid transfer and secure verification, they consider that the rapporteur's proposal to leave the consultation of the visa information system to the discretion of the border guard is a solution until the technological system allows rapid data transfer and systematic use of the data. it should also be borne in mind that adequate control at eu borders would enhance the internal security of the member states and therefore combat fraud such as organised crime and even acts of terrorism. furthermore, in addition to significantly increasing the efficiency of border controls, systematic consultation of the visa information system would also be a precondition for greater flexibility when applying for a visa.
mr president, the main problem we are facing does not concern the answer to the question of who is right and who is wrong; who is the aggressor or who is the victim; what is a sovereign right and what is a disproportionate reaction. the real problem is that we have no real means to impose a status quo ante or to exert efficient pressure on a country like russia to revise a certain policy. moreover, we cannot ask russia to observe any provision of international law which we have not already breached before. a world in which every crisis is dealt with on a sui generis basis is not a world of order, but of disorder. what we see around us today is not the beginning of a new cold war, but the end of the unipolar order. it is a geopolitical confrontation at global level which takes place within an unregulated international environment where the unilateralists are clashing. when the unipolar order is dead and the multipolar order is not yet born, anarchy and the rule of might prevail. the only reasonable thing we must do is to convene an international conference for security and cooperation, where all the global and regional players, together with the local stakeholders, should negotiate and redefine and reinvent the principles of international law in international relations, the role and powers of international organisations, the procedure for dealing with local crises and the system of security guarantees which could meet the specific opportunities, challenges and dangers of our times. meanwhile, we must accelerate the process of economic integration, political association and institutional approximation with our eastern neighbours such as ukraine and moldova. let us hope that the european union will be up to these expectations. (applause)
mr president, georgia is not a simple episode in international politics. it is the beginning of a chain reaction with important consequences. first, it indicates russia’s military comeback, which will have to be reflected in the new european security strategy under preparation. second, this apparent reconquista indicates russia’s desire to use its newly acquired energies in making good its losses from the 1990s and pay back for the accompanying humiliation, rather than willingness to contribute to the shaping of the future world. third, it highlights the weak position of europe due to increasing energy dependence on russia and the delay in ratification of the lisbon treaty. fourth, it can either restore or further damage transatlantic unity. fifth, it demonstrates that international legality needs to be strengthened both in concept and in respect. sixth, it makes clear that the black sea area needs much more attention and involvement from the eu and therefore that it requires more than a simply synergy.
in writing. as rapporteur for the black sea region, i have always stressed the major challenge that unresolved conflicts pose to regional stability, and the need for a firm and deep eu involvement in the aforementioned area. russia's actions in georgia are regrettable, dangerous in the context of regional and european stability and, by implication, unacceptable to the international community. it is therefore imperative and urgent that the eu move from promises to deeds, to show firmness both in its actions in georgia and in reviewing its relations with russia. in order to ensure stability in the black sea region, three key principles must guide eu action. first, respect for georgia's territorial integrity and international law must be at the heart of any decision. secondly, the current formula for managing conflicts in the region must be reviewed in order to accelerate and increase the possibilities of their final resolution. this implies the eu's active involvement in peacekeeping operations in georgia, but also in the management and resolution of other conflicts in the area, in particular the transnistrian conflict. finally, the eu's efforts to ensure its energy security must be stepped up to the maximum, including through the nabucco project.
in writing. the eu has no right to allow a repetition of the georgian scenario in other conflict regions. the events in georgia are a serious test of the eu's capacity to respond and engage in the frozen conflict zones of the former soviet space. it is necessary for the eu to examine the possibility of sending a european union mission of civilian observers to georgia to monitor compliance with the ceasefire agreement. the disproportionate russian response in south ossetia has had a devastating impact on the civilian population as well as on infrastructure, and constitutes a flagrant violation of international norms. this clearly indicates the need to strengthen security by the presence of multinational and impartial peacekeeping forces. the eu must also give serious thought to a more consistent process of cooperation with moldova and to the possibility of offering, under certain conditions, a much clearer european perspective for chisinau in terms of its guarantee of democratic standards. in order to strengthen good relations and avoid conflict situations, regional cooperation between the black sea littoral states must take a form of multidimensional cooperation that is institutionalised, for example by creating the union of the black sea littoral states.
in writing. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council of the european union, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, allow me to convey my condolences to both the russian and georgian citizens who lost their loved ones in this stupid conflict and to assure them of my deepest sympathy. history makes me speak to you today as a european citizen with deep roots in both russia and georgia, as a citizen who is found in european diversity and less so in european unity. we focus on the energy situation in europe, russia's "imperialist" position and georgia's nationalism and lack of diplomacy, but we forget that people and, above all, hopes have died in this conflict. i believe that more than ever we must find ourselves today in a beneficial and constructive unity, in a diplomatic and national balance to face the great challenges that await future generations. in conclusion, i ask the russian president, the president of georgia and the president of the council of the european union to take all the necessary steps to bring this regional conflict to an end as soon as possible and to relaunch a policy of cooperation which is open, balanced and above all for the benefit of the citizens. thank you, sir.
in writing. the great achievement of today's extraordinary european council meeting is the unity of the member states. we must not end up in a cold war situation again. but the russian federation must receive a unified message from the eu: it must respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, withdraw its troops from frozen conflict zones, respect the international conventions and treaties it has signed, and not base its foreign policy on its status as an energy supplier. this unity of the member states must also be reflected in the union's future actions: a common energy policy based on the creation of new transport routes using sources different from the current ones, the development of a set of policies in the black sea that is commensurate with the geo-strategic and security importance of the area, and the active involvement and promotion of new mechanisms for resolving frozen conflicts in the area. in this context, the reassessment of the neighbourhood policy is absolutely necessary. countries such as ukraine, moldova, georgia and azerbaijan need to be included in a coherent and accelerated mechanism which, if they meet the necessary requirements, could lead to their future membership of the eu.
in writing. the caucasus crisis is considered by some to have begun with president bush's 2005 speech in riga, announcing the need for a new yalta treaty. he could have said a new treaty of trianon, because the misery of many small nations and countries began not with the treaty of trianon, which ended world war ii, but with the treaty of trianon, which ended world war i. the proposal of the then american president wilson for the self-determination of the peoples remained only a dream. today, in the caucasus crisis, there is talk of the interests of the great powers, of oil, of war, but very little about the right of self-determination of the peoples there. the eu's main task in such conflict situations should be to set an example. eleven of the eu member states provide some form of minority-related autonomy. this is 41% of the eu member states. the goal: national minority policy that sets an example for all eu member states: not 41%, but 100%! the european union, with its exemplary national minority policy, can act more effectively also in the caucasus.
in writing. i think it is very important that at this delicate moment europe stands united and takes a united position on the conflict in georgia. but we must continue to provide assistance and help rebuild the affected areas in georgia, support confidence-building measures and develop regional cooperation. at the same time, europe needs to accelerate the development of european energy projects (such as nabucco and p8). even if the main focus is on georgia, considering the geographical position of azerbaijan, i think we must also take into account the need to establish an eu-azerbaijan partnership to support and continue eu energy projects. i would like to stress that the resolution of the frozen conflicts in the black sea region can only be achieved within the limits and on the basis of international law, with respect for the territorial integrity of states and their sovereignty over the entire territory, as well as with respect for the principle of the inviolability of borders. i support the council's position that the european union is ready to commit itself, including through a presence on the ground, to support all efforts towards a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict in georgia. i believe that only through dialogue and negotiation can we achieve the desired results.
we hoped that these proposals would help to reduce the social gap between european citizens. unfortunately, the package only puts us in front of another gap, that between some good intentions and the tools needed to achieve them. it also happens where there are european regulations that oblige member states to take measures. one example is the wage discrimination against women in the labour market. there's legislation here, repeated commitments, no improvement in the last eight years. but assuming that employers understand the economic benefits of fair pay and their legal obligations, the difficulties are insurmountable. there is no system of job evaluation on a non-discriminatory basis, which would constitute a common criterion for comparing different activities. without it, the principle of equal pay for work of equal value remains an illusion, as does the reduction of the sectoral gap. occupational classification systems are flawed where they exist. we already have court decisions that admit that, by relying on manual labor, they disregard the different skills needed for the job and create discrimination. the open method of coordination has commendable social objectives, but even indicators measuring some of these objectives are missing from the list of common indicators. the sad conclusion is that disinterest in gender issues is matched only by a lack of political will for effective common labour market regulations.
i would like to bring up some ideas related to the legislative package on the social european agenda. i very much appreciate the european commission's initiatives in this area and those set out in its communication 'building skills for the 21st century - european school-to-school cooperation'. beyond these initiatives, however, i would like to propose to the european commission to launch a pilot project to establish a european scholarship for children from economically and geographically disadvantaged areas. at european level, 19 million children and young people are at risk of poverty and 6 million drop out of secondary education each year. in romania, for example, young people from rural areas and those from mountainous or isolated regions have, according to a eurobarometer survey, a 5% chance of completing university studies. this is a far cry from the european union's target of 85% of young people having access to upper secondary education. member states do not have the financial means to remedy this worrying situation on their own. the european union must therefore fight by every possible means, legislation, funds, european policies, to promote opportunities and access to education for all young people.
i'm glad we're discussing the re-launch of the social package today. europe needs social progress, europe as a whole, with its older and newer members. the united europe faces the same challenges: ageing populations, job losses due to globalisation, poverty among children. i welcome, commissioner špidla, your approach to solidarity between generations. we need a new spirit here, but i also welcome the reiteration of the idea of solidarity between regions, because this is where we measure social cohesion or lack of it most faithfully.
in writing. mr president, against the background of the declarations by the conventions that 2008 will be the year of the relaunch of social europe, the so-called social package is a set of legislative initiatives whose convergence remains for the time being at the desired stage. perhaps it is time to take a more forceful and applied approach to a set of issues whose direct impact on citizens is greater than ever. we must, in fact, take it upon ourselves to ensure that all community citizens enjoy non-discriminatory living and working conditions. firstly, the resumption of discussions on a community minimum wage is not only appropriate but also necessary in this context. secondly, the same applies to the creation of uniform conditions in all eu countries for the community labour market. it is not fair that today the attitude of many eu governments towards european citizens is differentiated according to the eu country of origin. in the same context, the commission's significant initiative to improve the visibility and working methods of the eu social protection and integration strategy and to strengthen its interaction with other policies is also emerging. i have noted with satisfaction the commission's proposal for a horizontal directive on combating discrimination in areas other than employment.
in writing. the lisbon treaty recognises that the union must be based on a social market economy that provides its citizens with access to decent working and living conditions, education, health and social protection services. the union's population is ageing. if in 2007 citizens aged over 65 represented 17% of the union population, by 2030 this percentage will reach 24,6%. the latest eurostat statistics show that from 2015 the number of deaths will exceed the number of births, leading to a decrease in the number of european citizens from 521 million in 2015 to 506 million in 2060. under these conditions, immigration seems to remain the main factor in the growth of the union's population. but migration flows affect member states differently. while ireland experienced a 21.8% increase in population between 1985 and 2007, bulgaria's population declined by 14.4% over the same period. what are the solutions offered by the social package to these challenges? the citizens of the union expect firm measures to create well-paid jobs, to guarantee access to quality education, health and social protection services. the social package is the insurance policy for the future of the union and is essential for its long-term development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to reduce the decision-making time for the award of european funding through the culture 2007-2013 programme. experience of the past years has shown that the procedure for awarding funds through this mechanism is quite slow and european cultural operators may have financial problems as a result. given that cultural institutions and artists applying for these funds are generally in a delicate financial situation, i believe that any measure to facilitate access to european funds is welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs katerina batzeli for several reasons. it is well known that education and training are key priorities for the european union in achieving the lisbon objectives. the aim of the lifelong learning programme must be to maintain a flexible, self-reliant, knowledge-based society with quantitative and qualitative economic and cultural development, all in line with and in the spirit of (more) stronger social cohesion. this is why continuing training must involve all social factors. of course, like any programme of this size, it must be clear, coherent, monitored and regularly evaluated after each stage of implementation to allow for (re) adjustments, in particular as regards the priorities for implementing the measures. however, continuing training programmes should also target people in their mature years. the fact that the emphasis is often on early education, followed by the capping of the individual, means that every citizen must be stimulated and motivated to participate in a form of continuing learning that ensures potential placement in the labour market, regardless of age. this is all the more important when we also refer to statistics on the ageing of the labour force and the decline in the active population.
in writing. − europe as a whole is today facing a series of essential and dramatic changes for citizens of all ages. the importance of education and training in the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs was recognised, with the european council repeatedly stressing the role of education and training in the long-term competitiveness of the european union. today we can no longer expect people to stay in the same industry or in the same place for their entire lives. their career paths will be unpredictable and they will need a wide range of general skills to be able to adapt. to prepare them for life and society, schools need to guide them towards lifelong learning, a comprehensive european union programme that sees people able to learn at any age, and thus remain active and living members of society. that is why i voted for this report with all my heart, because we need to develop programmes for these people, particularly in the newly joined countries.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, entered into force on 1 july 1999, before the enlargement of the european union to include the republic of bulgaria and romania. the protocol to the pca was to be drawn up to allow the new member states (romania and bulgaria) to accede to this agreement. i think that parliament should have more initiatives of this kind, taking into account the partnerships signed with other countries in the region. the situation in the region makes it necessary to establish a partnership between the european union and azerbaijan this year, giving europe the opportunity to continue its energy projects. azerbaijan should receive special attention from the european union, also on the basis of the fact that it has a very balanced policy in the region and that it is willing to contribute to the implementation of the european union's energy projects.
in writing. − mutual recognition is the 'cornerstone' of judicial cooperation at european level and any clarification of the instruments for implementing this principle is welcome. the decision passed today is welcome. but i would like to draw attention to another issue, namely the way in which some member states are putting in place important instruments such as the european arrest warrant. in january 2007, the romanian authorities issued a european arrest warrant for czech citizen františek priplata, who was sentenced to eight years in prison for incitement to commit aggravated murder in the 2000 murder of a romanian trade union leader. the czech republic, on whose territory the sentenced person is located, however, applies the surrender procedure only for acts committed after 1 november 2004. as a result, eight years after the crime, the convict has not yet been extradited and has not begun to serve his sentence. i believe that member states which agree to apply judicial cooperation instruments in this way should seriously consider whether to maintain these reservations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the armando frança report on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to confiscation orders and the 2008 framework decision. /.../jha on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters imposing custodial sentences or measures for the purpose of their enforcement in the european union. there are increasing cases of dangerous criminals taking advantage of freedom of movement and the abolition of borders within the european union to avoid prosecution. i support this report unconditionally because it provides for a uniform regulation on 'in absentia' sentences, a regulation which is particularly necessary to avoid the possible blockage of the judicial system by those who flee justice from one country to another in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the brejc report today because the use of the vis (visa information system) is of fundamental importance for the effectiveness of external border controls. the visa information system should be systematically consulted by border police officers for any visa holder in order to ensure border security. the enlargement of the schengen area has removed barriers within the european union. third-country nationals are still only checked once at the entrance. 50% of illegal immigrants enter the eu legally, but overstay because there is no visa control system. we want europe to be safer, but at the same time welcoming to those who come for tourism or business. the amendment voted in the european parliament today is in favour of eu citizens and third country nationals who do not need a visa, as it would considerably reduce congestion at land border crossing points.
in writing. − asylum laws and practices still differ between member states, and asylum seekers are treated differently from one country to another. unless a satisfactory and uniform level of protection is achieved throughout the european union, the dublin system will always produce unsatisfactory results, both technically and humanly, and asylum seekers will continue to have good reasons to address their application to a particular member state in order to benefit from the most favourable decisions at national level. the high number of multiple applications and the low number of transfers carried out indicate weaknesses in the dublin system and the need to create a common european asylum system. the implementation of the dublin regulation may result in unequal distribution of responsibility for persons seeking protection to the detriment of member states that are particularly exposed to migratory flows solely because of their geographical location. the commission's assessment shows that in 2005, the 13 member states at the external borders of the union faced increasing challenges as a result of the application of the dublin system, so that the first country of entry criterion provided for by the dublin system put the member states at the external borders in a very difficult situation.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the imco committee. - madam president, honourable members, commissioner, honourable ministers, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs involved in the work on the telecom package. i think mrs trautmann's report is a balanced position and i support the compromise amendments proposed. i am also pleased that certain amendments have been accepted, in particular those relating to spectrum harmonisation and certain measures relating to global telecommunications services. european economic growth and consumer welfare depend on a dynamic and competitive telecommunications sector. competitive markets have more broadband available, new entrants have brought increased speeds and innovative services. the telecoms framework directive must be geared towards increased investment; next generation networks must also be considered and consumer choices must be more diversified, leading to lower costs and better services for consumers. in conclusion, i would like to express my confidence in the changes we want to bring to the telecom package, which will benefit consumers by offering them a wider range, lower costs and more diversified services.
the development of the information society is based on electronic communications networks and services. the switchover from analogue to digital television by 2012 will free up a significant spectrum at european level, thus allowing the development of new technologies and innovative solutions that will boost european competitiveness in this sector. in order to fully benefit from the digital dividend in europe, parliament supports a common, flexible and balanced approach to its use, allowing broadcasters to continue and expand their services and electronic communications operators to use this resource to provide new services with important social and economic uses, and stresses that the digital dividend should be allocated in accordance with the principle of technological neutrality. the use of the digital dividend can help to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy by providing enhanced interoperable social services such as e-government, e-health, e-learning, especially for those living in disadvantaged, isolated or rural areas. while recognising the right of member states to determine the use of the digital dividend, we argue that a coordinated approach at community level significantly improves the value of the digital dividend and is the most effective way to avoid harmful interference between member states and between member states and third countries, and to ensure that spectrum users benefit from all the benefits of the internal market. consumer confidence in information society services depends on the quality of electronic communications services, their security and the protection of personal data. it is essential that national regulatory authorities ensure that all providers of electronic communications services are consulted before adopting specific measures in the field of security and integrity of electronic communications networks. i also believe that member states should put in place measures to promote the creation of a market for widely accessible products and services that incorporate facilities for disabled users.
president of the council. - madam president, i thank you for allowing me to speak now and i would like to apologize for having to return to paris afterwards. my colleague luc chatel will be answering many of the questions that have been asked. i shall merely say a few words about mr harbour's comments on the lack of debate on the scope of universal service. i would first like to express my agreement with the rapporteur on what he said, that access to broadband is a major issue for our societies, whether it is access to knowledge or essential services. as mr harbour has said, broadband access is not part of the current scope of universal service. the french presidency simply wants to open the debate on how to guarantee access to broadband throughout europe. when listening to the various member states, it is clear that different scenarios can be envisaged. first, the inclusion of broadband in the universal service directive, then the freedom to allow only those member states which so wish to include broadband access in their universal service, and finally an intermediate position, which would be to say that the inclusion of broadband in the scope of the universal service becomes mandatory in the member states when broadband has reached sufficient maturity. so we have the opportunity, together, under the french presidency, to open this debate and try to bring the views closer together, which is what the commission is also trying to do. i would just like to add a word to mrs harms' attention, to say that we are not opposed to the development of the internet and the protection of copyright. in the age of convergence, we must develop containers, networks and content, and therefore foster creativity and authorship. france, as you have recalled, is committed to copyright but the french presidency does not seek to impose the example, which we will promote in france, of prevention and graduated response, what we call the creation and internet law. finally, we are very aware, as you said, of the need to protect both privacy and personal data. we do not see any contradiction between this and other concerns.
mr president, the telecom package is an important step forward in modernising and harmonising telecommunications in europe. i worked on the citizens’ rights directive and, together with the rapporteur, mr harbour, we did a lot of work and we reached consensus on many issues. this directive will ensure better protection of consumer rights in electronic communications. number portability, and privacy protection and security in telecommunications are other examples of improvements brought by this directive. we had a very delicate discussion on network neutrality. my opinion is that extreme network neutrality, as we experienced in some amendments, will make networks more congested, slower, less efficient and more expensive. network management is necessary to run efficient and intelligent networks and to maximise the overall user experience and value. i am very satisfied that we agreed on amendments regarding the emergency number 112 and, after the directive has been adopted, member states will make further efforts to inform and educate the public on the use of 112. the 112 number will be made accessible from the entire eu territory and member states will have to ensure the implementation of caller location. in addition, access to emergency services through 112 may be blocked in case of repeated misuse by the user and 112 will be more accessible to people with disabilities. i also hope that the amendment regarding the establishment of an eu-wide early warning system will be adopted. this amendment does not require an agency in brussels to be set up but the definition of common standards about the warning system to be done jointly by the relevant authorities of the member states. of course, the warning would be launched at the local level, but on the basis of common standards that would ensure that all potentially affected citizens of the eu could get and understand this message and act in a way that will save their lives. i am very sure that the telecom package will support the efforts of companies in improving their performance and investment in new technologies and at the same time will consolidate the consumer rights of european citizens.
the report under discussion provides an opportunity to stimulate, by exploiting the digital dividend, the large-scale use of broadband technologies in rural, isolated or disadvantaged areas, given that there are still many localities where digital technology is completely lacking or where access to digital services is not possible due to a lack of infrastructure. we support the acceleration of the development by lagging member states, such as romania, of national strategies on the digital dividend, which will put into practice measures that will allow citizens to have faster and easier access to interoperable social services, in particular those that allow access to education, vocational training and health systems. we are sounding the alarm about the care that must be taken to ensure the greatest possible transparency in the reallocation of frequency allocations and investments in the new generation of infrastructure, so that all the countries of the european union have access to them.
my dear colleagues, there are some things that are talked about a lot but not done. in the debate on the social package, we spoke about the lack of instruments to apply the principle of equal pay for work of equal value and thus to reduce the pay gap between women and men. without them, commitments are just words, and legislation is useless. there are also issues that are little or nothing done about, but not even talked about. the 100,000 women who are trafficked every year are not talked about much, except here, late at night; probably because they are commodities, not citizens. most are trafficked for prostitution. we call for stronger integrated action against trafficking networks, but also concerted measures to discourage demand for prostitution. without demand, traffic loses its raison d'être. the situation of women who work as housekeepers and domestic workers is not mentioned; they are invisible. with no social rights or minimal rights, they face the same risk of abuse as women in their own families, including the risk of exploitation. for those working in other countries, the lack of political rights is added to the fragility of the social and economic situation. proper regulation of their situation is not just a matter of justice now, it would prevent the high rate of poverty among older women in the future. nor can you talk about women in the government of my country, because they don't exist. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the time has come to move from statements about what should be done to doing what is right.
we are talking about the need to combat violence against women, to encourage women's participation in civic life and an aspect that is part of the work of the committee on culture - the discrepancies between the level of education of women and men. while women are better educated than men, the gender pay gap in the labour market continues to be widespread. i myself, as a member of the committee on culture and education, tabled an amendment to the opinion drawn up by cult on this report. i believe it is essential to remove from the media images that depict women in degrading poses, given the impact that the mass media have on public perceptions and attitudes. the european union's policy on gender equality is still a topical issue in western society.
mr president, equality between women and men must be a basic principle of european society. the latest eurobarometer survey indicates that rural women are not involved in decision-making in their communities, do not have a stable job and most of them only take on domestic responsibilities, reaching 98% in some areas. however, over 50% of women want access to the european labour market and a qualification that will help them to get a job in public administration, agriculture, social welfare or education. a significant percentage also want to take advantage of the facilities that exist at european level to start a business. i therefore believe that initiatives by rural women to become actively involved in society, to continuously improve themselves and to participate in the economic development of their area should be supported. eliminating discrimination requires a combined european effort. programmes such as the european social fund and progress in partnership with governments and local authorities need to allocate even more funds to support rural women.
in writing. romania, although in terms of the legislative framework and the number of government initiatives and programmes aimed at reducing gender inequality is among the good students of the european union, suffers from deficiencies in several important aspects that accentuate and perpetuate inequality between women and men. as regards access to management positions for women, romania is among the last places in europe. of the 331 members of the parliament, only 37 are women, just over 11% of the total. the percentage of women in local government in romania is even lower. sweden has almost as many women as men in parliament. in romania, a third of women work part-time, compared with only 7.7% of men, for an average wage 15% below that of men. this is closely related to the persistence of gender stereotypes that make most of the housework fall to women. gender inequality and related prejudices are unfortunately present not only in the family but in the educational framework of romanians themselves. studies show that school activities in romania tend to form gender-differentiated mindsets, as do socioeconomic orientation activities organized by teachers. i therefore stress the importance of including in the report points on the importance of education in eliminating gender inequality.
in writing. i believe that the persistence of discrimination between the sexes is primarily due to outdated mindsets still present in modern societies: the man provides for the family financially, and the woman takes care of her social needs. these attitudes are found in all states, but especially in the underprivileged areas. with proper education, this phenomenon can be eliminated. in this context, i think it is also necessary to take into account the fact that the evolution of present-day society as a whole has led to an increasing involvement of women in working life, with their status in society improving markedly. however, problems may arise at the family level, especially with regard to the care, involvement and education of children. lack of time, busy work schedules, the glamour of strangers, lead to diminished parental control over children during the holidays, as well as between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. during the school activity. therefore, solutions must be identified to eliminate the concern about what the child is doing while the parent is at work by developing activities within or outside schools that provide cover for the lack of parental supervision. basically, to extend the school by school method, which becomes a useful project for the family, the community, the country, europe.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and stress the importance of the contents of this report for achieving the objectives of economic growth in the context of the lisbon strategy. both the european union and the member states must provide a better model for society. despite the progress that has been made, inequality between women and men persists and that is why we must act. i want to draw attention to a problem that so many women face every day and for which so few get a favorable verdict, and i'm talking about sexual harassment. according to a national study in romania, 90 percent of sexual harassment victims were women, and 1 in 9 people in urban areas experienced sexual harassment. in over 55% of cases, the abuser was the subject's professional boss. i believe that there is a need to re-evaluate policies and actions in this area with a view to raising living and working standards for women, and that member states must urgently implement community legislation aimed at equal treatment between women and men in the labour market, including with regard to sexual harassment.
in writing. it is time to break down stereotypes and take decisive action to give women and men real equal opportunities. progress has been made over the past decade in increasing the representation of women in european top politics, but it is still insufficient. in contrast, the remuneration discrepancies have remained relatively constant over the past years. european societies are still subject to exclusion and firm decisions, much bolder, and a much more effective media campaign are needed. the overall participation of women in decision-making is also clearly distorted in romania, the only country where not a single woman holds a ministerial post, and women only occupy 9% of the seats in parliament. romanian society has a duty to fight mentalities, gender discrimination in all its everyday forms. i believe in the positive effects of using electoral quotas for women's representation. examples of good practice are found in the nordic countries, but not only. whether it is an electoral system based on proportional representation by guaranteeing gender parity of candidates, but also equal visibility in the media (belgium) or distribution quotas established by law (finland, sweden, spain, france), i believe that in romania the situation of women who want such involvement in political, economic and social life can be greatly improved.
i would like to propose some practical ways in which we can tackle the harmful influence of advertising on gender equality in europe. from the point of view of european legislation in this area, a key point is the principle of country of origin. this is also the case with regard to advertising, so that a production accepted by a national audiovisual council in one member state must be accepted for broadcasting in all the others. we have recently seen clear examples of gender discrimination promoted by advertising productions that could not be stopped from being broadcast in the european union states. i therefore believe that derogations from the country of origin principle should be introduced where it is found that the european pact for gender equality has been breached by offensive media productions. since this is an area of community competence, namely trade in audiovisual services, i believe that fines should be imposed by the european commission on producers who promote discriminatory images through advertising.
in writing. – even if strict conditions are respected and efsa concludes that cloned meat is equivalent to conventional meat, animal cloning for food supply is, to many people, a risky and morally unacceptable practice. the current level of suffering and health problems in cloned animals reinforces that claim. if conventional methods work, then why should we encourage a technique that causes so many animals to suffer and die? it neither improves breeding, nor food safety nor the security of provision. it clearly provides no obvious benefit to the consumer. furthermore, european consumers have, on several occasions, expressed their wish not to have food products from clones or the offspring thereof on their table. it is a legitimate call and sends a clear signal, so why are we even considering cloning for food supply in the first place? people want to have control over what they eat and they are concerned that cloning will ultimately be forced on them. if we do not wish to further alienate the public from the european project, i believe we had better listen to their will and enforce it. therefore, i call for no cloning of animals for food supply.
madam president, this proposal for a regulation, together with the other two, the regulation on detergents and the decision to amend the legislation downstream, represents the harmonisation of european legislation with that of the world in the field of classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals. their implementation will have beneficial effects on public health, environmental protection and the development of a safe chemical industry and trade, and consumer information is very important. the period for ghs implementation has to be linked to the application of reach to producers, some 27 000 in the european union, 95% of whom are smes, and to the development of trade with non-eu states, i.e. 25% of the european union's export volume. i ask the commission not to abandon the proposal to apply the new regulation throughout the product life cycle, including when the product becomes waste. i congratulate the reporter on her work.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. i think we can say today that this step has brought to an end the intensive legislative work which has been carried out for many years in relation to the chemical industry and the production and use of chemicals in europe. i would also like to make this very clear, in view of the beautiful image mrs breyer used: who is sitting in the locomotive and who is sitting in the brake box? there is no doubt about it: the european union is the world's engine when it comes to chemical legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission therefore strongly believes that we need a few years now in the context of horizontal legislation for this sector to implement all that we have already decided and that we should not have big plans right away. the reach legislation provides for review periods for good reasons and we should really observe strictly the review periods decided by the legislator. this means that the commission will always present its reports and proposals in good time. but as far as large horizontal initiatives are concerned, i would say again that the commission has no intention of making any further proposals in the foreseeable future. i can also reassure you about the global effectiveness of this system. all the information at my disposal shows that, in fact, all the parties concerned are working intensively worldwide to implement the system decided upon by the united nations. we are clearly ahead in terms of actual implementation. i think that a number of important countries in the world are waiting for what happened here today, because they want to be guided in their own legislation, in their own implementation, by what we do in the european union. i expect that we will now see the processes being completed very quickly in a number of countries. mr schwab has raised a very interesting question, namely whether we should have transitional periods for the conservation limits in annex 6, which have been abolished as part of the compromise between the legislators. i can only say that the commission has no problem with transitional periods. i personally think that they are absolutely necessary and appropriate. what is not in the law is not an accident, it is part of the overall compromise, and in all the circumstances i do not think it would have been right for the commission to scuttle the compromise over this question of transitional periods for a few products. but we will see to it that the will of the legislator is realised in an appropriate form. i share the concerns of those who have expressed concern about animal testing. i very much hope that this legislation will not lead to an increase in animal testing. it is important that in any case animal testing on primates is prohibited in the context of this legislation. i would like to make it clear once again that the policy of this commission will be to use all its energy to ensure that animal testing is reduced as far as possible. i think that this means, first and foremost, that we must continue to intensify our efforts to find acceptable alternative methods to animal testing. i am on the side of any of you who have concerns in this direction. let me conclude by saying that i believe we have a piece of legislation here that is a win-win for all concerned. i am very grateful to all those who have contributed to this.
in writing. the proposal for a decision implementing the globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals (ghs) is an important step in protecting the environment, consumers who will have more choice and companies looking to enter the international market. harmonised use of labels and uniform description of the hazards of chemicals will increase consumer confidence in such products, while facilitating international trade, as the industry will be able to apply the same labels to all regions where it exports. moreover, the uniform system of classification of substances is an essential factor in guaranteeing the free movement of goods within the internal market. however, we need to ensure that this regulation does not increase the number of tests carried out on vertebrate animals for the purpose of harmonising the classification criteria, but that these tests are only carried out where there are no alternative solutions that guarantee the same level of quality. the global classification system should allow the use of methods that do not involve animal testing, even if their validation involves a lengthy and costly bureaucratic process. since animal testing has never been officially validated, the authentication of alternative tests seems a burden, but research in this area should be encouraged.
in the transport sector, sustained efforts should be made to introduce alternative fuel vehicles on the market that contribute to a significant improvement in urban air quality. common standards for the approval of hydrogen engines are necessary to ensure the safe use of hydrogen for the propulsion of vehicles. the use of hydrogen as a fuel, whether as fuel cells or as internal combustion engines, does not generate carbon emissions or greenhouse gases. type-approval of hydrogen-based vehicles is based on the specification and compliance with the technical requirements of hydrogen-based components. given the characteristics of hydrogen, the vehicles require specific treatment by the rescue services. i would stress the need for member states to invest in the infrastructure necessary for the storage and distribution of alternative fuels, without which the number of less polluting vehicles cannot increase significantly.
in writing. − chemicals are manufactured and traded globally and their risk is the same all over the world. substances that are considered dangerous in one country may have a different regimen in another. there should be no different description between countries for the same product. in addition to the need for information, the ghs (global harmonised system) has as its main objective the protection of consumers. new legislation on the classification, packaging and labelling of substances and mixtures will provide greater protection for health and the environment. i think we've come to compromises that contain good consumer health solutions. professional chemical users and consumers worldwide can benefit from global harmonisation. the implementation of this report will increase the protection of people using these dangerous substances, make businesses more efficient and reduce the number of accidents. the use of these dangerous products will be safer and will provide users with correct, complete and accurate information, providing good consumer protection.
in writing. − the construction of hydrogen-based vehicle engines is a guarantee of the development of environmentally friendly transport in the future and the protection of public health. in order to achieve the environmental benefits associated with the use of hydrogen-based vehicles, hydrogen must be produced in a sustainable way, improving noise and air quality levels in advance. this regulation will ensure that hydrogen-based systems are as safe as conventional propulsion technologies, and will help to stimulate the industry to build these types of vehicles. it is necessary to create an appropriate framework to accelerate the introduction of vehicles with innovative propulsion technologies on the market so that the transport industry can make a significant contribution to a cleaner and safer future. in view of the global problems caused by climate change and the lack of energy sources, the promotion of hydrogen-powered vehicles must be done internationally, especially in developing countries, but also in the united states, to ensure better protection of the environment against global warming. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which is a first step towards a cleaner europe.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of amendment 2 because i consider it inadmissible that borders could be changed under the pretext of 'care' for the minorities in neighbouring countries. i also voted for mentioning that georgia was promised nato membership at the bucharest summit and that she is on right track for the following reasons: a. it is true: georgia was assured that she would become a nato member and that is officially inscribed in the final communiqué of the bucharest nato summit,b. at least one important european leader has said - in the context of the recent war with russia - that georgia's vocation for nato would be fulfilled,c. the eu is bound to guarantee georgia's security, independence and territorial integrity by virtue of the partnership agreement concluded by the eu with georgia within the european neighbourhood policy and since it cannot do it - because it is not structured for that - it means that the only institution which can do so is nato, of which the majority of the eu countries are also members.
in writing. − the extraordinary european council of september 1 demonstrated and affirmed the unity of the eu, which represents progress compared to 2003, when the situation in iraq created questions regarding eu unity. europe must continue to express its solidarity and determination concerning russian compliance with international laws and standards. the resolution that we voted for today emphasises that the partnership between europe and russia must be based on mutual respect for the fundamental rules of european cooperation. russia continues to violate certain conditions of the cease-fire agreements, behaviour that must be met with unified political and economic pressure to encourage russia to completely withdraw all troops from georgian territory and reduce their military presence in south ossetia and abkhazia. it is critical that immediate action is taken to ensure the continued delivery of assistance to displaced victims of this conflict. these troubling events perpetrated by russia should be met with unified european resolve. in order to protect against future challenges of this nature, europe must find alternative energy sources and strengthen the european security and defence policy as set out in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − as shadow rapporteur for the pse group in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of this report, considering it particularly important in terms of proposals to ensure equal treatment between women and men in the labour market. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of paragraph 42 of the report, which calls on the commission and the member states to establish a set of qualitative and quantitative indicators, as well as gender-based statistics, that are reliable, comparable and available in a timely manner for use in monitoring the implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth and employment. as one of the determining factors in increasing employment is the reconciliation of work and family life, i would also like to mention paragraph 34 which calls on the commission to collect and disseminate best practice on work-life balance.
in writing. - i have decided that abstention is the position which best expresses the heterogeneous content of the report. to put it more bluntly, we're discussing a real problem that has been addressed, in my opinion, in inadequate terms. it is not enough to say that 'gender stereotypes must be eliminated'. i do not think that the issue is to 'reward the media and advertising professionals for respecting gender equality', as some articles in the report call for (article 9, 27), but rather to develop precise regulations and programmes at community level to make these rewards unnecessary. because the various forms of advertising that mark our daily lives are realities with a profound and immediate socio-cultural impact, this activity needs a unified and coherent legislative framework. for this reason, a descriptive set of references to such a current and important issue (such as the britt-svensson report) has failed to make a convincing case and to win a favourable vote, failing to respond in a clear and applied formula to the concrete solutions envisaged.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it captures very well the timing of the intervention to lessen the negative influence of marketing and advertising on equality between men and women, namely: the early years of children's socialisation. the formation of stereotypes and prejudices from an early age is a decisive contributor to gender discrimination, with a direct effect in accentuating inequalities between women and men throughout life. the information explosion can hardly be prevented among children, with a study conducted earlier this year in romania highlighting that the biggest consumers of advertising are children aged six. i welcome the idea of setting up a dedicated gender equality department within the national media monitoring bodies in the member states, but it is urgent that they have a dual role: regular and systematic monitoring of gender-related images in the media, but also coercive control over the media. without coercion, our initiatives will prove to be useless.
in writing. - my vote 'for' is based on doctrinal and practical considerations. first, any kind of cloning, whether of humans or animals, is contrary to the christian principle and doctrine on which the doctrine of the european people's party is based. ethically and scientifically, there are still many controversial issues that should be fully debated and clarified. as far as practical matters are concerned, we cannot yet accurately quantify the effects of cloning. in addition, there is the problem of the lack of capacity to control access and to track these animal products once they enter the commercial system. that's why i think the right decision at this point is to ban animal cloning for food production.
president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing our appreciation for the work done by the parliamentary committees, and in particular by mrs flautre, as chairman of the subcommittee on human rights. this is an important work, because, first of all, the relationship between the use of restrictive measures and human rights is a topical subject which, until recently, has been the focus of the attention of the various actors on the international scene. i think it is worth recalling that, in the context of the common foreign and security policy, one of the objectives of restrictive measures remains the foundation of democracy and the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, it is legitimate to ask ourselves, as we do, and as you have done in your report, what the impact of such measures may be on the fundamental rights of the individuals subject to them. that is why, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has drawn up a concept paper on restrictive measures entitled 'basic principles on the use of restrictive measures' in which it recalls the attention paid, i quote, 'to full respect for human rights and the rule of law and to full compliance with our obligations under international law'. this commitment is of course still at the heart of our priorities. it should also be borne in mind that the use of restrictive measures is not limited to human rights policy. it is a tool like any other of the common foreign and security policy and there are other objectives besides the defence of human rights, which concern the maintenance of peace and the strengthening of international security, the safeguarding of the fundamental interests and the strengthening of the security of the union or, quite simply, the promotion of international cooperation. sanctions must therefore be part of - as you have stressed - a comprehensive and integrated approach by a country, which includes political dialogue, incentive measures, conditionality and other external policy instruments in parallel, and in this respect i am pleased that the report is in line with the council's view that all the instruments at its disposal, including restrictive measures, should be used flexibly. you will understand that it is not easy to make a comparative analysis by limiting oneself to the different sanctions regimes and using the human rights situation in each country as the sole criterion, and it is important not to take a regime of restrictive measures out of its context, just as when these measures are implemented, it is not, of course, necessary to assume that everything is automatic in this implementation. as regards the implementation of restrictive measures in the fight against terrorism, it is primarily aimed at preventing acts of terrorism, in particular anything that may contribute to the financing of such acts. the lists are known, public, as are the measures they entail. one of the conditions for the sustainability of this system is based on two pillars: the first is that these systems must be credible, which implies that the greatest attention should be paid to updating these lists so that they can reflect reality. the second principle is respect for the rule of law, and therefore for a number of fundamental principles: transparency of procedures, possibilities of appeal and rights of the defence. in this debate, i am sorry to be a little long but it is the current events that are prompting me to do so we must of course take note of the judgment of the court of justice which was delivered this morning and which annuls, with effect from 3 december next, the effects of a community regulation freezing the assets of two applicants pursuant to a security council resolution because they were not able to know the reasons for which they were included on the terrorist lists. what we note is that the court does not forbid the council from taking further measures to freeze funds provided that the persons concerned can have information as to why they are affected by such measures, either at the time when the measure is decided or at least as soon as possible after the decision. we also note that the court's judgment states that the primacy of un security council resolutions in international law is not in question and that it is on this basis that the rules of procedure will be amended by 3 december, after your assembly has been informed. the report by mrs flautre deals more specifically with the mechanism for evaluating sanctions, asking the council to carry out an evaluation or impact study of the union's policy in this area. i would like to stress the council's willingness to do so, and in particular to ensure that experience can be exchanged and that national best practices can be developed in the application of restrictive measures. the experience gained in designing and implementing measures in different contexts continually feeds into every political debate we have in the council, and the council also conducts in-depth discussions on the relevance, nature and anticipated effectiveness of possible sanctions, drawing on the reports drawn up by the heads of mission of the european union and on the observations communicated by the member states. so, on the nature of sanctions, we welcome the convergence of views with the report and in particular the fact that targeted sanctions are favoured over general sanctions, and we have noted that the report calls on the council and the commission to follow a mixed approach - which could be summed up as the carrot and stick approach - which indeed seems to us to be the one that should be adopted. we also agree with the report's analysis of the importance of international cooperation, which is the basis of credibility. we attach particular priority to the work carried out within the framework of the united nations. we are ensuring, within the council, that, on the basis of the un resolutions and the measures decided in the security council, there is alignment with the countries which are closest to the european union. we are also ensuring that the issue of sanctions is also raised in the political dialogue meetings and human rights consultations we have with a number of target countries. finally, in this draft report, the european parliament expresses its wish to be involved at all stages of the process leading to the design, implementation and monitoring of restrictive measures. the council is fully aware of this and welcomes the very keen interest of the european parliament in the union's policy in this area. the council is therefore particularly concerned to ensure that your assembly is kept regularly informed of developments in this field. i would like to end by welcoming the european parliament's commitment in this area and encourage it to make use of all its parliamentary contacts with third countries to improve understanding of the european union's sanctions regime and to examine the possibilities for coordinated action to promote human rights. for all these reasons i welcome the report just presented by mrs flautre.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the commission takes note with interest of the report on the application of sanctions and the evaluation of sanctions in the field of human rights. sanctions are one of the effective instruments available to the european union to promote respect for human rights in third countries and have been applied to this end in belarus, china, myanmar, uzbekistan, the former yugoslavia and zimbabwe, to name a few important cases. the commission welcomes the holding of this debate on the implementation and evaluation of this important instrument of the common foreign and security policy. as the president said, whilst recognising that this policy pursues several objectives, any decision to apply sanctions in the framework of the cfsp must be taken after evaluating and weighing up several objective interests. that is why an assessment of the coherence of sanctions policy must be carried out, not only in the light of the human rights records of third countries, but also taking into account the other objectives and criteria of the cfsp. the systematic and unilateral, almost automatic, application of sanctions against all countries whose policies do not fully respect human rights does not seem desirable. the european union should take into account the impact on relations with the countries targeted by sanctions, which are economic as well as political in nature. however, it is not only the impact on our diplomatic relations that must be taken into account, but also the impact on the international activities of our economic operators. in general, sanctions should be targeted and targeted only at the leaders of the country concerned, while sparing the populations who are already suffering from the violation of human rights. moreover, when sanctions are decided, it should also be decided on the basis of which criteria they can be lifted, an 'exit strategy' while reserving a minimum of flexibility for cases where the third countries concerned meet most but not all of the criteria. i would also like to stress that sanctions are not intended to replace judicial proceedings against those responsible for human rights violations. these crimes are the responsibility of the courts and tribunals, including the international criminal court. on the other hand, sanctions are intended to bring about a change in the policies of a third country, for example, to promote respect for human rights in the legal system of the country concerned. they therefore have a progressive objective and can be repealed as the policies of the country concerned change. the european union, for example, has applied sanctions in support of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. we believe it is important to promote respect for human rights in third countries and we are also continuously monitoring the application of human rights in third countries. in each case, the most naturally effective of all the possible instruments should be identified. we therefore believe that a thorough reflection on the application of sanctions in order to promote policies which respect human rights is a useful policy, and i would like to thank you, madam rapporteur, for taking the initiative.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on this report, i would like to state that the european union should use this remarkable tool of external policy with wisdom and prudence. no matter what the circumstances or the type of sanctions applied, there is always the potential of negative side effects that could generate regrettable situations. i strongly believe that sanctions should apply only when diplomatic persuasion has failed, and, in order to be efficient, the eu must always have a comprehensive assessment of the situation, a coherent strategy and an accurate evaluation of the results. to uphold credibility and avoid the accusation of double standards, the eu has to be able to justify the adoption or non-adoption of sanctions based primarily on human rights grounds and arguments of effectiveness. i think it is crucial that, by imposing sanctions, the european union reveals its strengths and not its weaknesses.
i hope that this report will play an important role in strengthening european policy on the imposition of community sanctions. i think it is essential that in future there should be greater cohesion between member states, both in the decision-making process on sanctions and in their actual implementation. if we want the european union to be a strong and respected presence on the international stage and to have the greatest possible impact from its actions, including sanctions, it is essential that we show as much solidarity as possible and avoid using different units of measurement. it is essential that sanctions affect the population of the states whose political regions are subject to sanctions to a minimum extent. let us not make those peoples suffer twice as long as they are already victims of oppressive regimes or corrupt governments. i am glad that the commissioner has also pointed this out. last but not least, i would like to raise the issue of the appropriateness of sanctions. we have just had a concrete case at the beginning of this week: the georgian crisis and the position of the 27 member states vis-à-vis russia. the results of monday's summit are the subject of heated debate precisely because of the discrepancy between the decided, almost vehement tone of the attitude expressed and the reluctance to resort to sanctions. i believe that as long as things can be rectified and dialogue can prevent the situation from deteriorating, sanctions should remain a measure of last resort.
sanctions are one of the instruments that the union can use to implement its human rights policy. however, as the rapporteur has also noted, the lack of an impact study on the sanctions policy of the european union makes it extremely difficult to measure the effects and effectiveness of this policy on the ground and therefore indicates a lack of transparency, coherence and even legitimacy of the community sanctions. as long as the european union does not speak with one voice in its common security policy, it is very difficult for us to impose effective and systematic community sanctions. it is regrettable that the union and the member states have not made systematic use of sanctions, and i therefore believe, mr president, that a coherent strategy for the policy of applying sanctions, with a view to respecting human rights, is needed, a strategy which takes account of the agreements and clauses already signed, avoiding double standards and thus contributing to increasing the credibility of the union. i congratulate mrs flautre on this report.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not repeat what the commissioner said with great emotion, while fully sharing her convictions in the face of the scandal in which we find ourselves. to this end, the council has developed an action programme. it is true that he is late, but this programme is ambitious, i do not want to go back to it. the presidency, for its part, will give priority, to be very clear, to the promotion and defence of women's rights. our agenda includes the development of guidelines to combat violence against women, which will serve as the european union's action in international forums and, later this month, at the high-level meetings at the united nations on africa's development needs under the millennium development goals. we also have the initiative on women and armed conflict, which aims to take better account of the particular situation of women where the european union is implementing external security and defence policies, taking the initiative, as the presidency, of a new resolution at the un general assembly with the netherlands on violence against women. and since we have been talking about the national situation, and i am here representing the council, i say that all member states are welcome to join this resolution in the united nations. finally, in december 2008, there will be a forum of non-governmental organisations on these women's situations. as regards maternal health and all that you have said, i can only share the commitment and indignation of those who have spoken, particularly with regard to the links with the hiv virus, by stating that the union will finance the global fund against aids with eur 91 million in 2007, as the first donor to the fund for this year. as regards the remarks of mrs kinnock, who, as a committed european, cannot confuse the presidency of the council with a national state, or at that moment i no longer recognize it, i mean that as far as the budgetary amounts of the european union are concerned, those amounts will increase in 2008 as far as the state i know best is concerned. to be precise, the share allocated to health increased between 2006 and 2008, from eur 820 million to eur 930 million. but i don't think this is the place to play the same games between us every time. more personally, and on the background after listening to your debate, i must say that the presidency will take very carefully into account the proposal which mrs buitenweg has put to me. that, for the presidency, the fight against poverty goes hand in hand with the improvement of the status of women and with respect for their rights everywhere. that intervention should begin when women's health is systematically at stake and that the necessary means must be provided, all the necessary means, under legal and safe conditions, to put an end to this scandal and that, from this point of view, we must not renounce any of these means, whatever our convictions. we must move forward to put an end to the scandal of women's situation, especially in the poorest countries. from this point of view, there should be an agreement between us, i repeat, whatever our convictions. the presidency is determined to do so, particularly in africa, and to use all the means at its disposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have heard some very important statements. this is an emotional question on which there are different points of views. i believe we should go back to the programme of action of the international conference on population and development, held in cairo, which clearly indicates respect for national legal frameworks. we in any case reject coercive abortion, forced sterilisation, infanticide and other human rights abuses, which are clearly not in line with that policy. at the same time, it is also very important to understand that childbirth is not without its complications. as mrs buitenweg said, it is a luxury in our countries, but the luxury is not there in other countries. the principle of voluntary choice should therefore guide this programme of action, which seeks to provide universal access to a full range of safe and reliable family-planning methods – which, of course, is the priority – and to reproductive health services which are not against the law. the aim should be to assist individuals and couples in making their own choices and achieving their reproductive goals, giving them the full opportunity to exercise the right to have children by their own choice. that is what we have to achieve. in no case will abortion be promoted as a method of family planning. governments are committed to dealing with the health impact of unsafe abortions as a public health concern – because they happen and we have heard how many are women are dying from them – and to reducing the recourse to abortion through improved family planning services. when abortion is not against the law, it should be safe and part of a comprehensive reproductive health service. that is most important. on the other hand, it is true that health-care systems should be better, as they are weak, and we are now looking at strengthening those systems by training more health-care personnel and through a system of health insurance, which is an initiative of the french presidency. it is true that much money has gone, for instance, into combating hiv/aids in recent years, but unfortunately ever more women are becoming hiv/aids-infected in africa: one out of four girls aged between 16 and 24 are now hiv positive. that is awful. the commission is aware of this, and is encouraging initiatives through the global fund to be more geared to women and to be more gender sensitive. finally, on the question of migration, this could go in the wrong direction. this so-called ‘brain drain’ is one of the issues that will have to be tackled when addressing migration as a whole. it has both positive and negative sides and we have to find the right balance.
in writing. the eu has committed to meeting the millennium development goals, including reducing the maternal mortality rate by 75% by 2015. although eu countries are on the right track overall, progress is slowest in the area of maternal health. the european commission's initiatives to allocate funds to health systems reform to improve the quality of and access to pre- and postnatal services, support research in reproductive medicine and medical staff training were welcomed in order to achieve objective 5. the charter for strengthening sanitary systems adopted in tallinn in june 2008 is also an important step forward. however, there are developed countries like france, the united kingdom, and the netherlands with very low mortality rates, for which the 75% reduction by 2015 seems difficult, because the rate of progress is slower than in countries with higher maternal mortality rates. there are also still disparities in the progress made in eu countries and even in the regions of different countries. achieving the 2015 target therefore requires a rapid modernisation of european health systems with a particular focus on research to improve prenatal and postnatal services, as well as health education and more effective family planning.
in writing. the european union is a strong supporter of the millennium development goals adopted by the united nations, which set targets to be achieved by 2015 in the areas of peace, security, development, governance and human rights. among the eight goals, greater attention should be given to improving maternal health, as over half a million women, mostly in africa and asia, lose their lives during pregnancy or childbirth. the main cause of the increase in the worldwide mortality rate is the lack of skilled personnel to provide maternal care during pregnancy and at birth. this situation must be remedied by investing substantial funds in the underdeveloped countries, both in training specialized personnel and in medical equipment. the targets for romania in improving maternal health are to reduce the mortality rate to 10 deaths per 100,000 newborns by 2015 and to ensure universal access to health services. romania currently has a negative natural rate with a mortality rate of 12‰. through social assistance and information programmes, mother and child services, and additional eu financial support, the birth rate must resume its upward trend and romania must remain in the european union's demographic strategy.
the compromise reached by mr kirkhope is based on strengthening the principles of non-discrimination, efficiency and transparency, all to the benefit of the ultimate beneficiary, the european citizen. first, both potential abuses against air carriers and potential interference by air carriers with the proper functioning of the agencies are prevented. secondly, transparency is ensured and consumer misinformation about flight selection, duration, operators and, not least, price is prevented, while also ensuring the protection of personal data. thirdly, beneficiaries are also given the option of rail transport for short-haul routes, which in the long run can bring environmental benefits by reducing carbon dioxide emissions. unfortunately, there are some issues that the code of conduct does not address, and they are not included in its scope. this is the pricing policy of low-cost companies, which do not cooperate with computerised reservation systems. i believe that the sound principles underlying this code of conduct should be adopted by all ticketing systems, including low-cost carriers. it is regrettable from the consumer's point of view that these companies are not themselves integrated into the crs. in addition to increasing the choice for passengers, this integration would also create positive pressure in terms of ensuring quality of service and price transparency. i therefore call on the european commission and the member states, through the competent bodies, to strengthen controls and to apply sanctions where appropriate, in order to ensure genuine consumer protection, for which companies not listed in the crs represent an accessible but misleading means of mobility. i also support and recommend the suggestion that in the future crs should consider introducing regular bus services into the systems.
the code of conduct for computerised reservation systems sets out the rules to be followed by air and rail transport operators when making reservations. the current situation shows that bookings made through the computerised reservation systems used by travel agencies lead to higher prices. i insist on the need to protect passengers' personal data. i believe that passengers should be able to choose the ticket that is most convenient for them and that, for this purpose, the passenger should be informed correctly and fully. i would stress the need for no discrimination between distribution channels or between passengers or travel agencies on the basis of their place of residence. certain distribution channels, such as the internet, respect the principle of non-discrimination, but computerised systems impose conditions on tour operators, which often lead to higher prices and discrimination based on the place of residence of passengers. i think this regulation is important, we must always keep the consumer in mind and i insist again on the protection of personal data.
as the fictitious rapporteur for the opinion on this file in the info committee on behalf of the epp-ed, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and on the report he has drawn up. i would like to stress the importance of this report in ensuring real competition in the area of computerised reservation systems. at the same time, we must not forget the rights of consumers and we must ensure that they benefit from the changes to this code of conduct. consumers should have all the details of the journey they wish to take. at the same time, it is very important that they know the exact price of tickets, so that they are not misled by any hidden costs. at the same time, i want to emphasize that what matters most is that the companies responsible for these sites no longer sit on the boards of directors, because they always have hidden costs. i would like to conclude by once again assuring the rapporteur of my full support for the vote in the chamber tomorrow.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on all the work and effort put into this document. maritime transport and ports are two key components of the chain linking the european single market to the world economy, being essential for handling 90% of europe's international trade. from the perspective of regional development, ports are one of the key elements of cohesion in europe, both because of the development of tourism capacity and because of the creation of over half a million jobs, which ensure both the dynamism and development of the outermost regions. in this context, aspects such as improving the image of ports and better integrating them into urban life, modernising them by exploiting the opportunities offered by the erdf and the cohesion funds, as well as involving local and port authorities in the management of water and air quality in ports, contribute significantly to regional development. an integrated approach is needed for a competitive european policy, linking economic, environmental, social and security aspects. the commission's communication on the future of the european union's external relations is a valuable contribution to the debate on the future of the union. finally, i would like to draw attention to the black sea ports which, although successfully fulfilling all the requirements of terminals, still need to be supplemented by ports and inland waterways to facilitate multimodal transport and trade with member states without access to the sea. in this respect, i believe that the danube represents a potential to be exploited with a view to establishing a logistical corridor linking the black sea area, the eastern gateway to europe, with western europe. the union should therefore pay particular attention to the black sea region, which can become a pole of growth and development for europe, thus helping to reduce disparities between the outermost and central regions.
some 30% of europe's freight movements take place in the ports of rotterdam, antwerp and hamburg, and 20% in the nine largest ports on the mediterranean. the accession of romania and bulgaria gives the union an outlet to the black sea and, by implication, direct access to important seaports such as constanta, mangalia, varna and burgas, as well as to the ports on the danube: galati, braila, tulcea and sulina. many european ports face differences in storage and loading/unloading capacities, poor terminal organisation, inefficient sea or land routes and access, long waiting times, insufficient security for trucks, trains and barges, low productivity and excessive, slow and costly formalities. it considers investment in new and improved facilities, waste treatment facilities, emission reductions, simplification of procedures, transparency of public financing, health and safety at work to be a priority. the structural funds, state aid, the naiades and marco polo programmes are just some of the community instruments available.
the union's economic development and competitiveness depend on efficient freight transport. we need to develop railway infrastructure, maritime corridors, port infrastructure and co-modality. improving connections between sea and river ports and the inland rail and road network is an important component of logistics infrastructure. the accession of romania and bulgaria gives the union an outlet to the black sea. the danube is now almost entirely an internal waterway of the union. this means new opportunities for european freight transport. i would stress, however, that efficient freight transport requires: balanced use of all modes of transport, traffic congestion reduction, simplification of procedures, legislative stability, investment in logistics systems and intelligent transport systems such as galileo, but above all, guaranteeing transport safety. programmes such as naiades and marco polo are not sufficiently used by member states to improve freight transport. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the barriers faced by some road hauliers, and i am referring to romanian road hauliers, when they transit through the territory of certain member states.
climate change is having a significant impact on human health, with the proliferation of certain infectious and parasitic diseases, caused in particular by the rise in temperature. frequent heat waves, floods, and fires on uncultivated land can lead to other diseases, poor hygiene, and death. romania is increasingly experiencing heat waves, floods and storms during the summer. this summer's floods have left thousands of romanian citizens without shelter and sanitation. i ask the commission to provide romania with appropriate financial support to mitigate the effects of these natural disasters. reducing emissions from transport, which account for 70% of urban pollution, will help improve air quality. directives such as fuel quality, reducing car emissions, promoting green vehicles for urban transport, will help reduce environmental pollution. however, it will be important to monitor their implementation and the effects achieved.
the international 'bio-initiative' report on electromagnetic fields and their effects on public health raises an alarm and finds that the existing limit values for protection against non-ionizing radiation are outdated and that immediate action is needed to reduce human exposure to radiation from equipment used by mobile phone operators. scientific studies have shown that this radiation causes health problems, such as sleep disturbances, childhood leukemia, significant increases in stress levels, and a ten-year increase in cell phone use that doubles the risk of brain cancer. the new action plan for health must take account of these threats, which are intensifying due to the emergence of new technologies and are gaining ground in rural areas and developing countries. further research is needed in this area and in mental health issues such as stress and depression to determine whether they may indeed be associated with non-ionizing radiation.
i would add that the union's population is ageing and i believe that the european health and environment plan must address the problems facing the elderly. the 2010 outlook is too close, however. i believe that a long-term perspective and a proper strategy are needed. we should also not forget that the birth rate has declined in recent years. in some member states the infant mortality rate is high. the economic sustainability of the union is based on a young and healthy european population and therefore the union must come up with a concrete plan of measures to ensure the natural boost that the community needs. i would like to conclude by recalling the need to carry out epidemiological studies under the auspices of the commission to determine the effect of electromagnetic radiation on human health.
in writing. i welcome the inclusion in the report of a reference to the obligation of the commission and the member states to support the action plan for the environment and children's health in europe. the issue of the health of european children must receive all the attention it deserves, given the serious problems facing all member states. i would like to share with you a worrying statistic that has been recorded this year in romanian schools: one in four students suffers from chronic diseases. according to an official report, the main causes are improper diet, lack of exercise, and overweight buttocks. the most common conditions are vision problems, stunting, spinal deformities, speech disorders and anaemia. many of our students and preschoolers are overweight, and obesity has come about because of fast food. in addition to living in a natural environment that is increasingly dangerous to their health, it seems that the social environment in which children are growing up is not the best one. i therefore believe that the whole of europe must take a serious look at the health problems of children before we simply ask ourselves what europe will look like tomorrow.
in writing. - i voted to refer the regulation on the computerised reservation system back to committee because there are still ambiguous wording which can lead to different interpretations of the text. a regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and therefore the text must be precise. i do not consider that the publication in the official journal of the european union, before the date of entry into force of the regulation, of a clarification of the interpretation given by the european commission to definitions in the regulation is an acceptable solution. the european institutions have committed themselves to a process of legislative simplification and, in particular, legislative stability. there is certainly a need to update and improve the booking information system regulation and i appreciate the work of all my colleagues in the committee. however, they argue that greater clarity of the text would be required in order to guarantee a stable legal framework necessary for the smooth functioning of the air passenger transport sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the maternal mortality rate is high, not only in developing countries but also in the new eu member states. it is worrying that 536,000 families are left without maternal support each year, creating imbalances at the grassroots level of society. we know the causes and the methods to counteract this phenomenon, it is up to us how to organize and plan the activity. i do believe that the focus should be primarily on women's access to reproductive health information. we cannot succeed in our endeavours without women themselves becoming aware of the dangers to which they are exposed before or during pregnancy. at the same time, we must devote maximum resources to making services of high quality and accessible to all.
in writing. − the increase in infant mortality and the decline in the birth rate on the one hand and the ageing of the population on the other call for firm and urgent action by the member states and the european institutions. i voted for the resolution on maternal mortality ahead of the un summit on 25 september on the review of the millennium development goals, because it calls on the council and the commission to extend provisions for maternal care services and to focus on programmes for antenatal care, maternal nutrition, assistance to avoid caesarean sections, postnatal care and family planning. this resolution calls on the council and the commission to ensure that reproductive health services are accessible, available and of good quality. it is important to allocate the maximum available resources to programmes and policies on the prevention of maternal mortality. i also think it's important that family planning activities be funded from public funds.
in writing. - i voted for the report on trade in services, which underlines the importance of trade in services in job creation. amendment no 2, tabled by the socialist group, stresses the need for a differentiated approach in the context of the opening up of the market for services of general interest and, in particular, the need to distinguish between commercial and non-commercial services. i consider very important amendment no 5, which calls for universal, accessible, sustainable and affordable public services, ensuring high quality standards for all, and amendment no 10, which calls on the commission to become more involved in the fight against counterfeiting, especially on the internet, and calls on the commission to submit to the parliament and the council a proposal on the provision of qualitative and statistical data at european level on counterfeiting, especially on the internet, to the community and the member states.
in writing. − the enthusiasm of february 2005, when the 'european action plan for environment and health 2004-2010' was approved, has been dissipated without many of the proposed measures having been implemented. these deadlines and actions are particularly urgent in this decade when the biggest challenge to public health in the field of environmental protection is adapting to climate change. the less well-off segments of society, as well as the biologically more fragile (children, pregnant women and the elderly) will be more vulnerable to these effects. particular attention should be paid to the social aspects of adaptation, including employment risks and effects on living and housing conditions. the report calls on the commission to develop guides to good practice containing measures to be taken by regional and local authorities in cooperation with other institutions, as well as programmes to educate and raise awareness of the population in order to increase awareness of adaptation to the effects of climate change.
member of the commission. − mr president, for several months mauritania has been experiencing a tense political situation, opposing a large section of the parliament to the president of mauritania. on 6 august 2008, following the dismissal by president adallahi of several army chiefs, the military reacted by carrying out a swift and bloodless coup d’état. at present, the elected president remains imprisoned in a guest villa. it should be noted that the prime minister has also been arrested, while other institutions, such as the elected parliament, have not been affected. three years ago, on 3 august 2005, these same generals – at the time colonels – had carried out a similar take-over against the 20-year-old regime of colonel ould taya, himself in power following a coup. the recent take-over, nevertheless, is radically different from the one in 2005 that brought to an end a dictatorial regime and resulted in an exemplary transition to democracy strongly supported, politically and financially, by the european union. this transition, through a series of free and fair elections, had brought into power the first democratically elected institutions in mauritania, whose functioning must still be improved. from the first day of the coup, our position has been clear. commissioner michel firmly condemned the coup and requested the release and reinstatement of president abdallahi, as well as a quick return to constitutional rule. the whole international community followed with a very similar stance. the latest decisions taken by the military junta – the self-proclaimed ‘high council of state’ – to formalise the take-over and nominate a new prime minister and government are now a series of steps in the wrong direction, going against the demands of the international community. this coup, i think, represents a serious and evident breach of the essential elements of the cotonou agreement regarding democratic principles and the rule of law. therefore, on 2 september 2008, the commission adopted a communication to the council on the opening of consultations with mauritania under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. on the basis of the results of the consultations, appropriate measures will be proposed. however, considering the potential negative impact that measures could have on the population, we still hope that an acceptable solution will be found without the necessity to isolate such a strategically important country, as many of you have said. meanwhile, we will continue to follow developments in mauritania, while fully supporting the efforts of the african union to re-establish constitutional rule in the country. now, let me comment briefly on two questions. it is too early at this stage to go into any details of appropriate actions to be taken on particular projects or areas of cooperation. i think we should wait for the results of the cotonou article 96 consultations, and it would also be good, ms isler béguin, to wait for a delegation to go there. the cotonou article 96 consultations have to be started first. finally, there are two important projects: one is a european development fund project that is ongoing (value: eur 4.5 million) for civil society support, and the other is planned support for democracy and human rights investment (value: eur 300 000). these would probably be continued in the case of a partial freeze of cooperation. so, at the moment, we are at the stage where we think that the cotonou agreement must be invoked and ‘96’ consultations have to be taken, and then we will see.
in writing. the issue of human rights in african countries is, unfortunately, an eternal one. for many europeans, respect for human rights is a given that they are born with. the undersigned comes from a country that experienced the harshest communism in europe where human rights were not high on the agenda of its leaders. i can't say that 18 years of democracy have led to the complete disappearance of human rights violations but the situation is much better than the years of communism. the fragile african continent, whose centuries-long history has left a deep impression on the minds of its people, is now facing the threat of destabilizing an entire region through a coup d'état by the military rulers of mauritania. they have basically reversed the democratic decision of the mauritanian people in 2007, when they democratically elected their first president. respect for the rule of law is the first, fundamental requirement for democracy. the new regime in mauritania has no popular support and represents the exclusive wish of a small group of people. the international community has a duty to see that things do not degenerate in this country, both for the safety of its people and for the stability of the whole area, where terrorism is a real threat.
looking at things from a psychological point of view, it has been shown that harsh punishment never has a corrective role, but provokes hatred, violence, a desire for revenge against fellow humans and the authorities. i'm not advocating for impunity, but not capital punishment. let's not forget that people can be recovered through re-education and social reintegration programs. let's not forget that in iran, young people under 18 are subject to the death penalty, although international law, as recognized by the iranians, does not allow such atrocities. at one point i learned a terrible situation, a group of young people from isfahan were punished for dancing without permission close up, a few tens of centimeters from each other. as a teacher, i like to remind you that positive results in education are not achieved through fear, coercion and physical punishment.
last week, the first european summit on roma integration took place right here in brussels. the inclusion of this complex issue of the roma on the agenda of the european union is an idea that romania has consistently supported and i think it should be welcomed. as the council of europe has recognised, and has been concerned with this issue since the early 1990s, the roma constitute a true european minority. the roma problem is therefore a european one and not a national one, and the european commission should, i believe, have the full support of this parliament in its initiative. i believe that the european parliament should speak out in favour of placing education at the heart of european roma policy because the experience of recent years has shown that education is the surest way to integration and to overcoming the current challenges facing roma people and those living with them.
mr president, the foundation of the eu rests on the principle of representative democracy. we as members of the european parliament have a duty to make sure that europe’s policies reflect the will of citizens. therefore i wish to express the wariness caused by the ever-increasing number of gmo authorisations, and when i do this i speak on behalf of the majority of the citizens of the european union. a eurobarometer published in march of this year indicates that 58% of europeans are against gmos. over a third of them consider that they are not being properly informed of the benefits and risk of gmo usage in agriculture. these figures should worry us. instead, the commission continues authorising an ever-increasing number of gmos to enter the eu agricultural market. the 8 september authorisation of another genetically-modified soya bean is but the latest example. esteemed colleagues, in consideration of these facts i suggest we ask the commission to start an eu-wide information campaign on the risks and benefits that gmo represent to people and the environment. a new assessment should follow. until the citizens of europe are properly informed and express their position on this very sensitive subject, i am asking the commission to stop authorising any new gmos.
some 60 million european citizens, representing 15% of the union's population, are at risk of poverty. the following priorities have been set for poverty eradication: increasing employment, preventing school dropouts, ending child poverty, modernizing social security, ending discrimination. investments in education must be a priority. providing a modern education infrastructure, improving vocational training, salaries and the status of teachers are indispensable to quality education. today, the average drop-out rate across the union is over 16%. many of the young people who drop out of school come from rural areas because of their poor material situation. i call on the member states to give priority to the development of educational infrastructure and job creation, especially in rural areas. a good quality education guarantees a decent living for the younger generation, thus improving the economic and social cohesion of the union. the future of the union depends on the strength, value and quality of present and future generations.
thank you very much, mr. president. sustainable development of the european union's economies in the years ahead can only be achieved by strengthening the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the union, which account for around 4/5 of new jobs created in the union. the small business act, the package of measures for europe for small businesses published by the commission in june, recognises the central role played by small businesses in european economies and provides a general framework for the policies of the union and the member states. this document proposes the adoption of new regulations in key areas such as simplified state aid rules or increased financial discipline. but europe's small businesses need more than just the political will of the commission, parliament or even the member states. small businesses need new regulations to be developed quickly and applied effectively. the european parliament should play a key role in speeding up this process. thank you, sir.
we have agreed that european energy policy should aim to reduce the union's energy dependence, guarantee security of supply and price transparency. we can see today that the european gas market is characterised by a great dynamism in all areas: energy policy, technical equipment, the gas business itself and price transparency, with the way in which prices are set being a priority component for the protection of the european consumer. in this context, the measurement of gases and their invoicing to the end-user requires the development of appropriate standards in order to implement a uniform method of calculation, recognised throughout the european union, so that the measurement is transparent, fair, impartial and accurate. i ask the european parliament today to take all the necessary steps to verify the way gas is measured and billed, because i have found that in romania, gas transporters and distributors do not meet these requirements, as methane gas is measured in cubic metres and billed in kwh, the citizen being unable to verify the actual consumption, which is the result of a mathematical formula questionable as the parameters taken into account.
mr. president, i have to go. hungary borders with itself, the country lost 2/3 of its territory after world war i, in these areas, now in seven states, the political representation of the hungarians, totaling more than 3 million people, fought for their rights in the last century only by peaceful means. for the sixth year in a row, nearly 20 political organisations continue to discuss the possibilities of peaceful advocacy within the framework of the carpathian basin forum of representatives: identity, mother tongue, economic relations, autonomy. i'm a member of this forum myself. this year we decided to open a joint lobby office in brussels to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the eu. it is incomprehensible and unacceptable that the peaceful aspirations of hungarian communities are being labelled as extremist by politicians in some eu member states, while the hungarian minority living in their country is accused of collective criminality and wants to restrict the use of their mother tongue. this time i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to these excesses and remind it once again that national minorities must be guaranteed community rights and not be accused of collective guilt. the eu must play a leading and preventive role in this. thank you, sir.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr rasmunsen, and i consider the recommendations in the annex to his report to be important. venture capital and private equity funds provide the capital needed to meet funding demands for long-term investments and innovative projects, often characterised by a high degree of risk. however, their operation is less regulated than the banking system. the stability of financial markets requires that appropriate transparency is ensured and that specific measures are taken to avoid excessive indebtedness. over the last 10 years, pension funds and insurance companies have provided a third of the money raised by private equity funds. i believe that, in particular, with regard to pension funds, greater transparency is needed so that they can accurately assess the degree of risk of different investments. i would point out that hedge funds and private equity funds are based on a strategy of short-term growth compared to the duration of the investments europe needs.
sometimes, politicians especially, we are prisoners of dogmatism with catastrophic effects. a few years ago, the followers of liberalism, especially neoliberalism, would have thought that what happened recently in washington would be impossible and completely rejected from the perspective of their doctrine, and yet it happened. today, in the global context of globalisation, when the consequences, including the dramatic ones, are accelerating and affecting every country, every economy, the rasmussen report says that we, the european union, must act, and i am convinced that through the vote of the european parliament, the european commission will be called upon and able to rise to the occasion of this responsibility which affects not just the lives of a few, but the population of the european union as a whole.
in writing. it is indisputable that the lack of transparency of hedge funds and private equity funds has greatly amplified the current economic crisis. it is one of the elements that have led to the current inability to correctly assess the balance of credit and debt of many financial institutions. for years these private funds have been destroying economies, running aggressive acquisition campaigns, completely ignoring not only the medium and long-term economic consequences but also the social consequences of their activity. drawn only by the prospect of short-term profits, they have broken up and sold off entire companies, disrupted national economies and gambled in the money markets, all in a total lack of transparency and regulation. it is clear that these funds need to be regulated and that an appropriate level of transparency needs to be ensured. it is a necessity not only for the stability, health and smooth functioning of financial markets, but also to reduce risks to early stage and hence still unstable financial markets in developing countries. this crisis has shown how dangerous the consequences of laissez-faire politics are and it is important that we ensure transparency of financial activities in the future.
in writing. i commend the rapporteur for his tenacity in pursuing a topic against stiff opposition from various vested interests. the deepening financial crisis has structural causes which are linked with a huge overexpansion of financial transactions during the past decade, which have been based on a flawed securitisation process, reckless risk-taking, a breakdown of due diligence and lack of understanding of systemic risks. the problem with hedge funds, in particular, is that they contribute to increasing systemic risks. the claim that it is the money of investors which is at stake is very little of the whole story. very high leveraging and focus on short-term gains increase overshooting. but, even worse, the speculative nature of such operations produces instability and can damage financial stability, as has been clearly indicated by the current crisis. it makes sense to bring the activity of hedge funds (and private equity funds) within the territory of regulated financial entities. leveraging should not be unconstrained. similarly, hedge funds should provide the regulatory and supervisory authorities with full information on their transactions.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done and for his concrete proposals. the text we have today reflects the need for his report to be more than a simple enumeration of the main activities carried out by the committee on petitions on 2007. i am glad to see that the points we insisted on are in the report. petitions are about bringing to light the wrong or non-application of community legislation. petitions are about guaranteeing the rights that the european union confers on its citizens. however, i cannot avoid sharing with you the feeling that this unique institutional instrument is not always effective, or at least not as much as it could be or it should be. as rapporteur, mr hammerstein has rightly underlined some shortcomings and deficiencies which exist, and these must be addressed. firstly, it is hardly disputable that the number of petitions coming before the committee is constantly increasing. petitioners sometimes face substantial delays before receiving a response or seeing the effects of proceedings. the instruments for exerting pressure on member states are not always satisfactory. i am wondering what we can do to be more efficient. how can we ensure both effectiveness and a prompt response? we need better rules and more stringent time-frames. we need to enhance the committee’s own independent investigatory facilities, and for this we need more resources and legal expertise for its secretariat. the number of petitioners is increasing steadily. this is the voice of the european people and we cannot afford to ignore it. secondly, the institutionalised channels of communication with national authorities are insufficient. the number of inadmissible petitions is significant. we need to establish additional coordination structures with the relevant authorities at a national parliamentary and government level. i again congratulate the rapporteur on his work, and thank him and the colleagues from the other groups for their valuable cooperation. petitions are about citizens fighting for their rights, their european rights. we must be here, ready to defend them. that is the committee’s institutional role and duty. that is what we owe our fellow european citizens, and i am sure you will agree that there could be no better time to show our commitment to meeting their expectations. commissioner, this committee is not just about visibility and making itself more effective in the eyes of the european media. i wish to refer here – even if this is not about the 2007 report – to the very successful way in which the committee on petitions and the european commissioner, lászló kovács, have been working together to defend the rights of european citizens in my country of origin, romania, and i wish to thank him.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to express my gratitude to mrs batzeli, to the committee on culture and education and to all members for their support and amendments – and improvements – to the original text, aimed at strengthening it and stressing several aspects of a potential european year of creativity and innovation. the commission can wholeheartedly support the text as it stands. this initiative is a response to calls from this parliament and from the member states to strengthen the links between education and culture. by focusing on creativity and human talents, the commission wants to emphasise that, while we can draw inspiration from the past by learning from our rich european and world heritage, engaging with culture should, above all, be an experience which helps to unfold people’s innate potential and engage their active participation. creativity and capacity for innovation are linked competences which need to be fostered as widely as possible through lifelong learning. there is creativity and innovative potential in all of us, and everybody has different talents, be they professional artists or amateurs, teachers or entrepreneurs, from a rich background or a poor one. fostering that potential can help solve societal challenges and also to shape europe’s future in the globalised world, as mrs batzeli just said. this european year will provide an opportunity to highlight the fact that parliament, together with the council and member states, has already drawn up a charter for a balanced approach to education in the form of the recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning. we adopted this in december 2006, and it will be our guideline throughout the year. one of its striking features is the definition of competence as ‘knowledge, skills and attitudes’, and we plan to use the year to highlight particularly the question of attitudes, which is arguably the idea which europe most needs to work on. when this proposed european year was initially discussed with the committee on culture on a very informal basis, mrs pack emphasised that this was a european success story and a good one to put before voters in an election year – 2009. with this in mind, i would urge parliament and all of us to become real ambassadors for creativity and innovation - not only in 2009, but also beyond that.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. as you know, the european commission's proposal to declare 2009 the european year of creativity and innovation comes in the context of assigning a theme to each year in order to emphasise its importance. europe needs to focus on creativity and innovation to cope with a mobile europe, and the european year on this theme is a good opportunity to inform the public about good practice in this area and to stimulate policy debate. the overall objective of the european year 2009 is to promote creativity as a driver of innovation and a key factor in the development of personal, occupational, entrepreneurial and social skills through lifelong learning. creativity and innovation are values that become more valuable the more we use them. the more we use them, the more effective they will become. but to achieve a performance, special care and favorable conditions are needed. in 2009, it will be very important for each member state to promote, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, activities that involve more participation of young people, men and women on an equal footing, given that women are under-represented in scientific and research activities. it is also necessary to involve people with disabilities who have a high creative potential in these activities. the group of the european people supports innovation at european level, making the establishment of the european institute of innovation and technology a priority. but we believe that it is not enough to rely on the innate creative and innovative capacity that people have, but to organize activities and create events. in this context, we support the adoption of the draft report on the european year of creativity and innovation 2009 in the form already negotiated with the council and the european commission. in addition, it is essential to launch a set of measures to continue these efforts beyond the end of the european year of creativity and innovation and, as the commissioner said, to really be ambassadors of creativity at all times as european parliamentarians.
declaring 2009 the european year of creativity and innovation is a firm commitment we are making. in the union, 42% of enterprises active in industry and services reported innovative activities. in 2003, 65% of companies in germany were innovating and there were 312 patents per million inhabitants, compared with the european average of 128. in romania, one fifth of companies are engaged in innovative activities. also in 2006, at union level, investment in research and innovation represented only 1,84% of gross domestic product, compared to the 3% target set by the lisbon strategy. investment in research and innovation has not grown at the same pace as the european gross domestic product. i believe that conducting polls, holding conferences and information campaigns is not enough. the european year of creativity and innovation must be the year of commitments fulfilled. the promotion of creativity must be done through appropriate financial support in the community budget and in national budgets. commissioner, you are committed with us, the european parliament and with the member states, to making sure that creativity and innovation in europe really do grow in 2009.
we thank all those who made it possible for a country in central and eastern europe to celebrate the year of creativity one year earlier, budapest being in fact the capital of this new european trend of creativity and innovation. we propose that, along the same lines, the top universities in scientific research should have the chance to promote european policy by organising, in at least one university in each of the two last waves, special events in which experts and specialists can have a say. we also propose that the first two or three researchers from each of the two waves take a tour of the top five universities and research centres in europe.
in writing. diversity is one of the sources of innovation, and the enlargement policy of the european union has brought new sources of diversity and therefore new sources of innovation to europe. unfortunately, however, for students from new entrants such as romania or bulgaria, the costs of participating in erasmus are still too high, which reduces their participation in the programme. in 1987, the erasmus programme was launched to provide students with european mobility and the opportunity to pursue a better career. after 21 years, the programme has not only succeeded in attracting 2 million students and 3100 higher education institutions, but has also actively contributed to improving students' academic life, intercultural skills and self-confidence. without explicitly aiming for this, the erasmus programme has succeeded in introducing students to the very essence of the european union: freedom of movement in this great family of diversity but unity. that is why, in the context of the year of innovation and creativity, i believe that an increase in the budget for students from the new member states would mean that they would be more involved in this programme and thus increase diversity as a source of innovation and creativity.
in writing. pluralism must be, we all agree, a vital element in media. as a vital element, it must be supported and, with the adoption of the mikko report, an important step has been taken in this direction. the need for a balanced media market must also be recognised and supported at member state level, with member states committing themselves, both separately and jointly, to providing european citizens with the opportunity to receive accurate and varied information. cultural diversity and the ever-growing need to integrate the migrant population and minorities, combined with the importance of good information for the working population, are the main reasons for creating a book on media freedom. in this respect, i strongly support the ep's recommendation to support public media services towards an alternative to information based solely on commercial criteria. the need for europe's citizens to actively exercise their rights and obligations, to be informed and able to understand and criticize the way they are informed, must guide any future action taken by both the european institutions and individual member states.
in writing. the timely implementation, correct transposition and correct application of internal market directives are fundamental conditions for the effective functioning of the internal market, consumer protection, with consequences for competitiveness and economic and social balance within the eu. the scoreboard is an important policy tool, in that it calls on the commission to further develop the range of information and indicators it contains, including quality, the social conditions of workers, and the impact on the environment and climate change. romania ranks 7th in the eu for the transposition of internal market directives, with an average transposition deficit of 0.8% in december 2007, compared to the 1% target set by the heads of state and government for 2009. the report also highlights that delays or incorrect application of european rules affect consumers and businesses and calls on member states to do more to promote the services of the solvit network (solvit is a problem-solving network, in which eu member states work together to resolve, without the use of legal procedures, problems arising from the incorrect application of internal market legislation by public authorities). i congratulate the reporter on her work.
in writing. – the report was based on the european commission’s communication ‘improving the quality of teacher education’ (sec(2007)0931) and stresses the need for the member states to reform the national education systems in order to improve teachers’ training. the rapporteur has pointed out some very important facts such as the difficulty of keeping the best candidates for the teaching profession, the low payment of teachers in many countries, the poor social status of teachers, teachers’ low level in foreign language learning and many more. in order to solve these problems, we should have a coherent, complex and complete strategy all over the eu. we should have more training programmes for teachers, and these programmes should be structured in such a way that the qualifications obtained in the end are recognised in all the member states. in order to achieve this, we need to share the responsibility with the national governments, as we may have the desire but they have the competence to reform the education system. i hope this report will be the first step in a long process that will end with a real improvement of the quality of teachers’ education across the european union.
in writing. i would like to welcome the preparation of this report, which comes with pertinent recommendations on the effective implementation of the objectives of the bologna process and the creation of a european higher education area by 2010. this year it is important to look at the obstacles that persist in this direction, but also at the possibilities for further strengthening the process after 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. first, there is an urgent need to step up efforts to harmonise national education systems, to ensure full and mutual recognition of courses and the equivalence of diplomas. i believe that the differences which still exist in this area constitute the main obstacle to equal treatment of students. secondly, i would like to draw the attention of all european institutions to the fact that mobility is still inaccessible to many students, researchers and teachers, particularly in the new member states, because of insufficient funding. therefore, particular attention should be given to the appropriate financing of projects in the new member states as a matter of priority. only in this way will the objective of european mobility be achieved in a coherent and balanced way.
in writing. young people, and in particular students, are a priority on my political agenda, so i can only welcome the adoption of mrs pack's report on the bologna process and youth mobility. i believe that the principle of reciprocity in student and scholarship exchange, and the implementation of a european reference framework for the quality and recognition of diplomas, must remain two of the priorities of this policy, all the more so as there has been a reduced mobility of students to the new member states. the exchange of good practice between member states is a very effective way of improving the european framework for youth mobility and therefore needs to be constantly extended and supported. the fact that this report also has a social dimension, by expressing concern for young people from disadvantaged backgrounds, is commendable. above all, quality and excellence must be promoted, both among students and teachers, and this can only be achieved through consistent support, both at policy and investment level, of educational mobility, and this support must be provided at both european and national level.
in writing. i would like to refer to the social dimension of mobility, which is extremely important: it provides young people in the first place with a rich experience in terms of academic, cultural and social diversity, which is why i congratulate ms pack on the preparation of this report. as a romanian mep, i have proposed in this report the amendment that all students in the member states receive a single european student id. i am convinced that this unique card will encourage the mobility of young people across europe, leading to the exchange of ideas between students and, by implication, to a change of mentality, to openness to other cultures, stimulating creativity and the capacity for innovation. in my view, this measure is perfectly in line with the objectives of both the 2008 european year of intercultural dialogue and the 2009 year of creativity and innovation.
, in writing. mountain regions are important in the geographical structure of the european union, being an area where traditions, culture and language are preserved in perhaps the best conditions compared to other areas in the territory of the 27 member states. unfortunately, national governments are not currently implementing integrated regional development strategies, and there are many disparities in this respect, which are slowly but surely contributing to the depopulation of these regions. in line with the union's slogan 'unity in diversity', i welcome the parliament's decision to ask the european commission to draw up an integrated strategy for the sustainable development and use of resources in mountain areas, which can offer equal opportunities to european citizens who have chosen to live in the more difficult conditions of mountain areas. given that there are now discussions on decoupling compensatory payments in mountain areas, i believe that it is our duty as members of the european parliament to support the maintenance of existing financial support for mountain areas for the future. the mountain will thus be able to become a protected area, capable of sustainable development and a true oasis for european and international tourists.
in writing. the country i represent - romania - is covered by a third of mountains, and people living in mountainous areas are disadvantaged compared to other categories of rural dwellers. the proposals contained in the ebner report are welcome and i am convinced that a coherent european union strategy for mountain areas - which is essential and urgent - would make a major contribution to raising the standard of living in these areas. at the same time, i would stress that better regulation of community funds for rural development is equally urgently needed. for example, the romanian authorities have launched programmes to support micro-enterprises and tourism, funded by the eafrd. small businesses and guesthouses are particularly important for the revitalization of mountain areas. the applicant's guidelines for these measures, which require complex formalities, were published only one day before the opening of the session, although they had been drawn up as early as august. this is a clear breach of the principle of ensuring that potential beneficiaries are informed in a fair and transparent manner. i believe that community legislation should impose measures to avoid such situations, which render the union's financial effort useless.
in writing. we welcome the report by mr ebner. the mountainous area of romania covers 33% of the country's surface. as in other european countries, the mountain area is at risk of depopulation and the reduction of the economic activities specific to these areas. we need an integrated european strategy for the sustainable development of the mountain area. we call for a strong emphasis on supporting agriculture, organic products, agro-tourism and access and communications in the mountain area. we also support the encouragement of young families to set up family-type agro-tourism farms, so that the mountain area becomes an area of economic interest again.
cooperation between the european union institutions in the fight against terrorism must work well in the face of the increase in this phenomenon. terrorism has become the principal enemy of world stability and peace. if we look back at the events of september 11 or the events in madrid and london a few years ago, we have the perfect configuration of a painting that expresses horror, fear and suffering. in order to ensure the security of our citizens, we must take urgent action in the field of counter-terrorism. they should be carried out in close cooperation with local and regional authorities. nothing in the framework decision may be interpreted as reducing or restricting fundamental rights or freedoms, such as freedom of expression, assembly or association. the expression of radical, polemical or controversial opinions in a public debate on sensitive political issues, including terrorism, does not fall within the scope of the framework decision. as long as we maintain a balance between respecting the freedoms and protecting the security of our citizens, any initiative is welcome.
in the third millennium, the beauty of the global village has been overtaken by the threat of global terrorism. since states, in the name of subsidiarity, can only control 10-15% of cyberspace, leaving the rest to the private domain and families, we believe that for the first time, a global partnership approach is required, and that global terrorism should be responded to with a new concept - "global take care of the global village". the european union will thus demonstrate a concern for planetary security, as well as a concern for itself, through a different approach and a strategy to protect global cyberspace.
mr president, in spite of its horrible consequences, international terrorism is still, sadly, a controversial subject. we want protection, but we protest at the cost and distress to authorities when they propose to implement measures to that effect. we deplore the terrorist attacks, but we protest at the limitations to the full exercise of our rights, in spite of the fact that we know very well that the perpetrators are abusing our democratic system. ideally any limitation of our rights should be compensated by a corresponding increase in our security in the face of terrorist attacks. equally, we tend to resist legislative uniformisation against terrorism, although we know that the consequences are similarly destructive. furthermore, attacks might increase in frequency when the punishment is milder. therefore, to have an effective protection against terrorism, perhaps we should make up our minds and reconcile first these conflicting views.
i mean the report of mrs. roure. the right to the protection of personal data is a fundamental right. citizens whose data is processed have rights that must be respected at both national and european level. at european level, there are many regulations and directives requiring the exchange of information on crimes committed by european citizens in a member state other than the one of residence. i am referring to the regulation on access to the occupation of road haulage operator, the directive on the facilitation of the crossborder application of road safety rules. all these european regulations require the creation of computer systems to enable notifications and related information to be transmitted between member states. all the associated computer systems must contain a public part, but also a secure part containing data on offences committed in other member states, which must be accessed only by the responsible institutions and, above all, with respect for and protection of personal data.
i think it is very important that the european parliament should be involved in the decision-making process on the protection of personal data acquired in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, obviously as the representative of the european citizen. we must remember that the right of european citizens to the protection of their personal data is essential, but at the same time the institutions responsible for combating terrorism and crime must have access to this information. this report plays a particularly important role in creating the legislative framework for the quality, definition and characteristics of personal data, the transfer of data to third countries or to private individuals. i appreciate that it provides for a limitation of the duration of data retention to no longer than necessary and that member states are called upon to implement procedural and technical measures to ensure that these limitations are respected.
in writing. ensuring a legal framework for the protection of personal data within the eu's third pillar has been a concern of all eu presidencies in recent years. however, the framework decision adopted in 2006 was more of a compromise solution, which merely agreed on the lowest common denominator on personal data protection. for this reason, a further consultation of the european parliament on the extension of the scope of the framework decision and an analysis of its impact on fundamental rights within the union can only be welcomed. the main objective of the amendments should be to ensure a level of data protection similar to that in the first column and, in this respect, i regret that the commission's initial proposal was amended by the council. it is also regrettable that the provision on the working group with national data protection authorities has been removed by the council, which is a step backwards in the process of creating an effective system of personal data protection.
in writing. effective protection of personal data remains a prerequisite of modern democracy. while this protection may in some cases involve the alteration of community personal data bases so that the details of personal or material circumstances no longer allow them to be attributed to an identifiable natural person, we must be aware that the management of this global system for storing and processing information requires the existence of a particularly high-performance associated security system. since real security cannot be guaranteed by our adherence to a set of common principles, i believe that a pragmatic analysis of the risks involved in police and judicial cooperation between states with different levels of expertise in the field is necessary. to be very clear, i want to reiterate here the need for newly integrated states to benefit from a rapid transfer of expertise in the field so that the overall security of the system is not in any way affected.
in writing. with the expansion of the scope of terrorism to cyberspace, with the possibility of manipulating the masses much faster and with fairly low possibilities of rapid identification of the real perpetrators of terrorist acts, we consider that such a decision is welcome, in the context of the protection of the civil rights and freedoms of every citizen, but also the creation of the appropriate framework for the rapid identification and resolution of criminal cases, especially those that threaten the security of people, states, national infrastructures. we welcome the decision to consider the objectives set out in the framework decision of major european interest, in particular as regards common rules for the protection of personal data, so that the same principles and rules can be applied at member state level. i also think that a recommendation should be made on the classification of information in accordance with international classification systems, so that there are no longer any differences between member states and others in the application of security measures. two basic strategies must be considered in ensuring data protection and security systems: everything that is not prohibited is allowed, everything that is not allowed is prohibited.
in writing. – the attacks of 11 september 2001 have utterly changed the world. the terrorist attacks of that day have not only altered how americans see and understand the world but have also offered democratic societies all over the world a new perspective on this modern world, in which terrorist threats of attacks such as those that devastated madrid (march 2004) and london (july 2005) pose a frequent and daunting challenge. now terrorists are using modern means of communication, such as the internet, to push for training, recruiting, and planning attacks. the use of this technology presents a unique threat to the union, and we should all work together to combat terrorism with all the means that are at our disposal. however, in order for our democratic society to effectively counter these threats, the fight against terrorism must be accompanied by a strengthening of our fundamental rights and freedoms. to address the threat of terrorism, it is necessary to have common provisions in the eu, and existing legislation should be amended accordingly. modern terrorism has a new way of operating, but it must be fought by the eu with the same strength and determination demonstrated in fighting traditional terrorism.
madam president, today’s vote was an important moment for citizens fighting for their rights, their european rights. national governments at times abandon their citizens and reject their legitimate claims. through petitions european citizens can raise their voice, can hold their government accountable. ultimately they can have the justice they deserve. but this is not an important moment only for the european people: it is a crucial time for the european parliament too. today the european parliament, by voting in favour of the hammerstein report, shows its commitment to defend and protect european citizens. today the european parliament has the opportunity to regain at least part of the confidence and trust that some in europe have lost. many of our fellow citizens have worked hard to be in the eu, but membership is not only about duties – it is also about rights. we are here today to show our commitment to the europe which our citizens expect from us.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the proposal for a regulation is the legal framework needed to improve the quality and transparency of extrastat (statistics of international trade of member states with third countries) by introducing a single customs declaration in customs procedures in order to simplify data reporting procedures. the correct implementation of this regulation will contribute to increasing the comparability of international trade statistics and to strengthening control over privileged access to sensitive external trade data.
in writing. − by voting in favour of the own-initiative report on the internal market scoreboard today, i support the timely implementation and correct transposition of the internal market directives into national legislation, as they are fundamental conditions for the effective functioning of the internal market, promoting competitiveness and social and economic balance within the european union. the two scoreboards, the internal market and the consumer market, both contribute to promoting an improved internal market for the benefit of consumers. the scoreboard should encourage correct and timely transposition, but should also become a tool to help policy-makers identify obstacles and areas where new initiatives are needed. i hope that the outcome of today's vote will be to strengthen the solvit network and that member states will support the promotion of solvit services for the benefit of consumers. member states should also ensure that solvit centres have sufficient staff to allow for shorter examination times in order to resolve complaints more quickly.
in writing. − the aim of the bologna process, launched in bologna in june 1999, is to establish a european higher education area by 2010. the main objectives of the process are the reform of the higher education system and the elimination of remaining barriers to the mobility of students and teachers. i voted in favour of the report since i agree that our universities need an innovative and methodical curricular reform that would better support student mobility and the transfer of qualifications. also, i support the rapporteur's recommendation to obtain reliable statistics on student mobility and the socio-economic profile of students.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, but i would like to highlight two aspects which need to be analysed in detail by the european commission and regulated. first, we need to look at the distribution and geographical distribution of the continuing learning programme scholarships. the universities benefiting from student exchanges are mostly concentrated in the old member states. at the same time, the proportion of students from the new member states is much lower. the european commission needs to take urgent action, such as accrediting as many universities as possible to participate in university exchange programmes and thus increase the attractiveness of the new member states as destinations for students from all over europe. similarly, the commission must ensure that a proportionate number of students from each member state have a chance of a european scholarship. secondly, i believe that article 11 of the report should be applied in all member states, despite its recommendatory nature. this period of mobility of studies, whether it is a semester or a year, can greatly enrich the knowledge and personal development of young europeans. i would add, however, that the introduction of such a provision must also include the community support for the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the bologna process and student mobility report for several reasons: the bologna process at eu level has been one of the most revolutionary elements in the global education and training market. the job market was not ready for such a change either. it is not yet fully receptive to the three-cycle education system, 3-2-3 (bachelor, master, doctorate years) but, on the other hand, in many cases, before the introduction of the new system, organizations employed students from the bachelor cycle already during their studies. another progressive element was student mobility through european schools and the system of common diplomas, facilitated in particular by the european credit transfer system (ects). the trend among the world's great universities to move students from one course of study to another in various locations around the globe, especially where they have long-standing branches, shows that these have been real successes. the proposal made by ecvet (european credit system for vocational education and training) to transfer, recognise and accumulate learning outcomes acquired by individuals in formal, non-formal and informal contexts for the purpose of qualification, without focusing on time spent on accumulating knowledge, skills and competences, is also revolutionary. this trend is also global.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the new legislative proposal adapts the regulation on waste statistics to the comitology procedure, i.e. the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the european parliament resolution also calls on the commission to stop delaying the submission of evaluation reports on pilot studies designed to avoid double reporting of waste statistics.
in writing. − the lack of statistical data on waste generation and management prevents the european union from implementing a harmonised waste policy. statistical tools are necessary to assess compliance with the principle of preventing environmental degradation due to the use of waste and monitoring it at the time of its production, collection and disposal. member states have recognised that there are insufficient statistical data and that the definitions contained in this regulation are not sufficient to achieve comparable results between member states. therefore, data collection can be better achieved at community level in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. as regards statistics from agriculture, fisheries and forestry, it is necessary to consider to what extent the treatment of agricultural waste and organic waste will be covered by this regulation. there are therefore a number of key points which require greater attention in order to ensure a high level of data accuracy and, consequently, harmonisation of statistical information at community level.
in writing. - the recent attacks in the basque country underline once again that terrorism is a reality that is present in our daily lives and that we need effective tools to combat it. the new council framework decision on combating terrorism is certainly a step forward and i welcome its adoption. i am surprised that the seven-year anniversary of the attacks in new york on 11 september 2001 has gone unnoticed by the european parliament. we could have tried not to forget the victims of these attacks and we could have stressed that transatlantic relations are a priority among the daily tasks of the european parliament.
the third maritime package has emerged from the erika and prestige accidents, to which are added the accidents in the black sea in december 2007 and even the accident in the port of taragona this month. these accidents have caused immense damage both to coastal areas and to the marine environment. the package covers maritime traffic monitoring, maritime accident investigation, liability of carriers of passengers by sea in the event of accidents, port state control, common rules and standards for organisations with a role in the inspection and control of ships. i would like to point out that the new form of the paris memorandum entered into force on 17 september 2008. it is essential that all ships calling at european ports comply with certain security standards. i would remind you that the black and grey lists, published on 18 june 2008 on the paris memorandum website, list one and six member states respectively. a quarter of the member states therefore need to improve the security of their flagged vessels. regardless of the technical condition, a vessel in distress shall have access to a specially equipped place of refuge. european ports must be equipped with this facility and port administrations must be able to recover the costs incurred for the stationing of the vessel and the remediation of its deficiencies. i also believe that the liability of shipowners for the carriage of passengers should apply accordingly to inland waters. i want to congratulate my colleagues who worked and negotiated this maritime package. i believe that it is of vital importance for the economic future of the european union.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for this excellent debate. i believe deeply that piracy is definitely a form of terrorism and it is growing out of control. if nothing is done, the freedom of navigation in the gulf of aden and off the coast of somalia is in danger of disappearing, with the enormous consequences that this would have. i welcome the fact that the european union has been the first to take responsibility in this respect. i would add that, as you know, there are other areas in the world where piracy is also a problem, particularly in the straits of malacca and around singapore. this is an equally important and difficult issue for europe. we should be able to take a decision on the continuation of the planning of a european security and defence policy naval military operation at the beginning of october. the role of nato was mentioned in a number of speeches. nato has no jurisdiction in matters of piracy. she has a terrorism warrant. it is true that there may be similarities, but it is not the same. until october, the coordination unit will continue to play its role in supporting member states in trying to improve the security situation in the area. mr savary mentioned the poverty in somalia and i stress that we need to get the vessels chartered for the world food programme through. somalia and its people are in dire need of it. at the same time, action will be needed to establish a legal framework shared by the international community as a whole to enable more effective prosecution of such acts of piracy. there are pirates who have been arrested and brought back to european prisons. the legal aspect and the legal framework of all this must now, of course, be considered. i would like to say, unlike the member who spoke earlier, that i welcome the concrete actions taken by a number of states, because these concrete actions are very strong signals that will save human lives, because there may be not only a ransom demand, but also deaths. there were shots fired at fishing boats a few days ago. the situation is therefore dangerous and the military response is naturally an appropriate response. finally, i endorse the fine words of your colleague, general philippe morillon: it is a question of protecting our interests and our values. what a good and strong thing for europe to do in protecting its values!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this debate has been very fruitful, because it has certainly shown the willingness of parliament, the commission and the council to work together to address and give answers to the european citizens on a phenomenon which is becoming increasingly worrying, namely piracy. the debate has produced, and i share this analysis, the following: i do not think we should dwell too much on questions of competence, whether it be the european union or nato, we cannot waste time. i believe that we must strengthen coordination, but we have a duty to intervene in the meantime to prevent the strengthening of the position of the pirate organisations. at the same time, it is important to take action to prevent and eradicate the possible causes that lead to the growth of the phenomenon and the recruitment of pirates. it is clear that in areas where poverty is very high, pirate organizations have an easy time recruiting, especially young people, who are ready to do anything and to join these paramilitary organizations. that is why, alongside the control and repression measures which must be taken by the countries of the european union - and i am glad that they have already been taken - we must take action - and here the commission has an important role to play - to help some developing countries to grow economically, to prevent poverty from becoming a tool which facilitates piracy. we must also work to understand - and here too the commission can play an extremely important role in understanding - what is behind piracy, what are the links with fundamentalism, with terrorism; what are the strengths, what are the reasons. the commission can also give an important hand to the other european institutions in this area. we cannot simply stand by and watch, we cannot wait, and certainly not with parliament's strong action, which is pushing the council and the commission to act, we must ensure the safety of seafarers, we must ensure the safety of goods coming from outside the european union and supplying the european union, we must ensure that the problem is not just - it is right to raise it not only in the seas closest to the european union - where there are also fishermen who are working, and mr fraga stressed with concern that incidents are happening even closer. we must also look at what is happening in other parts of the world, because piracy is also affecting ships flying the flags of european union countries in very distant seas. that is why we must not waste any more time, but i think that today the european union's will has clearly emerged, particularly the council's, with the support of the commission, to intervene and to continue to act firmly to prevent and, i believe, with strategic plans to prevent the intensification of terrorist action. that is why the council will find the commission's support in all initiatives to combat terrorism and also to prevent it, terrorism linked to piracy, to prevent it and to counter it. so i believe that by this cooperation, with parliament's watchful eye, some positive results can be achieved. on the defence side, i too agree with minister bussereau's assessment of the words of our friend general morillon: it is a matter of defending the interests, but also the values of the european union.
president of the council. - mr president, i would first like to express my deepest sympathy with the shooting which claimed ten lives in the finnish high school in kauhajoki and my sincere condolences to the families of the victims and to the finnish members of parliament who are present in this house or who are called upon to do their work. in reply to mrs ticǎu's question, i would like to point out that at its meeting on 13 june 2008 the council reached political agreement on the three proposals forming part of the 'road transport' package. the aim of these new texts is to harmonise national regulations which may differ and thus be a source of legal uncertainty for road hauliers. the main substantive changes are: a more precise definition of the concept of 'cabotage', a standardised presentation of the community licence, the conforming copies and the driver attestation, the strengthening of the provisions obliging a member state to take measures when a carrier commits an infringement in another member state, and finally a better link between national registers of infringements in order to ensure european monitoring of road hauliers. the european parliament adopted the reports on this package at first reading at its meeting on 20 may. the work now has to be concentrated on reaching a compromise between the council and parliament. given the translation delays, work on the texts of the respective common positions could not begin until the end of august and the council hopes to be able to adopt the common positions on the three proposals in the coming weeks and to forward them, mr president, to the european parliament as soon as possible.
i would just like to say that we have not yet received the council's common position and i would like to point out that the date of entry into force of the regulation as regards access to the occupation of road haulage operator is 1 june 2009. this is a matter of 4.5 million employees and also of almost 800 000 european enterprises. the subject is therefore very important and we are awaiting the political agreement of the council to allow the necessary time for the second reading on this subject.
president of the council. - mr president, thank you for your very kind words, and i naturally pay tribute to you and to mr barrot for your commitment to europe. minister carlos coelho, ladies and gentlemen, the development of a new system for the schengen area is necessary to develop the new functionalities that will be required in the future to combat crime and control the crossing of borders. the sis i for all system, developed at the initiative of the portuguese presidency, mr minister, is a very successful compromise which has made it possible to connect the member states which acceded in 2004 and, above all, to lift controls at internal land borders last december and then at air borders in march. and it is a great emotion for all of us here to have seen the last iron curtain come down, to have seen the slovak and austrian prime ministers symbolically saw down the wooden barrier at the berg-petrzalka border post east of vienna. i think it is a matter of immense pride for every convinced european to see that we have a free movement area of 3.6 million square kilometres. it is the largest in the world, but - as you know - the necessary counterpart to this great freedom is the establishment of an electronic system that makes it possible to identify wanted persons who have committed an offence and to trace forged documents, stolen passports, while applying strict data protection rules that guarantee the freedoms of citizens - and i insist on this point. however, as you have pointed out, the current system does not allow the use of modern technologies, even if they respect the main principles of data protection, in particular the principle of proportionality. how can the police services do their work effectively when the central database does not currently allow for the consultation of digital photographs of wanted persons, or for their identification in a certain way? that is why the objective of establishing the schengen ii or sis ii information system must be maintained and that is the challenge - you have explained it very well - of our debate. i would like to thank vice-president barrot, who has agreed to continue to lead the development of the central database of the new sis and the interconnections with the national databases on the basis of a new mandate, and i thank him for his personal commitment to this task. the draft texts on which you will be voting tomorrow establish a clearer division of responsibilities between the member states and the commission at all stages, whether it be the development of the project, the final tests, the intermediate phase with the converter, or the final migration from one system to another, in order to achieve an overall balance between the obligations of the member states and the responsibilities of the european commission. i would like to thank in particular carlos coelho, who has been able to carry out an important, effective and imaginative work in a short time, also with his colleagues on the committee on civil liberties. i would also like to thank president deprez. mr coelho has favoured the inclusion of the texts needed for today's plenary session and these texts incorporate the proposals you have made, mr rapporteur. this support from your assembly today enables us to take a further step in the transition to sis ii in good time, before the current mandate of the commission expires - an ad hoc mandate, i would point out - on 31 december next, i assure the vice-president immediately. the technological challenge of implementing the new system is certainly considerable and was probably underestimated in the early days. indeed, the transfer of 22 million data items, involving more than 24 parties whose national databases are of disparate formats is, as you can imagine from this simple statement, not an easy task. but the effort that has gone into this project is, i believe, well worth the challenge. these technical and financial efforts deserve that the european parliament be fully informed of the progress and difficulties in the transition to the new system and that a deadline be set - as you have indicated, mr rapporteur - to test the new system and verify that it will be fully operational - we hope so - in september next year, as was agreed at the council of ministers for justice and home affairs on 6 june. we know that the deadline we have set is a demanding one. the technicians know this and we can only achieve this if everyone is fully committed to the sis ii project and takes on their responsibilities. the european parliament, through your report, is sending us a positive signal tonight by making demands which are perfectly legitimate. that is why the council intends to approve without reservation the amendments tabled, which have received - i stress this - the support of all the political groups in your assembly. i really thank you for the work you have done.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i too would like to thank the presidency and mr jouyet for their agreement to the report by mr carlos coelho, because i believe that we must move forward in this important area without delay. and i would also like to thank carlos coelho for his report and for his personal commitment to the success of sis ii. if sis ii is to be built, well, it will owe you a lot, mr. coehlo. your report again highlights the strong interest and continued support of parliament for the project to develop the second generation schengen information system. the sis ii will of course be a key tool in the common area of security, freedom and justice and to this end it is of course essential that it should be operational as soon as possible. i therefore welcome the agreement reached on the legal instruments for the migration from sis 1 to sys ii. the agreement is acceptable because it maintains the following three key principles: a clear delimitation of the tasks and responsibilities of the actors: member states, commission, council; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes; a clear definition of the tasks and responsibilities of the actors: member states, commission, council; a clear definition of the tasks and responsibilities of the actors: member states, commission, council; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes; effective and unambiguous decision-making processes. the setting of binding deadlines; the adoption of this legal framework by october will allow us to ensure the continuity of the work needed in 2009 for sis ii. it is true, as jean-pierre jouyet, the minister, has pointed out, as you have pointed out, that the date of 30 september 2009, which is now included in the draft legal instruments on migration, is an ambitious date and, even this summer, we had to suspend certain tests in progress with the member states after informal consultations with experts from the member states. the contractor now has 20 days to remedy the existing problems. but it is certain that we must be very careful about all the difficulties that can arise and hinder the full timetable of sis ii. we are currently discussing with the member states the best approach to complete the work on sis ii. we must also strike a balance between the political priority attached to this system and, at the same time, the assurance of the highest quality of service it will provide to the national authorities who will use it. in any event, the adaptation mechanisms provided for give us the flexibility and require us to be transparent about the development plan. so, mr coehlo, we are of course in full agreement with your amendments. on the one hand, the fixing of an expiry date for the migration legislation at the end of june 2010 will give us sufficient room for manoeuvre in case of difficulties to finalise the development of sis ii or for migration, and this date guarantees that sis ii will be fully operational by mid-2010. the commission's reporting twice a year on the development and migration of sis 1 to sis ii will also ensure that the work on sis ii is transparent to parliament. i would like to stress, mr president, after the presidency, which was expressed through minister jean-pierre jouyet, that for schengen to be a complete success - as it already is - we need sis ii. it is a true technological achievement which illustrates all the potential of europe when it really starts to use new technologies, but it is absolutely essential. i am therefore very grateful to parliament for accepting all these perspectives almost without opposition and for approving mr coehlo's report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i support the rapporteur's proposal to specify the expiry date of this new legislative package, namely 30 june 2010, which is important in order not to leave a door open to possible delays in the functionality of the second generation of the schengen information system. the abolition of controls at land and sea borders, which started on 21 december 2007 and air borders in march 2008, is a relevant step for nine of the ten new member states. the council decided that the removal of controls in the three remaining member states, namely cyprus, romania and bulgaria, would take place when, following the assessment of the schengen system, its operationality could be guaranteed. but the operation of the schengen system in these three remaining member states obviously depends on the operation of sis ii in the member states which are currently part of the schengen area. as is known, the opening of sis ii was initially scheduled for may 2007, then rescheduled for december 2008, and finally rescheduled again for september 2009. this rescheduling may have a delaying effect for the remaining three member states. let us not forget that all three of these member states are border countries for the european union and have both land and sea borders. the first two main measures of the schengen acquis are the abolition of checks at the common borders and their transfer to the external borders and the definition of common conditions and modalities for checking persons at the external borders. these measures of the acquis are undermined by the fact that countries such as romania, bulgaria and cyprus are dependent on the delayed implementation of sis ii in the schengen countries. i therefore ask the commission and the french presidency to resolve the problem of the administration of the sis ii project and the negotiations with the contracting firm so as to avoid imposing a new timetable for the operationalisation of sis ii.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the conclusions of her report, which i fully endorse. after more than 20 years of tropical timber agreements, their impact on the sustainable management of tropical forests seems limited. the un food and agriculture organisation estimates that between 2000 and 2005 alone, tropical deforestation rates increased by 8.5% when compared to the 1990 levels. it is a pity that parliamentarians and civil society are not more involved in the design of such agreements, in order to balance trade interests and push for a more sustainable management of tropical forests. but, however effective it may be, an agreement has to be part of a more general approach, where every region acknowledges its responsibility and takes firm action to stop forest devastation. in europe we might think that we have effective mechanisms to protect biodiversity and the consumer, but reality proves us wrong. large volumes of illegal timber and timber products arrive in eu ports every day. once the illegal timber has penetrated the market of one member state it can easily be sold in any of the other 26 member states without any further control of its legality. in this way, european consumers buying, in good faith, furniture or construction materials from supposedly legal sources, instead become unwitting accomplices to forest crimes. as a main importer and consumer of wood and having committed itself to halving deforestation as part of its plans to fight climate change, the eu has a responsibility in combating illegal logging and trade in illegally harvested timber products. if we really want to get serious about tackling deforestation and illegal logging, we should first sharpen up our act back home by enforcing european legislation that prevents the marketing of illegal timber and timber products in the eu. regrettably, a legislative proposal in this sense has constantly been delayed, despite the eu resolution in july 2006 and the announcement made by the commission work programme in october 2007. on the occasion of this debate, i would like to invite the commission to clarify the reasons that led to the postponement of the publication of the forest package. furthermore, i urge the commission to present, without further delay, legislation which requires that only legally harvested timber and timber products are placed on the eu market. i am afraid too much time has been wasted already. at this point i call on the commission to speed up the procedure to put forward this important piece of legislation, so as to allow a first reading before the end of this parliamentary term. we need to ensure that we are sending the right messages and that we are sending them on time.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lucas, and all her colleagues on their work on this report. i believe that the international tropical timber agreement will help ensure the sustainable management of the world's forest stock, even though almost 80% of it has already been destroyed or degraded. we all know that forests are the cradle of biodiversity conservation and play a crucial role in the fight against climate change. low-priced imports of timber and furniture, based on voluntary agreements, destabilise the international market and lead to the loss of skilled jobs in both the importing and exporting countries. i therefore reiterate and stress the need to take legislative measures to protect tropical forests and not only against illegal exploitation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would like to stress two priorities which the european commission must have in mind for the coming year in terms of social and employment policy. firstly, the european commission must support youth employment. a recent european study shows that fewer young people are entering the labour market, discouraged by obstacles such as the lack of jobs in their field of study, lack of experience or lack of professional skills. it is imperative that all young people have access to the best quality education and to a qualification that is in demand on the labour market. i therefore believe that the education system should be linked to the labour market and that the transition from education to work should be smooth, through various integration and vocational training programmes or through practical training within the european union. secondly, the european union must support, coordinate and complement the member states' action in the field of sport, promoting competitiveness and the affiliation of as many children and young people as possible to sports clubs, as well as impartiality and transparency in sporting competitions. sport must also be supported financially and, in this respect, i support the creation of a new budget line to support european programmes for sport.
in writing. the union is facing major difficulties, caused by the unexpected weakening of the international framework. the instability of financial markets, fluctuations in fuel prices, terrorism, the specter of the cold war, the urgent need for energy security, the acute effects of climate change are threats that the european union can only overcome through unity and consensus. the consequences of the crisis in georgia, the financial crisis in the united states and the escalation of terrorism must impose clear directions for action in the commission's legislative and work programme. the year 2009 is crucial for institutional stabilisation through the lisbon treaty, whose ratification must be the zero priority in the period ahead. the programme must cover the issues on which the future of the union depends: the common energy policy, the common foreign and security policy, the reform of the neighbourhood policy framework and the strengthening of commitments to the western balkan countries, moldova and ukraine, countries that need the european union and which the union needs. 2009 is also the year of the european parliament elections. the eurobarometer is not encouraging at all. the commission's legislative and work programme must demonstrate that the european institutions have as their primary objective the fulfilment of the wishes and the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the treaty on european union, including a number of amendments to the treaty on european union. despite the differences in approach which have emerged during the debate, i believe that the trautmann report is a step forward for the whole of the european area, even if amendments such as 132 or 138 have given rise to lively debates. i believe that the current form adopted by the ep ensures both a common approach to the development of communication in the common european space and a constructive control of what can happen in a virtual communication space, related to the protection of data transfer or organised crime that can be transmitted via the internet, the waves, and more. that is why, as a member of this parliament, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − as the opinion rapporteur on this report within imco, i am pleased to see that the efforts made in recent months by my colleagues, by all of us, have come to fruition in the form of this balanced report, which brings significant improvements to the electronic communications sector. i am confident that these changes will benefit consumers by offering them a variety of choices and that they will also support a competitive market. i believe that maintaining functional separation as an option at the disposal of national regulators will give them the chance to promote competitiveness in this area. european economic growth and consumer welfare depend on a dynamic and competitive telecommunications sector. competitive markets have more broadband available, new entrants have brought increased speeds and innovative services. the objectives set out in the new directive have thus been achieved: reforming spectrum management, improving the consistency of the internal market for electronic communications regulations, and increasing the level of security and integrity for the benefit of users of these services.
in writing. − the success of the eu's telecommunications market liberalisation process over the past 10 years is undeniable. reform of the regulatory framework for electronic communications is part of the commission's overall strategy for the internal market and is essential to achieving the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy, as telecommunications contribute to the efficiency of work in many other sectors from a macroeconomic perspective. i appreciate the work of the rapporteurs in developing a coherent and effective package of measures reflecting both the eu's objectives and the views of the majority of members of the european parliament on an area vital for developing and strengthening the links between education, research and innovation and, in particular, for building a european information society, adapted to the global economy, contributing to economic growth, creating jobs and delivering better services, improving the quality of life of union citizens. the positive vote on key issues such as clarifying and enhancing user rights, strengthening the protection of personal data, creating a body of european regulators (bert) and better managing radio spectrum underlines the epp-ed's concern to strike a balance between ensuring the fundamental right of eu citizens to be integrated into the information society and creating the favourable environment for innovation and economic development.
madam president, are only greed, euphoria and cheap money to be blamed for the whole mess? what about the flaws of the originate-and-distribute model, which has enhanced systemic risk? what about skewed pay schemes with a lack of ethics, which have stimulated reckless risk-taking? what about investment-grade values assigned to trash? what about conflicts of interest? what about banks engaging in casino-type transactions? what about the ‘shadow’ banking sector, with its extreme leveraging and speculation? why have policymakers not learnt from previous crises, though stern warnings were sent? just remember what lamfalussy, gramlich, volcker and buffett said years ago. the argument that regulation stifles financial innovation i find ludicrous. not all financial innovation is sound. is a quasi-international ponzi scheme, as it has been developing via toxic products during the past decade, to be tolerated? the issue at stake is the lack of proper regulation and supervision, and a poor understanding of financial markets, of the way they function and of systemic risk. free markets are not synonymous with deregulated markets. correction is going to be very painful, especially in the united states, but europe is not immune to economic downturn. solutions should not be patchy – consider that markets are global. international coordination is needed to restore confidence. (the president cut off the speaker.)
they say you can run from globalization, but you can't escape it. so are global financial markets. while all over the world there were various forms of profit, it was a state of normality, today, when the generalized form of loss is the fault of capitalism. in our view, the fault lies largely with the state, which has neglected one of its key infrastructures, the financial infrastructure, which is as important as roads, railways and airlines. what the united states and the european union are doing now, and the member states of the european union are doing, is trying to establish a very serious new infrastructure, the global financial infrastructure. unfortunately, the states are intervening too late. we are not talking about new regulation, but about a streamlining, a supervision of global financial circuits that the states of the world should work together to bring about a restoration of the credibility of the financial system.
in writing. – the us financial system has been jolted in the last few days as lehman brothers filed for bankruptcy and merrill lynch, fearing a similar-type collapse, agreed to be taken over by the bank of america. the dow jones industrial average fell 4.4 % on 15 september, and another 4.1 % two days later. the decline in stock prices worldwide on 15-17 september resulted in about usd 3.6 trillion in losses for the investors. the stock of aig has plunged more than 90 %, from usd 72 last year to usd 2.05. the u.s. government took control of aig with an usd 85 billion bailout on 16 september. these ‘developments’ point to the largest financial crisis facing the us since the opening of the great depression. they have occurred a week after the us federal government seized control of fannie mae and freddie mac, the giant mortgage companies. the problem is that lehman brothers and aig owe many billions to creditors not only in the united states but in europe as well. is europe prepared to absorb the shock induced by its indissoluble link with the us market? is the eur 36.3 billion injected into the market by the ecb and bank of england enough to make the danger disappear?
according to research, at least 20% of the energy consumed in the european union is wasted. it should be noted that the energy saving potential of dwellings is close to 30%, i.e. one third of the energy currently consumed by dwellings can be saved. the solution at hand is the thermal rehabilitation of residential buildings, a solution that the european union unfairly ignores and underfunds. in romania, for example, thermal rehabilitation would save over 600,000 tonnes of oil equivalent per year. i think that the european parliament should support increasing to at least 10% the proportion of community funding that can be allocated to improving thermal efficiency in the home. this would be a practical, practical, and long-term solution to the problems that energy prices cause citizens.
we've all heard the statistics about adults and children suffering from obesity, and i'm not going to go over them again. what's more worrying is that, since 2010, the outlook is even worse. that is why obesity and overweight are, and should be, top priority issues for us to be concerned about, and that is why i welcome the commission's white paper and mr foglietta's report. unfortunately, obesity affects those in the most disadvantaged socioeconomic categories, all the more so as the price of basic foodstuffs has increased considerably in recent times; however, promoting a healthy lifestyle and diet could reduce the high number of obese people, while being an essential element in reducing the costs of health systems in the member states, with the complications of treating obesity-related diseases. and i don't think coercive measures are the answer. european citizens have the freedom to choose. the solution is better nutrition information, in particular proper labelling that clearly states the nutritional content, but also information campaigns that the european commission and the governments of the member states should fund. educational campaigns for parents, who have a very important role, as well as for children. in addition, member states should, as far as children are concerned, monitor the contents of school vending machines, monitor meals served in school and kindergarten canteens and encourage greater consumption of fruit and vegetables. kids' sports classes are very important. last but not least, the commission should pay close attention to industry initiatives on responsible advertising and reducing salt, sugar and fat content.
i think we need to focus our attention on overweight children and try to create new programs that tackle obesity early in life, when we're learning dietary habits. we need to promote food education and continue that education beyond primary school. all member states must include in school curricula an initiative on the benefits of balanced nutrition and physical exercise. according to some statistics, in 10 years europe will have over 30 million overweight children. i'm deeply concerned about this problem we're facing. to that end, we've initiated a series of written statements proposing the creation of special programs in schools for these children, which would include free periodic medical tests, counseling programs to help these children. i support the proposals in this white paper, such as proper labelling of products, restrictions on advertising of unhealthy foods for children, vat reductions on fruit and vegetables and on food intended exclusively for children. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
in writing. the proportion of obesity and overweight caused by poor diet and lack of physical activity is increasing across the eu, with major economic and social consequences. in order to ensure a healthier society, the community must actively involve itself and support the member states in reducing the harmful effects of dietary imbalances and sedentary lifestyles. but it is not enough to try to promote healthy lifestyles for european citizens, we must also provide them with the necessary motivation and infrastructure, namely the introduction of measures at local level to reduce dependence on cars and to promote walking, parks and cycling paths. policies to combat obesity need to be linked to urban development and transport policies, such as the green paper on urban mobility, which need to complement efforts to promote physical activity. more attention should be paid to disadvantaged socioeconomic groups affected by the rise in raw material prices and, by implication, food prices, as well as to vulnerable groups such as children and pregnant women. promoting nutrition education and banning foods high in fat, salt, or sugar in schools and kindergartens will ensure a healthy generation.
i would first like to welcome the commission's whole proposal for a new social package. the need to modernise the european social model is evident in the specific context of the 21st century and the objectives of the lisbon strategy on sustained economic growth and prosperity of the population. the directive under discussion today is important for the practical implementation of the renewed social agenda, especially in the context of the priorities on promoting geographical and occupational mobility and ensuring a longer and healthier life for the european citizen. i hope that its provisions will lead to health care being provided as close to home as possible, taking into account all categories of the population, including immigrants, the foreign-employed workforce and young people studying abroad. it is also essential that healthcare provides quality and safe services, regardless of where they are provided in europe. i would like to stress in this connection the importance of educating and training european professionals in the field and of facilitating european cooperation and the exchange of good practice. given the cross-border dimension of the directive, vocational training should include knowledge of foreign languages and familiarity with the notions of intercultural dialogue. finally, adequate knowledge of information and communication technologies is equally necessary for the success of the directive, and indeed crucial in order to strengthen the so-called ehealth domain.
the provision of healthcare is a pillar of the european social model and the creation of an internal market for healthcare services should not encourage the emergence of health tourism, which will only be accessible to patients in very good financial circumstances, who know many foreign languages and who have access to information. this requires clarification of the conditions for reimbursement and authorisation of medical care, as well as the concept of medical care. i am concerned about the effects this directive will have on the new member states. european citizens will not travel to countries where healthcare is very expensive, but vice versa, to countries like romania, bulgaria, poland, leading to an exodus of patients from western europe to eastern europe. although the provision of healthcare in the new member states in accordance with clear standards of quality and safety does not apply uniformly to all types of healthcare, the use of dental services in eastern europe is continuously increasing. this will lead to a price explosion in the host countries, making it harder for citizens to access health care, both because of the high prices and because certain companies will seek out customers willing to pay more. the opening of the european healthcare market will seriously affect the healthcare system in eastern europe, creating a situation of inequality. giving patients greater freedom of choice in how and where they receive health care is a positive thing as long as all citizens have access to services regardless of their social background.
the new member states are facing a major migration of highly skilled labour from the health system, and this is creating major imbalances which will require considerable financial efforts to redress. the new member states need to benefit from extensive european funding programmes that develop flexible ways of delivering health services in a practical and non-discriminatory way for all patients.
the european mobility policy is one of the most important of the european union, giving every citizen the opportunity to settle and work in the country where they enjoy better living conditions. but the fear of not being able to recover the costs of medical treatment abroad is a major obstacle to achieving freedom of movement. i would therefore like to propose the establishment of a european health insurance scheme recognised in all member states, which would facilitate european cooperation in crossborder healthcare. this will lead to the establishment of a modern social agenda that will help to promote employment and educational opportunities.
in writing. i consider access to good quality healthcare to be one of the core values of social europe. patient rights in the union and crossborder cooperation between member states are an important part of the new social package. patients must have access to quality healthcare in any member state and be able to be reimbursed up to the amount they would be reimbursed in their own countries. today, within the european union, there are great differences between healthcare services, both in terms of quality and in terms of reimbursement. i believe that there is an urgent need for an evaluation of the european health system and the medical technology used. the provision of adequate medical equipment for the diagnosis and treatment of various diseases in all hospitals is an indispensable condition for the quality of the medical service. doctors and nurses change their residence to another member state for better pay and better opportunities to investigate and treat patients. it is important that the directive on patients' rights in the european union also includes, depending on the priorities of the union, a minimum list of health services to be fully covered by health insurance budgets.
in writing. - pluralism must be, we all agree, a vital element in the media. pluralism must be upheld and the adoption of the mikko report is an important step in that direction. the need for a balanced media market must be recognised and supported at member state level, and member states must commit themselves, both separately and jointly, to providing european citizens with the opportunity to receive accurate and varied information. cultural diversity, the ever-growing need to integrate migrants and minorities, and the importance of good information for the working population are the main reasons for the creation of a charter for media freedom. in this respect, i strongly support the ep's recommendation to support public media services towards an alternative to information based solely on commercial criteria. the need for european citizens to actively exercise their rights and obligations, to be informed and to be able to understand and criticize the way they are informed must guide all future action by the european institutions and by each member state.
in writing. − the continuing rise in oil prices raises major concerns in terms of the impact of this phenomenon on economic growth in the european union and, in particular, the negative consequences on the purchasing power and quality of life of consumers. the eu's external policy is crucial in this area. as the eu economy is still heavily dependent on energy imports, a common energy policy based on the principles of solidarity, security and diversification of sources and routes of external supply is needed. as rapporteur on regional cooperation in the black sea, i have always stressed the urgency and importance of these actions. but today i am urging the commission and the council to come up with concrete measures to reduce the eu's energy dependence in the near future. this call is not only for oil imports but also for gas, including through the implementation of the nabucco project.
european schools are recognised in europe as elite schools providing a solid education for young people. in 1953, jean monnet said that the aim of these schools was to bring together children from europe, regardless of nationality, and to instill in them the spirit and the european identity so that they could then give birth to a united and prosperous europe. the following important aspects must be taken into account in the reform programme for these schools. all 23 official languages of the european union must be present in these schools and children must have the opportunity to speak their mother tongue. unfortunately, there are still official languages of the european union that are not spoken in any european school. in addition, one of the objectives of the european schools is to give unity to groups of children, to bring them together and to facilitate the development of a spirit of tolerance and communication between them. so i don't think it's appropriate to divide them into those three categories. the latter, and others, as it is called, are allowed to study at such a school only within the limits of the places left after their occupation by the children of european officials. this categorization is discriminatory and i propose to remove it from the statute of european schools.
i believe that european schools are the schools of the future in the european union, because they take into account increased mobility and the process of globalisation, offering every pupil the opportunity to learn in his or her mother tongue and at the same time promoting multilingualism. i've personally been tracking this school system. i visited the oldest european school in brussels, which was founded 50 years ago, and i met over 40 romanian pupils who have the opportunity to learn in their mother tongue. it is worth mentioning that the european school stimulates social inclusion, with pupils of different nationalities getting to know and help each other. i would like to emphasise the effectiveness of the way in which the baccalaureate examination is taken, an examination which stimulates performance and prepares the pupil for life as a future european citizen. i believe that the european school system should be extended to all the member states of the european union so that it is part of a common european education policy. furthermore, i propose the establishment and support of european regional schools, which take account of the basic principle in the european union - regional policy in a mobile europe based on knowledge.
european policies related to the reform of traditional schools in their becoming european schools, involving local administrations up to national ones, mean, in our opinion, three types of reforms to be carried out: a systemic reform, including curricular, based on quality and efficiency, a continuous one, which means an evaluation and exploitation of previously obtained results, with their adaptation to the specifics of european schools, and then a third reform taken on board, based on the responsibility and accountability of all social actors. on this last point, we believe that the european school should be seen as another model of schooling, a global one, in which the 'school after school' component has its effect. young people, from 2:30 to 5:00 during the semester or quarter, have a special schedule, but also during the summer holidays.
in the 50 years of its existence, the european schools have demonstrated their quality in educating future generations. however, i believe that in today's debate we must focus on the need to adapt european schools to the requirements of the present, taking into account the enlargement of the european union to 27 member states, as well as the phenomena of globalisation and migration, increased geographical and professional mobility. i would like to point out two basic elements in this direction. first, a greater level of openness is needed in european schools to integrate all citizens who need such assistance. secondly, i consider the objective of recognition of diplomas in all european countries to be a priority.
in writing. – the processes undertaken by the european union in the last few decades and the ever-evolving educational system have meant that a new perspective on the role and importance of the european schools has to be taken into consideration. given the latest enlargement of the eu to 27 member states and with the increase in eu staff that implies, the significance of a well-reformed european school has become an issue of high priority. in order to improve future expectations from the european schools, we must approach the sensitive issues challenging the current system and identify the problems in order to design the foreseeable changes. thus there is great demand for a newly drawn-up and comprehensive reform of the european schools, so as to make them more competitive and transparent on a european level and to design their full-weight purpose in a more up-to-date way. the implementation of the principle of non-discrimination while granting fundamental freedoms to the pupils must be at the core of the new system in order to make it fully operational and in their own benefit. nevertheless, the financing of the european schools must be also reevaluated by taking into account indiscriminating measures for the pupils with regard to their division into categories.
mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner germany, distinguished colleagues, in recent years important leaders, especially socialists, have spoken of the need to reform the world financial system, a post-bretton woods that can face the challenges of globalisation. unfortunately, nothing has happened. i therefore welcome the recent statements by president sarkozy and the french presidency, who, like other european leaders, have spoken of the need for this reform. i welcome what the president of the european commission, mr barroso, said today about the need to look beyond the financial crisis and beyond europe. that is why i propose, mr president of the european commission, that the european union and the european commission explicitly commit themselves to the need to reform the global financial system, together with other major players such as the united states, china and japan, in order to equip humanity with the tools needed to govern financial globalisation.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i have already spoken, so i will be brief. on the management of the financial crisis, i am very sorry that i am not enough for mrs berès, but i am glad that mr almunia is enough for her and that she is very happy to see him again. more seriously, it is clear from the speeches by mrs berès, mr karas and mrs kauppi, in particular, that what is needed, but this has already been said, is to ensure that we adopt the commission's proposals which are on the table and which concern all the elements of supervision, regulation and amendment of accounting standards. this is in the sense of adapting the regulation, of adapting the rules as is necessary in the present situation, and not of over-regulating. as has been said, we need more europe in this area and we need to adapt our regulation to the interdependence that binds financial institutions and our rules for financing the economy. we must quickly catch up with the backlog we have made in this area and regain the momentum we had a few years ago - you will be discussing this - in order to put into practice all the organization that had been put in place in the framework of mr lamfalussy's work. it is also important that the commission has its own powers, its own role to play in this area and the commission is quite right to insist on this. it is necessary to be perfectly logical in this respect. if we want to have more integration, if we want to provide the answers that we find effective in others, we need to set up an organization that is up to the financial challenges we will face, and we need to do it quickly. the french presidency, as i have said, will do everything in its power and will use all its energy to increase the necessary coordination and adaptation of the rules in this area. there must, of course, be - and there is - coordination between the european central bank, the ministers for economic affairs and finance and the commission in this area. it's more important than ever. we must find concrete answers to this and we must also anticipate the consequences that this crisis will have on the financing of the economy, on the economy. we're already seeing the first signs. and here too, and this is an essential element of confidence, innovative and important measures must be adopted in favour, in particular, of small and mediumsized enterprises. as regards the external relations aspects, which have been raised by president saryusz-wolski and mrs isler béguin, i would like to reply to president wolski that the european council will, as i have already said, have as its priority the definition of very precise guidelines and guidelines on energy security and solidarity. one crisis must not hide another. we had an energy crisis three months ago. it's still there. countries were dependent on other countries for energy supplies. it still stands. we must have a european energy policy that is real, and here too we have come too late and we must move quickly. as regards belarus, i wanted to tell president wolski that there will be a troika meeting on the sidelines of the general affairs council and that we will therefore be meeting the belarusian authorities. as you know, and as president wolski has stressed, we have expressed our concerns about the conduct of the elections. we are not satisfied with that. we will say so, but at the same time there is a discussion in the council about the possible relaxation of certain sanctions, in particular the visa bans against some of the belarusian officials who are the subject of the sanctions. we are still considering these developments in the council. i liked the formula you used, mr president, concerning the conflict between russia and georgia. we must indeed win peace and make sure that georgia wins it. this gives me an opportunity to reply to mrs isler béguin. we will hold a high-level conference on the evening of october 14 and october 15. the european union is also very happy that the situation in abkhazia and south ossetia - which i have to thank mrs isler béguin for, but which she knows very well - remains extremely isolated, because it is an unacceptable act that has been condemned very strongly by the european union and the presidency. as regards the pact on immigration, i would like to reply to mrs flautre - but i am sure that mrs isler béguin will share my observations with her - that what is changing in this pact is that there is better coordination, better harmonisation, particularly as regards asylum applications, as regards applications made by migrants. the pact clarifies the status of migrants, and this is a step forward for them. we are indeed in favour of a pragmatic vision, of a balanced approach, of an approach which can be read in the context of an enlargement of the schengen balances. the demographic crisis, the demographic challenge is also one of the challenges we must address under the french presidency. finally - and this is crucial, because it sums up everything - there is an interdependence between these crises too. these crises are linked. the economic and financial crisis is the most visible. but three months ago, it was an energy crisis. we are also facing a food crisis, a crisis of an external dimension. i repeat, to respond to these crises, to respond to these challenges, we need more europe, more coordination, more decision-making capacity, more readability and responsiveness. the answer to that is more institution. and the answer to that is that there are more institutions, and that is the lisbon treaty. we must ensure that this treaty enters into force as soon as possible. we must find a solution with our irish friends. we will work to ensure that by the end of the year we have a political solution to this institutional problem, which is urgently needed in view of the challenges we face and which we have discussed throughout the afternoon.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin with the end of mr jouyet's speech. as president barroso said in his opening speech, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is an imperative for progress in the construction of europe, and in particular at a time like the one we are living in now. some of the honourable members have mentioned aspects of external action, of the common foreign and security policy: georgia. the treaty of lisbon will enable us to increase the effectiveness and intensity of our action on issues as important for our own security and for the defence of our values beyond our borders as is the case with georgia and others. some of them have rightly mentioned the importance of the debates on energy and climate change which are to take place in the european council. the french presidency supports the commission's ambitious package of proposals, which we hope will be adopted, agreed and put into effect. the lisbon treaty will give the european institutions - not just the commission - enhanced powers to tackle this important challenge. some of the honourable members have rightly mentioned immigration, the pact for immigration, a commendable initiative of the french presidency, together with some other member states. the commission has also made proposals over the years on immigration which have been discussed and adopted or are being discussed and adopted by parliament and the council. once again, the lisbon treaty will allow the european union to move towards a common immigration policy which is essential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with you, with the presidency and, of course, with the president of the commission in his opening statement, that we must strengthen the concerted action of all those in europe who have responsibilities. there are responsibilities in the commission, there is no doubt, there are responsibilities in the council, there are responsibilities in parliament, there are responsibilities in the member states, in the supervisors and in the central banks. we all have to act in a coordinated way. each in his responsibility. everyone has their responsibilities. the commission has been developing initiatives for a year now, since the beginning of the crisis, to take a medium-term view of the future of our financial system, as discussed and agreed by the council and the commission at the informal council in porto and at ecofin last october. but the commission is also actively participating in the short-term, urgent, essential measures which form part of the conclusions of yesterday's ecofin council, including a commitment to improve deposit guarantee systems, which are seriously affected, not by the insecurity of deposits of financial institutions, but by some unilateral initiatives with their negative impacts in other countries. the commission is also cooperating and working to develop and implement the principles set out yesterday in the ecofin conclusions, which are essential as regards the way in which the difficult situations of each financial institution should be dealt with: by recapitalisation and, in some cases, by other instruments. the commission is working - and president barroso has said so - to move more rapidly than we were moving so far in a european-wide, cross-border surveillance, which we obviously need. we have all experienced the need for such mechanisms. the commission, the council and parliament are today welcoming the rapid action of the european central bank and other central banks, with a coordinated reduction in interest rates which should alleviate some of the market tensions. i fully agree with mr purvis's statement on the need to take measures, within the responsibilities of each individual, to facilitate the recovery of the interbank market. it is essential. we cannot imagine that, looking ahead, only central banks will be a source of liquidity in the functioning of the financial system and, of course, the commission - and i am responding in particular to a speech by mrs in't veld - has said - and has said it before the heads of state and government meeting in paris last saturday, and said it again yesterday at the ecofin meeting - that the treaty, when it regulates state aid, has sufficient clauses and provisions to deal with the respect for competition and the rules on state aid in a situation such as the present one with flexibility. and today, today or tomorrow, my colleague, commissioner kroes, will make public - as she announced yesterday at the ecofin council - guidelines on how the commission sees the flexibility margins of the treaty being used in this particular area, but avoiding discrimination between one solution and another, between one aid and another. he will also refer - and some of his colleagues have also mentioned this - to the implementation of the stability and growth pact. we reviewed it in 2005 and since then - i think i said it here the other day too - the consensus on the implementation of the revised pact has been total, one hundred percent, and yesterday, again, the ecofin council, as last saturday at the paris meeting, unanimously agreed that the current pact, as revised in 2005 - and this parliament also took part in that debate and in that consensus - has sufficient room for manoeuvre to deal with situations that are beginning to occur - and that unfortunately will continue to occur, such as the increase in public deficits - within the framework of the established rules, and not by setting aside the established rules. and that was clear in paris on saturday, it was clear yesterday at ecofin, it is clear here in today's debate, and i assure you that the commission will make sure that it is clear from now on, even though we are going to be living in very difficult circumstances, not only in the financial system but also in the real economy. tomorrow we're going to washington for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund. the international monetary fund's forecasts are again revised downwards. our forecasts for the next few weeks are going to be revised down. and this is not just an economic forecasting exercise, a theoretical exercise; unfortunately, this means less growth, less employment, more stressful situations on the labour market and, together with the inflationary pressure we are still suffering, although it has moderated in the last two months, it means a loss of purchasing power and difficulties for ordinary citizens. but that should not lead us to forget the medium term. it must not lead us to forget lessons learned in past crises. i think that in that spirit the vast majority of the speeches i have heard this afternoon reinforce, adhere to and agree with the consensus we reached yesterday - and i think it was a positive consensus, a very positive consensus - at the ecofin in luxembourg.
in writing. – on 24 september i was asking in a written statement if europe is prepared to absorb the shock induced by its indissoluble link with the us market and if the eur 36.3 billion injected into the market by the ecb and bank of england is enough to make the danger disappear. a few days later fortis bank and dexia bank were also caught in the stream of the financial crises. furthermore, iceland’s banking system hit the ground (culminating with acquisition by the government of glitnir bank) and the uk government announced further money infusion (gbp 200 billion) in its economy. the events that have occurred so far provided an answer to my question that was posted as a rhetorical one. now, what is going to happen next? we know by now the financial institutions that were hit. the big ones. what we do not know is who else was hit and keeps the thrash hidden. what about the dozens of regional us banks who were involved in lending easy money in the housing sector? what about the european banks who could not stay far from investing in all kind of us exotic financial instruments that invaded the markets this decade?
in writing. the current global financial crisis, in addition to its transnational character, risks creating a state of major panic very quickly, not only in the financial-banking and economic world, but also among ordinary european citizens. i believe that, more than the seriousness of the economic phenomenon, which must be kept under financial and economic control, the danger of panic among the european citizens is of a far more serious nature and the effects of which will be remedied over a much longer period of time. that is why i am publicly calling on you, mr president, to do everything you can to resolve the current economic and financial crisis directly, immediately and effectively, and to act in public view so that the european public can feel protected by this european union, which was created precisely to provide a framework for protection in cases of extreme emergency. if we do not succeed in building european trust and solidarity now, there is a danger that everything that has been built up over 50 years will disappear in a single day.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am going to use this moment just to say a few words on issues which seem to frame the public debate on regulation and supervision. firstly, free markets are not synonymous with no regulations. a lax monetary policy can lead to higher inflation and eventually to recession but cannot by itself cause the meltdown of a financial system. the features of the financial system that have brought the threat of collapse are structural traits of the new financial system. the root cause of this crisis is an inadequately regulated financial system. mortgages are not toxic per se; badly constructed securities based on them are toxic. the packaging of financial products can bring a lot of opacity to markets. compensation schemes that make behaviour irresponsible: that is toxic. misleading models are toxic; extreme leveraging is bad. not to address these problems would be terribly wrong. not all financial innovation is benign. it is baffling therefore to hear that fresh regulation is bad because it would stifle financial innovation. building up proper regulation and supervision is not about bringing in socialism. it is about what kind of market economies we want to live in. that may lead to the recreation of elements of state capitalism, i agree, and that is for discussion. relying on industry-led initiatives is quite insufficient, for such initiatives frequently serve vested interests. why is it that we fail to learn from previous crises? clearly, vested interests can have a long arm and try to influence regulations and supervision, including the behaviour of people like us. do moral values matter? yes, i believe they do matter. the mess that we are in today is also because some believed that moral values do not matter in business. regulators and supervisors should understand that there are systemic risks. they should always be alert to financial stability. strains and crises cannot be entirely avoided, but we can limit the damage they cause. we need comprehensive answers to crises and genuine coordination among the eu, us and other major financial centres, particularly during bad times.
member of the commission. − madam president, can i briefly respond to a few points made. one relates to the previous debate, referred to by mr purvis. i was not invited to the previous debate. i would seldom pass up an opportunity of coming to the european parliament to hear regular fans of mine on the left praise my contribution to all things european. i could never miss an opportunity to hear people as eminent as mr schulz and mrs berès and many others speak about me in such glowing terms, so if i had been invited i would have gladly been here. regarding european solutions, i should like to give two examples. my predecessor initiated an item regarding pay; this was issued in the form of a recommendation, which is possibly the one of the softest instruments that the eu has at its disposal. that was the only chance it had of having anything accepted, because the competence in this regard lies with member states. we produced a report about a year and a half ago, but only one member state has implemented most of the recommendations. the others have, by and large, ignored it. the member state that implemented it – to give credit where credit is due – was holland. i am not saying it has implemented every exact letter of it, but it is the only member state that has gone down that particular road. so a european solution was there. a lot of comment is being made at the present time about the bonus culture and executive remuneration. we tried to come forward with a type of european solution, which was put forward by mr bolkestein – i think it was technically me who put it into effect but i give credit to mr bolkestein for initiating it. that is what we did, and that is what our report shows. secondly, regarding supervision – the main subject of this report – i have spoken on many occasions in the parliament and elsewhere about the issue of the cross-border supervision of financial institutions. i have spoken at ecofin and at press conferences. it is practically impossible to move forward on this particular issue because member states do not want us to have a european solution to this. however, i should like to point something out to members of the european parliament. last year i initiated the solvency ii proposal regarding insurance, and advanced the idea of colleges of supervisors, group supervision and group support. both in the council of ministers and in the negotiations with the european parliament, it has been watered down considerably. if we are to get this directive through in the lifetime of this particular legislature, a lot of heavy lifting will have to be done with the council of ministers because there are large divergences, not only on those particular items but on other items as well. although i have been in politics for all of my adult life, and have ceased to be amazed at contradictory positions that politicians may adopt – and no doubt, if you look over my long political career, you might find some of them as well – i still find it totally ironic and amazing that, when we advocate a european solution, for example regarding supervision to do with solvency ii, the people who advocate european responses – both ministers and members of the european parliament – are often the same people who come back and lobby for their own national state positions when a particular piece of legislation comes before them. those of us who were brought up in the catholic religion know the prayer of saint augustine which says more or less, ‘make me pure, but not just yet’. it is a bit similar here. this does not surprise me because i have been a politician for all of my adult life so i am used to that type of irony, to put it in its politest terms. be that as it may, there are only 44 or 45 cross-border financial institutions and we have a supervisory system which is way out of date for such operations. finally, may i make this point regarding the current crisis, which i have spoken about here and in other forums including press conferences. there is not one single magic bullet solution to all of this. if there had been, it would have been found long ago. these are unprecedented times and unprecedented responses have been given, both on this side of the atlantic and in the united states. can i just remind members here – and i am sure president barroso did so as well in his contribution – that we in the european commission do our best to coordinate and encourage member states to give a total response. but, as i said in my opening remarks, these responsibilities lie with member states, with member states’ central bankers and with member states’ ministries, because they are the elected people. they are the people who are in control of taxpayers’ monies and they are the people who must give the responses. we have attempted – and we have succeeded somewhat – to get a european response in some of these particular areas. may i finally make the point that we must remember the structure of europe. we are not a federation like the united states. we are not a central government, as found in the 27 member states, and therefore we can only act to the limit of the powers that are given to us.
rapporteur. − madam president, let me say something which, in my view, has not been properly outlined. regulation and supervision is not only about the building; it is about the object: what we regulate and supervise – and that is the crux of the matter. we could have had an independent, eu-wide oversight body regulating in europe and we would still have experienced the eruption of the crisis, because the problem is that the flaw lies in the financial system, not necessarily in the non-existence of a unique body of oversight and supervision. secondly, we are going to experience a very severe recession. we have to recapitalise the banks, and this will cost a huge amount of money. it is going to put tremendous pressure on public budgets, and i am asking myself – because we have to look at the broad picture – what is going to happen. i think that the current crisis shows that the size of the eu budget is nothing when the time comes to intervene and do something, so we have to rethink the eu budget. (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. the financial crisis that has engulfed almost the entire planet must be analysed at the level of the european union institutions. it is unacceptable that the world's youngest territorial organisation, the european union, cannot intervene in identifying a solution acceptable to all parties and insists on the creation of rapid action instruments, as defined by the ec's high-level study group. we are living in unprecedented historical times. we are on the verge of a financial collapse that threatens the eu's stated objectives, both for the 27 member states and for the rest of the world. every moment lost in administrative and bureaucratic procedures means huge losses to the international banking system, to the financial markets of all continents, and to the deterioration of the standard of living for all inhabitants. europe is obliged to take a stand and become a flagship in the fight to stop the current financial crisis. we now need to demonstrate the functionality of the system and the european institutions, we need coordination and collaboration between the governments of the member states, the european commission and the european parliament. we have the maturity and expertise to intervene in a situation that is dangerous for the future of the european union, but also for the future of humanity.
madam president, i want to warn against a policy which tends to reward the belarusian leadership in compensation for decisions of the russian leadership which we do not like. it is simply wishful thinking to believe that in this way we can generate a rift between moscow and minsk, or change the political orientation of president lukashenko. we should also not offer words for the liberation of prisoners who should not have been arrested. indeed, the european union must avoid the isolation of belarus and engage in dialogue with the leadership of the country. to this end, it must put in place a motivating package which should convince the regime, and the ordinary citizens who innocently support it, that the european union could contribute to improving the life of the belarusian people. on the other hand, any opening should be gradual, conditional, mutual and focused on principally bringing profit to society and not to the leadership. mr lukashenko stated that opposition is good in any country but not an opposition supported 100% from abroad. the problem is that the opposition in belarus could not survive because it is crushed by the regime. therefore we must not abandon the democratic opposition.
ladies and gentlemen, i want to take this opportunity to plead once again for greater involvement of the european union in improving health services in the member states of the european union. it is very true that the organisation of the health system is a matter for the member states, but the european community also has some powers, and the important role of the european community in the field of health has been reaffirmed in the lisbon reform treaty. the union's population is ageing, it is facing new threats: pandemics, physical and biological incidents, bioterrorism, to which we must all find solutions together. in addition, a mechanism for structured cooperation between member states, a mechanism for the exchange of information and good practice in the prevention, control and treatment of diseases in the countries of the european union should be developed. the directive on cross-border healthcare was a very good initiative. but i think it should be followed by other equally bold initiatives to improve the performance of the health system, because an important role we should be playing at european level is to achieve the goal of reducing health inequalities.
mr president, in romania we are unfortunately faced with a serious problem that endangers the safety and health of european citizens: the use in hospitals of sterile surgical thread imported from china. the romanian ministry of health had been aware of the problem since august, but despite warnings that it could cause illness or even death, it did not stop it in time. the alarm was raised after a patient died in hospital from an infection and other patients were in danger. i think this is a wake-up call not only for romania, but for the whole of europe. it is extremely serious that more and more products imported from china are raising questions and endangering the health and safety of european citizens. not long ago we had a problem with contaminated sweets from milk powder with melanin, also imported from china. we import products from china because they are cheaper, but i think europe should put the health of its citizens first. i ask commissioner vassiliou to launch an investigation to prevent any further incidents in the member states. we need urgent measures to verify these products to stop imports on the domestic market in time.
member of the commission. − madam president, could i first try to describe our huge disappointment after ten days of intensive negotiations in geneva. we felt that we were so close to being able to strike a deal on agriculture and nama, knowing very well that at the very end this would be the single undertaking that would determine whether the european union could consider a package to be acceptable. as the person responsible for agriculture, i must say it was extremely encouraging that for the first time ever european agriculture was not blamed for the failure of the discussions. the reason was that we have actually been doing our homework in the agricultural sector by reforming our common agricultural policy, first with the big reform in 2003 and then all the reforms after that period. so we were able to deliver an 80% reduction in trade-distorting domestic support, without actually damaging our agricultural sector. we had the possibility here to also lock the reforms into the multilateral trading system. it was not an agreement at any cost. it was a balanced agreement within those two areas. we could justify to the council that we were negotiating within the mandate given by the council to the negotiators. for agriculture, this mandate was simply not to force us into a new reform within the agricultural sector. i agree with those of you who have said that the multilateral system is important and necessary, because of the fact that it is only within the multilateral system that we can discipline, for example, trade-distorting domestic support and all other non-trade concerns. this can never be done in bilateral negotiations, so we have to stick to the values of the multilateral system. i also have to say that in these negotiations we never targeted the market of the developing countries. quite the opposite, actually, which was why the ssm was so important, as i said in my first intervention, in sheltering special products in the developing countries. i would like to add that we introduced the ‘everything-but-arms’ agreement back in 2002, which means that the european union today is by far the biggest importer of agricultural commodities worldwide. we are bigger than canada, the united states, australia and japan all together. so we have actually opened up our markets in the agricultural sector to these countries. food security has been mentioned here tonight as well. we have to realise that food security consists both of domestic internal production and of imports. if we look at the european union’s agricultural sector, we would never be able to be as strong as we are today if we had a closed market in agriculture. we have today, if i could take the country of the presidency, eur 7 billion in surplus trade in agricultural commodities. if we imagine that we closed our markets, we would never be able to sell all our high-quality products internally because we would be punished if we protected ourselves. others would do the same, which would prevent us from taking advantage of the emerging and increasingly open market opportunities for our high-quality products. so, of course we need a balanced approach. geographical indications (gis) were mentioned, but i did not raise this in my first intervention because of the time pressure and the chair’s very strong hand on time limits. gis are a crucial issue for the european union and we made it totally clear to the other negotiating partners that we would never be able to sign a deal if we did not have a positive outcome on geographical indications because this is so important, especially for high quality mediterranean products. i will reply briefly to mrs mcguinness. i do agree with you that we have actually been under-prioritising our development aid in the agricultural sector for decades. now that we see prices – not commodity prices, as it is right that prices have been going down today, but the prices of seeds and fertilisers – skyrocketing, we have suggested our facility to try and help the least developed countries, the poorest countries in the world, and put them in a position to buy seeds and fertilisers. this eur 1 billion facility is now being discussed here in parliament, and i hope that there will be a positive approach to this possibility of helping developing countries feed their own people and avoid migration from rural areas to the cities. please keep this in mind. it is very important.
in writing. – the failure of the doha trade round could be a harbinger of things to come, at a time when the deepening financial crisis puts tremendous strain on governments’ ability to play by the rules. benefits of free trade have been hailed against the backdrop of increasingly global markets. but free trade has to be fair and complemented by an international regime that helps poor countries develop. increasingly unequal incomes in wealthy economies and their fear of the rising power of some emerging economies are triggering bouts of protectionism. likewise, the struggle to control exhaustible resources and obtain basic commodities at affordable prices raises the propensity to restrict trade in many countries. one needs to mention here the increasingly complicated nature of geopolitics. the eu has to take the lead in mitigating the fallout from the current crises, in terms of preventing a collapse, de facto, of the multilateral trade and financial system. this lead includes, among other things, a reform of the ifis, involving the emerging global powers (brics) in dealing with global economic issues and a reform of the international architecture regulating the flow of finance. at end of the 19th century an international system that promoted free movement of goods and capital broke down and was followed by a devastating war in europe. we should remember this.
in writing. climate change can irreversibly affect all the planet's water resources and therefore adapting all compartments of socio-economic life to counteract the effects of water scarcity is essential. the european and international legislative frameworks offer effective leverage, but we need real progress in the accelerated practical implementation of all the measures envisaged, first of all those in the convention to combat desertification and those in the water framework directive, whose far too long implementation deadlines put the sustainability of resource security at risk. i call on the commission and the member states, through the active involvement of all relevant bodies and local authorities, to accelerate the process of transparent and coherent water use charging, based on the 'user pays' principle and eliminating losses from the networks. i also call for urgent implementation of concrete measures for the rational use of water bodies, especially those in which hydroelectric power stations are built and, in particular, the rivers that cool nuclear power stations, since the irrational use, combined with the sharp decline in flows, can lead to the closure of many clean electricity production facilities and, consequently, to the destabilisation of the european energy system, with major risks to the energy security of the union.
in writing. i wanted to speak because i am a member of parliament from the south of romania, an area that has been facing severe drought in recent years. the last one, in 2007, affected over 80% of households in my region, ialomiţa. i believe that this phenomenon can be reduced, that we can achieve results if we also treat it from the perspective of development, regional development. member states should be vigilant with regard to sensitive watersheds with water shortages, but especially with regard to the authorisation of economic activities in these sensitive areas. when allocating funds to water infrastructure, priority should be given to those that include clean technologies, that use water efficiently and that have considered risk prevention measures. i also believe that both the commission and the member states must promote a culture of water conservation in europe, based on management rules acquired through education. water scarcity is one of the new challenges. it has so far affected 11% of the european population and 17% of the union's territory. cohesion policy must meet this challenge. i would like to conclude by adding something else that we also urgently need to achieve results: the optimisation of the use of the solidarity fund and the civil protection cooperation mechanism.
in writing. water scarcity and drought have become major problems both within the european union and globally, especially in the context of climate change which has aggravated the situation. these have adverse side effects on biodiversity, water and soil quality and increase the risk of forest fires, as demonstrated by the devastating fires that have recently engulfed southern europe. in south-east europe, subsidies from the common agricultural policy have led to an increase in water consumption, which is why it is necessary to encourage total decoupling of aid and support for water management in rural development programmes. at the same time, the continuous increase in current demand for biofuels is forcing us to adapt production and other economic activities to the amount of water available locally. to find solutions to these problems, the transition to an economy based on efficient use and saving of water is a top priority. the introduction of water tariffs to stimulate rational use of water, the achievement of the objectives of the water framework directive and the correlation with other sectoral water policies must be reflected in actions to be undertaken in the future.
in writing. undeclared work is a phenomenon found in all eu member states and is a worrying feature of the european economic market, which is contrary to the principles of flexicurity. the fight against undeclared work is in some ways like the duel between microsoft and hackers. the more innovative our methods of combating undeclared work are, the more effective the fireworks employers use. and the best example is the emergence of 'grey work', where employers prefer to conclude employment contracts at the guaranteed minimum wage, the other side, up to the real wage, being paid 'black'. in romania, the phenomenon has taken on a particular scale, with grey work now accounting for 20 to 50% of total employment. worryingly, while early adopters of this method were found in microenterprises, today established names evade taxes and social security contributions and drive the employee toward a very small pension, which will put him on the brink of poverty. i have highlighted these aspects because the future strategy to combat undeclared work mentioned in the report must take into account the specificities of each member state. a unified european approach is needed, and effective collaboration between government agencies, labour inspectorates and the social partners.
in writing. nine years after the launch of the concept of 'decent work', half the world's workforce earns less than $2 a day, and the employment rate of women, relative to the whole population, was 49% in 2007, compared to the employment rate of men, which was 74.3%. in romania, only 15% of the total workforce has decent jobs, and the number of women at risk of poverty is about 10% higher than that of men. the pay gap is evident, with men earning more than women in most economic activities, with the monthly difference being about 1/3 of the country's minimum basic wage. the international labour organisation's study released on international women's day makes it clear that europe can no longer afford to ignore the potential of women and that access to the labour market and decent jobs is crucial to achieving gender equality. access to decent work for all citizens must be a priority of member states' employment policies, as it is the basic mechanism for social inclusion and the only sustainable solution to combating poverty.
in writing. road transport services account for 1.6% of gdp and provide jobs for 4.5 million eu citizens. the economy and society as a whole depend heavily on the efficiency of road transport, with 44% of goods being transported by truck and 85% of people using car, bus or coach. i consider that in order to comply with the legal provisions on social conditions, member states must invest in road transport infrastructure and must take the necessary measures to ensure the right level of investment for the development of road transport infrastructure. in this context, the construction of safe parking places should be a priority. in order to avoid artificial barriers to the free movement of goods, i have asked, by way of an amendment, for a report on the situation of traffic controls in each member state to be submitted to the european parliament by the commission. to the extent that there are types of controls that restrict the free movement of goods or persons, i have asked the commission to re-evaluate existing legislation and propose an amendment to it to ensure a uniform system of traffic controls.
the symbols of the european union assert its identity and can be decisive elements for communicating with the public and for its emotional attachment to the european institutions. parliament recognises and adopts the following symbols of the union: the flag, which is a circle of twelve gold stars on a blue background, the anthem, which is taken from the 'ode to joy' in ludwig van beethoven's ninth symphony and the motto 'united in diversity'. the flag is flown on all parliament grounds and at official events. by introducing the rules on the use of european union symbols in the european parliament into parliament's rules of procedure, parliament is sending a strong political signal. parliament celebrates europe day on 9 may, which is a day of national pride. i propose that the european parliament organise an annual europe day competition for young people to show how they see the future of europe and, above all, how they want to contribute to making this future a reality.
in writing. – the european union is without any doubt at a crossroads in its evolution, when it is of the utmost importance to acknowledge the need to move forward by tackling all the current complex issues that potentially could stalemate the dynamics of the european integration process. in this process, the european symbols are a crucial linking element for developing a positive identity at european level, complementary to and not replacing well-established national identities. the absence of the european symbols in the rejected lisbon treaty was most regrettable from the point of view of the critical democratic deficit currently confronting the european union. the claim that their inclusion in the lisbon treaty would be inappropriate turned out to be profoundly unrealistic for there is no doubt that they would not pose any peril to the concepts on which the eu was built. thus, in order to increase the popular support for and commitment to the european union in the forthcoming years, it is imperative to maintain and adjust these symbolic elements, so as to bind the european institutions and decision-making processes to acknowledgement of the ‘demos’ factor.
to respond to the major health challenges facing the european union, we need action plans that include health promotion, public education and disease prevention programmes, especially those related to diet, obesity, alcohol, drug and tobacco use. the detection, early diagnosis and appropriate treatment of chronic diseases, especially cancer, will ensure the quality of life of people affected by these diseases. the exchange of good practice within the european union in all areas of healthcare will therefore contribute to the improvement of citizens' well-being and health. it considers it important to promote healthy lifestyles in families, schools and the workplace in order to establish a healthy lifestyle and promote healthy ageing, both now and in the future. we must take special care of the interests of children by drawing up provisions on maternity and parental leave, taking into account the effects of the presence of parents on the physical and mental development of children. equally important is improving the health care system for pregnant women and informing them about the effects of tobacco and alcohol consumption.
in writing. it is gratifying that the european parliament has adopted the european commission's white paper together for health: a strategic approach for the eu 2008-2013. beyond the provisions on the health strategy, i note a drawback of the charter: the absence of quantifiable objectives to ensure its increased effectiveness. as the representative of a country with a poor quality healthcare system, reflected in a worrying state of health of the population, i would like to stress the importance of the charter's implementation in practice, but also the need for greater solidarity at the level of the european union to provide all its citizens with decent healthcare. romania holds many sad records in health. it is the eu's number one in tuberculosis and the penultimate in the quality of diabetes treatment, with diabetes being the most risky disease. one in ten romans suffer from liver disease. a quarter of the children have health problems. cancer mortality is rising alarmingly compared to the rest of the eu. the mortality rate from cardiovascular causes is 61% of all deaths, and in the eu 37%. romania is the european champion in prescriptions, hospitalisations and surgeries, but also the country with the lowest life expectancy in the eu.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the peterle report addresses and underlines the urgent need to take active measures to recruit and retain healthcare staff. according to the world health organization, the migration of two percent of a country's medical practitioners is code red for the authorities. in romania, 4% of romanian doctors applied for documents to go abroad to work, with the same proportion recorded throughout 2007. so not only have we passed this code red level, we've reached double the percentage. from the beginning of the year to september 1, 2008, 957 people applied for certificates of moral integrity from the college of doctors of romania (cmr) in order to work abroad. clearly, a health system cannot function without doctors. i believe that this phenomenon is of concern not only for romania but for the whole of europe, and the issue of the lack of qualified people to treat european patients should be of the utmost concern to the member states, but also to the union.
in writing. health is one of the most important values in people's lives. the alarming increase in cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and obesity, despite advances in the treatment of these diseases, is a major problem we face. the problems of overweight, as well as undernutrition, poor diet and hiv/aids, are health-threatening challenges in the european union. the differences in cancer survival are so great between the new and the old eu countries that we can speak of an 'iron curtain on health'. the european union must strengthen its actions to reduce inequalities between member states, in particular by exchanging good practice in different areas, as well as by promoting public education for better health care, by supporting innovation in health systems, and by proposing implementation mechanisms for structured cooperation between eu institutions. we need to define core health values, an eu health indicator system and ways to reduce health inequalities. we need to invest in health, we need to take measures to promote health at all ages, we need to take measures on tobacco, food, alcohol and other factors that affect health.
co-rapporteur. − mr president, also as an acknowledgement of the frantic search by eu member states to rescue the banking system, but not in a sufficiently coordinated way, we have thought that it makes sense to introduce this amendment. it reads: ‘whereas the increasing cross-border nature of banking in europe and the need to respond in a coordinated way to adverse shocks, as well as the need to deal with systemic risks effectively, require divergences between the national regimes of member states to be reduced to the greatest extent possible; whereas there is a need to move beyond the studies that the european commission has already carried out in this regard and to amend directive 94/19/ec as soon as possible to provide the same level of protection for bank deposits across the whole european union in order to preserve financial stability and depositors’ confidence and avoid distortions of competition’.
in writing. − on 8 february 2009, a referendum will be held in switzerland on the extension of the free movement agreement with the european union and its extension to romania and bulgaria. according to swiss parties, the referendum is meant to stop the 'uncontrolled mass immigration' from romania and bulgaria. switzerland held a similar referendum in september 2005, following the 2004 enlargement wave. fortunately, the result of this referendum was positive. we should not dispute the right of any state to hold a referendum, but i think that each of the member states must be sure that the european union will be in solidarity, whatever the outcome of that consultation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation of mr marian jean marinescu (a 6-0343/2008) on the following grounds: 'every citizen of the european union has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states'. article 45 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union provides for this, and the treaty of rome stated as early as 1957 that 'any discrimination on grounds of nationality is prohibited'. as new member states of the european union, it is only natural that both bulgaria and romania should participate in the signature of the protocol to the ec/switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons, benefit from its provisions and enjoy the same rights as all european states. otherwise, there could be no true 'european citizenship' in accordance with the maastricht treaty (1993).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this document has an important role to play in establishing the european information system on criminal records by creating technical and practical means to ensure the exchange of information between member states. however, i believe that the text voted on can be improved in the future (after the temporary use of the s-tesa administrative communications network) by using the european judicial network communications system for the following reasons:- the european parliament, by adopting the kaufmann report, supported the creation of a modern and secure telecommunications network for the european judicial network; - information on criminal records falls within the scope of the european judicial network serving the judiciary in the member states; - significant savings will be made by using a single communications network; - the use of a single system for legal communications will ensure that interested parties have access to the necessary information quickly, securely and in an integrated, user-friendly manner.
in writing. - i voted for the report on speeding up the fight against undeclared work, because the phenomenon of undeclared work is a pressing problem throughout the community. the spread of black labor is largely the result of excessive taxation and bureaucracy, leading to a significant decrease in tax revenues and, by implication, under-filling of the budget. moreover, informal hiring also encourages unfair competition. in this context, in addition to the increased attention that the authorities should pay to reducing taxes on the labour market and cutting red tape, i stress the need to stimulate new job creation and to regulate temporary and casual employment flexibly.
in writing. − i congratulate the rapporteur on the extremely well-surprised aspects of the process of active social inclusion, which is why i voted in favour of the material under debate. to make this inclusion more effective, i would like to mention some aspects which i have found appropriate from the point of view of the learning process, because i believe that the most stable training should provide young people with this organized and coherent way of socio-professional development. i stress this point because a high percentage of unemployment is held by young graduates. i believe that a unified approach at the level of the education systems in the eu27 is desirable, but also a focus on the process of recognition of diplomas and professional certificates, including language training, to remove communication barriers in the european area. the establishment of a coherent approach to the monitoring of future graduates and their practical preparation for the labour market, through job boards organised on regional, not just national, criteria, would also be welcome, with a view to improving job dynamics within the eu.
in writing. - as social democrats we are concerned that the suspension of the doha round of world trade organisation negotiations could affect the achievement of the millennium declaration goals. in the current context of economic, financial and food crises, it is essential to support a multilateral system that ensures credible and fair trade. in this context, it is important that the european parliament actively participates in international trade negotiations in the spirit of the lisbon treaty. romania supports the conclusion of a round ensuring balance across the whole package but also within each sector, such as agriculture and industrial products.
in writing. − we voted for this report in the belief that putting the recommendations into practice will increase life expectancy in the european union and help us meet the lisbon objectives for economic growth. the report captures the essential link between poor enforcement of eu environmental legislation and the negative consequences for citizens' quality of life. the fight to reduce the health impacts of climate change must also be supported by active climate change adaptation policies. an example of this is the development of methodologies to predict and prevent major health problems that may arise depending on the severity of the effects of climate change, taking into account socio-economic circumstances. efforts must be stepped up to meet the target proposed by the commission in 2005 of reducing the number of deaths caused by air pollution by 40% by 2020. studies have shown that two out of every five deaths worldwide are directly or indirectly linked to environmental factors. i congratulate the reporter.
mr president, the real test for any institutional structure, including the eu, is in time of crisis, and we are in a time of crisis. the integration of the so-called new members is not complete, the treaty of lisbon is not yet ratified by all member states and our dependence on imported energy is increasing. unfortunately, although indispensable, common action often comes slowly and with difficulty, because members prefer the individual approach. if we let the latter prevail over the former, our union is in great danger – irrespective of the moral aspect that those who have benefited most from it have more obligation to see that it gets stronger and not weaker. and the same goes for nato too. now, more than ever, we need common analyses, common perceptions, common positions and common action with regard to the increasing challenges we are confronted with. let us do this so we will not be accused of wasting the most remarkable example of successful cooperation on a continent ravaged by wars for too long.
last week's european commission legislative proposal on illegal logging should have been a great victory for all those who have campaigned against illegal logging over time. but the commission has chosen to tackle a real problem with a minimalist and even fanciful solution. there is no standard on the legality of timber, suppliers do not have to prove the legality of products, and possession and trade of timber are not recognised as criminal offences. if everyone can create standards as they please and there is no independent public monitoring mechanism, then the european union is only encouraging current illegal practices. it is a shame to congratulate each other and to say that we have done a good job when, in fact, the control of the legality of wood on the eu market remains very lax. the european parliament must take a more ambitious stance in the fight to stop uncontrolled deforestation. i therefore call on my colleagues from all the political groups to work together to significantly improve the commission's proposal. only through a clear and effective law will we send a strong message to suppliers that we do not tolerate the trade in illegal timber in the eu.
multilingualism and intercultural dialogue do not exclude the possibility of people from the same culture and language meeting and forming international organisations and consultative bodies. the international organization of francophones promotes political, cultural and economic cooperation among nearly 200 million french-speaking people in 55 member countries on five continents. since 1936, the world jewish congress has coordinated the interests of its members in 100 countries. there is also a world association of jewish parliamentary representatives. it also operates a romanian cross-border section within the romanian ministry of foreign affairs. the forum of carpathian basin representatives was also established for the same purpose. the political representatives of the hungarian people, scattered in 8 countries, meet once a year to discuss the problems of their communities, their countries, their future. it is not compatible with european standards that any community - be it french, jewish, romanian or hungarian - should be attacked for its peaceful interests, as is happening these days in slovakia. thank you, sir.
the ten-t network faces major challenges today. on the one hand, some of the 30 priority projects have been delayed due to lack of funding from the member states concerned, and on the other hand, since 2005, the ten-t network has been extended to integrate european transport with that of the union's neighbouring states. the recent commission seminar has effectively opened the series of debates and consultations on the 2010 revision of the ten-t priority projects list. i believe that high-speed trains should connect bucharest, constanta and sofia with the other european capitals. the development of romanian ports and airports and the implementation of cross-border transport projects at the border between romania, the republic of moldova and ukraine should also be among the priority ten-t projects. the tran commission delegation that visited romania in early october also supported the need to give the danube a higher priority in the development of european transport policy.
i asked to speak to draw parliament's attention to a serious problem in the process of absorbing european funds for rural development in romania. i regret to say that the romanian authorities are systematically violating the principle of fair and transparent information of potential beneficiaries of these funds. recently, the applicant guides for two important measures of the romanian national rural development programme were launched, without a minimum promotion and information campaign, just one day before the submission of funding applications began. the bureaucratic formalities involved in the allocation of rural development funds are absolutely terrifying for any citizen. some of the documents requested require at least one month, with the correct project submission session ending at the end of that month. i believe that community legislation should impose clearer and stricter rules to avoid such situations. otherwise, the european funds will not be able to achieve their objectives.
in doing so, mr desir is doing what the latin phrase says: multum in parvum (much in little). this is how today's proposal for a directive can be described, as it guarantees the right to work even when the employee's work is temporary because of specific aspects of the work performed. i believe that, through such a measure, so-called rare and underused professions in a given job will be encouraged by their combinations by the holders of such skills and according to market demand. it's going to be a professional mosaic, provided by the same so-called homo universales of the renaissance.
i would like to congratulate mr desir. the debate is part of the steps we must take to have a european framework that can guarantee decent working and living conditions for european citizens. ensuring a minimum level of protection for temporary workers is part of building social europe. for the union to become the most competitive knowledge-based economy, european businesses must be able to choose the staff and skills they need. i personally believe that if we give temporary workers the same conditions as workers in user companies, we protect not only temporary workers but also permanent local workers. these equal conditions relate to working time, rest time, paid holidays, level of pay, status and security. ensuring fair working conditions for temporary workers eliminates black-collar work and social dumping. i personally believe that social europe will be strengthened by the participation of trade unions in the decision to grant certain derogations through collective agreements.
president of the council. - madam president, i would like to echo a number of speeches in saying that the adoption of this new directive on temporary agency workers will be a very important step forward. i've heard the term breakthrough, and it suits me very well. but that does not mean that our efforts are over, i am well aware of that. there will be further opportunities in the coming weeks to show that we know how to take social europe further. i am thinking of course of the directive on working time, which is the other part of the common position adopted on 9 june in luxembourg. i know that this text is difficult for some of you, but i would like to remind you tonight that the text you are about to adopt to strengthen the rights of temporary workers could only be approved by the council because a link was established with the directive on working time. i am also thinking of the directive on european works councils, which needs to be revised. fourteen and a half million europeans work in companies where such committees exist. they are waiting for this reform so that their social rights will be better protected in the future and, frankly, in the current economic context, this revision is more timely than ever, this revision is more necessary than ever, this revision is more urgent than ever. this dossier will be the next opportunity to show that the council and parliament want to assume their role as co-legislators. as you know, the european social partners have already shown that they are up to the challenge by presenting, at the end of the summer, eight joint proposals on the basis of which they are ready, they have said they are ready, to accept the commission's proposal, mr president. it is up to us now to show that we are just as determined to act. ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, mr commissioner, up to now the development of the temporary employment sector in europe has often been carried out in the most complete legal vacuum, without any real guarantee for workers. the day after tomorrow, we can say that this period is over. the day after tomorrow we will also be able to say that at a time when our continent is facing serious economic and financial risks, the political leaders we are want to mobilise and want to ensure that social europe is restarted.
member of the commission. i think the debate has clearly shown how important this directive is, how many workers it affects and how much progress it brings. it also demonstrated that there is indeed a strong consensus on this directive, resulting from a thorough debate and the agreement and support of the social partners. the debate also said that the directive was late, and in various languages it read 'better late than never'. in czech, it's "late, but still". i'm sure i could find similar phrases in other languages. yes, after a long effort, progress has been made, because the reason for this directive is as valid or even more valid than it was six years ago. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasize one more thing, which i think is somewhat remarkable, because this directive, a very difficult directive which really opens the door to social europe again, was adopted in a europe of 27 countries, when it had been stuck for a very long time in a europe of 15. i think this is a clear example of the capacity of a europe of 20,000 countries to make social progress. ladies and gentlemen, many of you have mentioned other directives which are being discussed in parliament. i think that the step we are taking now is a good indication of how we should approach the directives that follow. these are difficult and complicated questions, of course, but i think that a certain dynamic has already been created and that the possibility of a positive outcome is greater than ever before.
in writing. the establishment by a directive of the rights of european citizens in the case of temporary employment in eu countries is a real success for social europe. the problem is that eu countries and employers have to comply with the directive because the actual labour market examples often contradict the theory. a concrete example is the non-recognition of diplomas for romanian and bulgarian citizens after the entry of the two countries into the eu, although the directive in this area required otherwise. the question is what can be done to ensure that the confidence of citizens in new eu countries does not decline and that it is not said that one thing is approved in brussels and another is decided by the governments in european capitals. it is also necessary to take account of the fact that an economic crisis is coming, which will in any case influence the application of the labour directives in the european national areas. the european commission should establish its own system of immediate monitoring of the application of labour legislation and apply punitive measures to those countries in a non-discriminatory manner.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done. the proposal for a regulation is encouraging in that it aims to establish a clear and comprehensive legal framework covering both the rules on jurisdiction, the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the rules on the applicable law, while introducing a certain degree of autonomy for the parties. the commission proposal gives the parties the possibility of choosing by common agreement the court of jurisdiction and the applicable law. the fact that spouses have this right for the divorce procedure increases the degree of autonomy of the parties and the possibility of choosing freely according to certain criteria of choice. it is necessary to ensure that the choice made by the parties is an informed one. in other words, that the two spouses are properly informed about the practical repercussions of their choice. in this respect, it is important to consider how best to ensure that they are given full information before the act is signed. it is also necessary that access to information is guaranteed irrespective of the financial situation of the two spouses.
for the former communist countries, it's one of the forms of release from oppressive conditions that girls in this area have been subjected to, sometimes marrying for love, but more often for interest, and hence a series of kidnappings, mental, physical torture, destruction of human personality. of all the children in this whole story, the children of the marriage suffer the most. they claim ignorance of the law, but it's completely wrong. we feel that in such cases it would be advisable that, at the time of marriage, when love, understanding and friendship prevail, the terms of divorce and the children resulting from the marriage should be clearly established.
the way in which personal data is collected to prevent potential problems or incidents (mr barrot even said 'the fight against terrorists, serious crime...what will be, not what already exists') is a flagrant attack on human rights, but also a violation of legislation in this field, on the protection of personal data and the free movement of such data. we believe that when someone else is making decisions for a person, either it is acknowledged from the outset that a human right is being violated, or the agreement must stipulate that consent must be given by the individual, and only when it is appropriate, without assuming that it will be a danger to the safety of others. the medieval castle strategy we're discussing here is the opposite of the airport strategy of open and secure systems.
the decision on the establishment of the passenger data register states that this data will be transmitted in the case of flights from the union to third countries with which the european union has signed agreements on the protection of personal data. commissioner, you mentioned that some member states have already implemented the specific legislation at national level. it is important that the adoption of this legislation be carried out in a democratic way, namely with the involvement of the national parliaments. i would like to point out that the legislation of one member state in this respect also affects the citizens of other member states. for example, if a romanian citizen is required to use an international flight departing from another member state for a flight to australia, then the romanian citizen should be aware of the legislation of that member state and, in particular, give his consent to the collection and processing of his personal data. as far as i know, the european parliament should be involved through the comitology procedure in the agreements which the community signs with third countries in this respect.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs de sarnez on this very comprehensive report and its generous objectives. it is very important that this programme will help highly qualified students and academics to obtain qualifications and experience inside the european union in order to be able to satisfy the requirements of the labour market, and within the specific framework of partnership, encourage them to share their experience or qualifications upon their return to their country of origin. i want to stress that erasmus mundus will ensure a more structured international cooperation between higher-education institutes – thanks to greater mobility between the european union and third countries – improving both the accessibility and the visibility of european higher education in the world. i emphasise the fact that this programme should be implemented in line with the objectives for academic excellence and with a balanced geographical representation, avoiding certain european countries being underrepresented as well as avoiding an overrepresentation of asian students to the detriment, for instance, of students from mediterranean or acp countries.
in 2004, 2.5 million students studied abroad, and 70% of them actually studied in 6 countries. in 2007, the european union spent 1.84% of its gross domestic product on research and innovation. i would like to give you some more figures: 81% of the funds for research and development have been used in the industrial sector, and 42% of the companies in the industry are doing innovation. so if we want a competitive economy, we need researchers, master's students and doctoral students. the erasmus programme should be continued. the doctoral programme needs to be extended and more funding needs to be allocated to european participants in the programme. i would like to stress the importance attached to the study of foreign languages in the new erasmus-mundus programme. i would also like to conclude by saying that more funds should be allocated to the erasmus section for young entrepreneurs.
when we talk about erasmus mundus, we are talking about a change of mentality, a change which is achieved precisely through mobility and the exchange of views, through the promotion of multilingualism and, as the commissioner said, of interpersonal relations. erasmus mundus is important for students, doctoral students and teachers alike, because we live in a mobile europe, where each country retains its own identity, but at the same time tries to know and understand those around it. timely, accurate and professional access to information is very important for students to benefit from all the opportunities offered within the european union. i therefore tabled an amendment to this draft report calling for the establishment of a mobility centre for master's programmes, including a european erasmus mundus information portal. this programme is important first of all for promoting the values on which the european union is founded in the world and i am referring here to respect for human rights, social diversity, tolerance and last but not least, the peace we so badly need on this planet.
"as for erasmus mobility, this morning radio stations in iasi, romania, were announcing extraordinary events for wednesday. over 100 young people from over 17 countries will be celebrated in the university hall, being given a big hand by the university administration and all the young people in the community. what more do you want than such achievements by young people all over europe in the name of multiculturalism and multilingualism? i think an extension for the best students who know the most foreign languages would be welcome, and europe would have nothing to gain.
in writing. we all recognise the success of the erasmus programme in its first period of application. the amendments to it for the second phase of implementation are very good and the inclusion of third countries is a good idea. at the same time, we're noticing a low percentage of young girls participating in the program. i believe that the objectives of achieving quality higher education, personal development of european university teachers, social cohesion and the promotion of active citizenship and equality by eliminating social gender stereotypes are to be pursued within the framework of the cooperation programme. i also believe that the programme should promote access for young girls living in rural and economically disadvantaged areas, for those with learning difficulties. only in this way can we combat all forms of discrimination in the long term and stimulate the active participation of young people and women in the social, economic and political life of their country. we can thus give real and useful content to this programme for all young people in european schools and in third countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would firstly like to thank the parliament for addressing the commission’s proposal very promptly, allowing the programme to start as early as possible. secondly, i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has underlined the very important questions we have to tackle here. the uses and applications of the internet and mobile phones have multiplied greatly since they were first introduced. we now have interactive markets, and very young children – not only young adults – spend a large portion of their time online, sometimes even more than in front of the television. we have a situation where the parents do not know how to operate these new technologies or what their functions are. i do not think we should be negative. the internet and mobile phones are a wonderful, exciting opportunity. however, having said this, we must not ignore the other side of the coin. in the real world there are risks associated with the use of the internet and mobiles phones, in particular for the more vulnerable part of our population – our children. these dangers – as the rapporteur has rightly underlined – range from harmful viewing content to harassment and bullying, all of which have become easier and more commonplace. even worse, the internet has become a channel for sexual abuse. despite joint efforts to fight the production and distribution of such terrible material, its volume is on the rise. that is why there is an urgent need to fight these negative and unacceptable practices. the protection of children must be a shared responsibility. of course, it starts in the family, but we have to enable families to help their children. it involves governments, industry, non-profit organisations and schools. this is precisely the goal of this new, safer internet programme. it will maintain what has been done in previous years regarding current internet protection but build on these successful activities and enhance the safety of children in the online environment of today. we know that these joint actions by governments, private organisations and the industry are a very good example of how europe can have a direct impact on citizens’ daily lives. more children use the internet at home or at school but parents and teachers are not necessarily well informed about the opportunities and the risks. that is why we will actively pursue our efforts towards creating a safer online environment for children by informing parents, empowering teachers and asking for coordinated action by national governments and educational societies. we will, of course, retain the substance of the commission’s proposals, but parliament has presented a whole series of amendments which provide a fuller description of one or more of the basic objectives and which seem to reflect the broad consensus within the parliament. that is why the commission can support the amendments put forward in mrs angelilli’s report. they will then pave the way for a successful first-reading agreement with the council. i am very confident that the compromise text for the programme, as submitted to you today, will be largely supported by parliament and hopefully also by the second legislator.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − the changing audiovisual landscape requires not only the education of children, but also the proper information of parents and educators about the risks to children and their involvement in the safe use of online information services. through the opinion of the legal affairs committee, we sought to establish a european strategy to combat psychological manipulation in the online environment and to protect the physical, mental and moral integrity of children who could be harmed by accessing inappropriate content through new media. i called for the adoption of a quality label for online service providers so that users can easily check whether or not a particular provider subscribes to a code of conduct, and for the establishment of effective filters and age verification systems. crime in this area is not limited by national borders. i believe that a coordinated approach is needed with regard to the different national databases and their connection to europol. the economic risks of internet use by children cannot be ignored today either, which is why i have called for the explicit mention of mobile telephony services as an area in which children must be protected from abusive or harmful behaviour. in conclusion, we support the adoption of the report and congratulate the rapporteur.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president. this was a tailored report for me, because all four of my children are online, and i deal with these issues on a daily basis. the member states of the union are doing a lot to make the internet more child-friendly, and we should not forget that the commission launched a programme called 'safer internet +' in 1999, which is still in force this year. the programme, as announced, will tackle harmful and illegal content, and will place a strong emphasis on increasingly conscious use of the internet and supporting the creation of a safe online environment. i just want to add to the speakers before me that between 2001 and 2007, 20,000 children went missing, and 500 of them were found. among the tasks listed, i would like to highlight the suppression of illegal content and the action against harmful online behaviour. there are very big gaps here, there are not yet hotlines in all eu countries where you can report immediately if you come across illegal content or sites where children are being tricked. the other important thing to remember is that the creation of a knowledge base would require greater and more effective cooperation between member states. it is no coincidence that almost half of the 55 million euros in this programme is dedicated to raising awareness in society, since prevention is the best weapon, otherwise law enforcement agencies are always on the trail of criminals, whether it is software or otherwise. and that is why we would like to draw the attention of the member states to the fact that they can also allocate their own funds in addition to the €55 million from the european union and cooperate better to implement the programme set out in this report. the european people's party, group of the european democrats, supports the adoption of the report. thank you very much.
in writing. i welcome the initiative to focus on educating both parents and children about the use of the internet, so that they become less vulnerable to online abuse. i think that developing teaching materials in schools is a good idea, but i think it would be useful to make programmes adapted to different age segments since you cannot explain things from the same perspective to a child of 6-7 years or a teenager of 16 years. i also believe that better filtering technologies are needed, as spam messages with pornographic content are often sent to e-mail boxes that are easily accessible to children with e-mail accounts. additional efforts are also needed in the area of age verification of persons accessing pornographic websites, as minors can easily access such sites. finally, i support the initiative of international cooperation on this subject. it would be preferable to reach a global agreement in particular on the labelling of websites as 'not harmful to children' as many sites harmful to children are hosted by domains not managed by eu bodies.
in writing. the internet is a world of information and entertainment today, but it is also a very dangerous place for children. that is why i consider it necessary to launch the 'safer internet' programme to protect children using the internet and new technologies. the success of this programme lies in how the 55 million euros are used, but it also depends on how we manage to combine the technical and educational aspects. studies show that using a software application to filter out the dangers to which children are exposed protects 90 percent, with the remaining 10 percent going to parents and direct caregivers, who must instruct the minor user not to accept an appointment with a stranger on the internet, not to reply to obscene messages, or not to give personal information and photos to strangers. the model in visual media, where tv programmes mention the minimum age for the film or programme to be viewed, needs to be adapted to the online environment, with the labelling of websites as 'child-friendly' being a first step towards protecting children from illegal content online.
in writing. children increasingly use the internet to communicate, to find information, to access knowledge and to spend their leisure time. children and their families need to know the risks involved and, above all, to follow certain rules that can protect them online. the internet must remain an open but at the same time secure environment. the safer internet programme builds on and improves on the previous safer internet and safer internet plus programmes. however, i would point out that its effectiveness will depend on the awareness of the population and the way in which the specific legislation is enforced at national level. any incident where a child or young person is confronted with unwanted solicitations or even harassment online should be taken seriously, reported and dealt with appropriately. a recent report shows that two thirds of internet youths have received unwanted requests and that 25 percent have viewed indecent material. unfortunately, many parents and teachers are staying away from the digital environment and not taking the necessary steps to protect their children online. i ask the commission to work with the member states to promote more the establishment and cooperation of security incident reporting and response centres.
in writing. this initiative is justified in the context of the european union's responsibility towards developing countries, a concern reinforced by the fact that the european union is the world's largest donor in the humanitarian field. in this respect, it is important to avoid overlapping the initiatives we have with regard to third world countries, launched at community or member state level. i believe it is essential that climate change is not a one-off commitment, but that the importance of preventive action is taken into account in all eu initiatives, and in particular in those related to development aid. last but not least, i think prevention actions should be given priority over humanitarian crisis actions, given the much higher costs of disaster reconstruction. beyond solidarity, the european union must also demonstrate its responsibility towards other parts of the world, and the global climate change alliance is an important step in this direction.
in writing. i'd like to make a clarification. workers in the east of the union do not want to be 'social dumping'; they do not want to sell themselves cheap. the costs of rebuilding and reproducing labor are, unfortunately, comparable in the east and the west. some costs are even higher in romania than elsewhere, and they have to pay their bills. the responsibility for the weakening of the labour market and the deterioration of working conditions in the european union does not lie with the workers, but with those who are exerting all possible pressure to eliminate the existing labour law safeguards with the sole aim of maximising profits by any means, including by sacrificing all the values and principles that we consider to be the common acquis of european society. it is our duty here to defend the right of workers in the east to enjoy a fundamental right: equal pay for equal work. socialists and trade unions, first of all, must avoid creating a false, artificial division within the class of those who can only win their rights if they maintain their solidarity. they have no power but solidarity.
president of the council. - madam president, i will be brief in view of the replies already given. i would like to say to mrs mcavan that we are in complete agreement with her that there should be an ambitious package, that we want, if possible, with the help of the european parliament, to have an agreement before christmas and we are in agreement that there should not be just any agreement. so we share your philosophy and want to see a good balance between competitiveness and sustainability. as for mrs starkevičiūtė, i would like to say that it is clear that the financial crisis is already having a significant impact. we must, and i say this to other speakers, keep to the path and that is why we are sticking to the energy-climate package. as for the union's budget, we will discuss it together tomorrow, at your first reading. i believe that the commission's proposal is geared towards growth and sustainable development and that we should not deviate from this, but we will come back to this in the debate tomorrow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. this has already been emphasized. however, account must be taken of the different national energy sources and of sectoral balances. i wanted to tell my friends bernard poignant and gilles savary, firstly, that i am aware of the importance of the contribution of the french socialists to the debates in the european parliament and the importance of their contribution within the european socialist group and, secondly, that i believe i am one of those who know best what europe owes to jacques delors and françois mitterrand. and i also think that the french socialist party should sometimes state this more clearly, which would avoid certain ambiguities: 'europe is neither a right-wing cause nor a left-wing cause, it is a european cause'. this is the lesson i have learned from jacques delors and i know that my friends gilles savary and bernard poignant share this view. as for what mrs ek said, of course we are sincere about the objectives and the timetable. we must ensure that the package is ready for the international challenges that europe will have to face. in comparison with what mr radwan and others have said about the financial crisis, it is clear that we are acting to protect citizens, to protect savers and that those responsible for the crisis in the various institutions must pay in the name of this crisis. we said that it was the principle of responsibility that should apply. the money that is being put into play is money that should be used to protect citizens and savers and is not being used to give gifts to those who are the main culprits of the financial crisis, whether in the united states or in europe, for playing too much the game of speculation. pervenche berès is quite right to emphasize, as has been said, the fight against tax havens inside and outside the union. this was not actually discussed in the european council conclusions, but as the president of the european council said, there will be other european meetings, and i say european. it is not a two-, three- or four-speed meeting, but a european meeting to prepare, in unity, the international financial regulation, a new international financial regulation, which should allow better financing of the economy in the long term. i agree with what has been said about the need for diversity in the commission's think tank. president saryusz-wolski is quite right, this is an extremely important point, we have not sufficiently emphasized the council's conclusions, particularly in the field of energy security. what was done at the last european council on energy security is an extremely important point. we must at the same time put into practice what has been said about relations with the producing and transit countries. we are clear about the messages to be sent to third countries and we must of course bear this in mind in the dialogue with russia. we must also put these conclusions into practice by supporting projects to diversify sources of supply, such as those mentioned, particularly nabucco. and, of course, it is through this that a certain europe of energy was born at the last european council. we have said what mr rosati said, and we must therefore take account of the specificities of the polish energy situation, particularly with regard to coal, but it is clear that poland will also have a responsibility to fulfil in the preparations for the poznan summit at the end of the year. i agree with mrs doyle's point. we must have a sense of responsibility. the financial crisis must not erase the response to the ecological crisis, and we must not hide behind the financial crisis. as regards the requests made by mrs van den burg, we really need better institutional coordination at supervisory level. we must distinguish between supervision and regulation. and at the supervisor level, we need to have better coordination on an institutional level. i welcome, as mr rübig does, the agreement reached on the third energy pathway. it is a compromise which i think is quite satisfactory. that's what i think i could point out. similarly, it would be important to have tax incentives for energy savings. i agree with him. in relation to what mr chichester said, it is true that we must have structural solutions both for the financial crisis - that is the challenge of the next international summits - and for climate change, and above all we must have good regulation and not overregulation. finally, in relation to what mr czarnecki said, it is clear that in the face of a number of industrial problems we must see the possibilities for adaptation in a number of countries. this is the case in poland with the shipyards. we know all about it. finally, in relation to what mrs isler béguin said, we know that the solution of the caucasus problems is a long-term task, that europe must take preventive action at the same time. i agree with her that we must also be more forward-looking about the status of these regions and russia's neighbours.
member of the commission. - madam president, in five minutes, four points. the first point is that europe has reacted, finally united. we did not start 'united', but we reacted 'united' at the eurogroup meeting, at the european council meeting, and we must continue. that's the message that i think everybody's sharing. a union that ranges from the coordination of aid packages to banking systems. it is absolutely necessary to coordinate them at european level so as not to create problems in certain countries. the european union's role in the global governance of the monetary and financial system. and this has been repeated here many, many times at council level. and at the level of some member states, this is a new message, which we must not forget next week. secondly, i fully agree - as the president of the commission and the president of the council have said - that in order to move towards a new phase of better regulation of the financial system at european level, europe must play a leading role in this regulation for the next few years at global level. i fully agree with some of you who have strongly supported institutionalised, not just coordinated, supervision at european level. thirdly, i fully agree with those of you who have spoken of the need to adapt the national reform programmes, the lisbon strategies, to the challenges of the real economy of today and tomorrow. and this is work in progress which the commission will present to you and to the council in december. and in this new dimension, in this adaptation of the lisbon strategy, account must be taken of the productive sectors, and in particular of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the main victims of the lack of credit caused by the banking crisis. and finally, the budget. of course, we must use the budget, the national budgets, without creating sustainability problems for the future, but by using the room for manoeuvre of fiscal and budgetary policy within the framework of the stability pact for growth, which was revised in 2005. there is a lot of room for flexibility, but there is also the need - and you are the budgetary authority, together with the council - to start imagining the budget of europe. and that, too, is a real debate. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the decisions taken by the european council on 15 and 16 october 2008 are strategic for the future of europe. first of all, i welcome the talks on the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. the european union (eu) needs to implement the institutional reforms laid down in the treaty to ensure that it functions efficiently, coherently and with greater transparency for its citizens. it is therefore a priority that the ratification process of the lisbon treaty continues and is completed in the near future in all 27 member states. secondly, as rapporteur on black sea regional cooperation and as a member of the foreign affairs committee, i would like to stress the importance of foreign policy issues. i reiterate the urgency of developing a common european energy policy to promote energy security and european unity, and to diversify energy supplies through firm support for strategic projects such as nabucco. last but not least, i welcome the decision to deepen the eu's relations with its eastern neighbours, starting with the republic of moldova, through the conclusion of a new deep cooperation agreement. in addition, the eu must remain firmly committed to georgia and to the resolution of all conflicts in the black sea area.
in writing. i would like to welcome the conclusions of the european council of 15-16 october 2008 on the need to redefine the european union's eastern neighbourhood policy, in particular as regards the republic of moldova. the european union needs to put the black sea region and, of course, the republic of moldova on the list of political priorities. it is necessary to give a clear mandate for the negotiation of a new agreement on enhanced cooperation with that country, but with very clear conditions, namely the need to make clear progress, the scrupulous respect by the communist government in chisinau of democratic standards, the rules of the european rule of law, the respect for the independence of the judiciary and the right to freedom of expression of the press. the elimination of the undemocratic abuses and excesses of communist power, the amendment of the legislation to cancel the provisions preventing citizens with dual or multiple citizenship from accessing public functions and dignities, the amendment of the electoral code in accordance with the european standards of the member states of the european union and the recommendations of the council of europe are preconditions for the conclusion of this agreement. romania has been and will be the main supporter of the future european integration of the republic of moldova and i expect the moldovan authorities to take concrete action in this regard.
in writing. – a new bretton woods has to be well prepared. a rising chorus of leading politicians is in favour of organising a world conference to tackle the structural flaws of current world finance and revamp the international architecture in this field. it goes without saying that a coming together of old and new economic powers is badly needed for such a historical task. but a world conference (a new bretton woods!) has to be well prepared. firstly, one needs to define the analytical underpinnings of the reconstruction of world finance. keynes and dexter white led their experts for a significant period of time, despite it being wartime, in order to produce a workable blueprint. we have to make sure that such a blueprint is available by the time decisions are made. the team led by jacques de larosiere could help a lot in this respect. secondly, there is need for the major economic powers to see eye to eye on key issues. and here things are more complicated. i would very much hope the eu would take a leading role in coalescing efforts to revamp the international financial system and to overhaul the regulatory and supervisory frameworks so that finance can genuinely serve the economy.
in writing. the russian-georgian crisis and the financial crisis have demonstrated in practice, not just in theory, the need to reform the european institutions. the unity of europe, expressed in a single voice, is the only solution in such situations. the implementation of the lisbon treaty is a necessity. the council meeting in december must find a solution to this, whatever the consequences. the financial, energy and political security and the strengthening of the core values of the european project can only be ensured through a close partnership with neighbours. the eastern partnership brings a new dimension to the neighbourhood policy, complementing and intensifying existing projects in the black sea region by promoting an institutionalised framework to help update visa liberalisation agreements, the establishment of the free trade area and strategic partnerships with our eastern neighbours. there is a feeling of 'enlargement fatigue', but we cannot afford to keep countries like moldova and ukraine out of the union for too long. the 'eastern partnership' must include a clear signal, a roadmap for these countries, which creates the possibility of eu accession, of course if the required level is reached in all areas.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the report refers to the future of cohesion policy. it was difficult to find pragmatic answers valid for all 27 member states and their different governance and partnership systems. the rapporteur has managed to come up with very concrete proposals. on governance, i would like to underline two elements. we need to empower regional and local authorities with a better and more efficient sharing of responsibilities. it is also of the utmost importance to address the lack of expertise and administrative capacity to deal with funds and projects at regional and local level. on partnership, the report rightly insists on the centrality of inclusive processes and full ownership. we need to bring in the largest number of stakeholders possible at all policy and implementation stages, and in order to do this we need minimum compulsory standards. i am extremely satisfied with the way in which the rapporteur has dealt with all our contributions and concerns and congratulate him once again for his excellent work.
in writing. - i voted for the draft resolution which prevents the introduction of passenger scanning as a measure to increase civil aviation safety. the safety of passengers is essential, but the measures taken must not affect the fundamental rights of citizens. the introduction of body scans, as proposed at this time, does not guarantee respect for the right to privacy. i consider that studies should be carried out to determine the effect of their introduction on human health and an impact study should be carried out to determine the appropriateness of such measures. i also consider the procedures to be adopted for the manipulation of the images obtained by scanning to be of the utmost importance. in this regard, the european data protection supervisor should develop and communicate a view so that any measures dedicated to passenger safety are implemented in compliance with the personal data regulations. we look forward to further information from the european commission on the measures it is considering to improve civil aviation safety. i was in favour of adopting this resolution today because the fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union must be protected.
in writing. − i voted for the report 'creating a global climate change alliance between the european union and poor developing countries' because they are the most vulnerable to climate change. the 2007 review of the eu action plan on climate change and development referred to above shows that progress in mainstreaming climate change into the european union's development policies has been insufficient and far too slow. although the eu has set itself the objective of becoming a leader in the fight against climate change, the eu budget does not reflect the priority given to these policies. the clean development mechanism (cdm) has so far proved insufficiently adapted to meet the needs of the poorest countries for investment in clean technologies. the report calls for the eu to give climate change a central place in the development of its cooperation policy and invites the commission to provide detailed information on current climate change and development finance mechanisms at national and international level. the commission should propose without delay the necessary measures to increase eu financial support for climate change and development, ensuring the best possible coordination and complementarity with existing initiatives.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the initiative to draw up a report on good local and regional governance and the importance of the notion of partnership between the four or more levels of power: local, regional, national, european. any meeting with representatives of local authorities, elected by direct vote of the citizens, often reveals differences in approach to european policies between these levels of power. without a policy of real partnership between all these power players, uninfluenced by political partisanship that has nothing to do with subsidiarity, the efforts made by both the european parliament and the other european institutions will lack the concreteness and effectiveness desired. we are all too familiar with the conflicts and misunderstood competition between the representatives of the different political parties in power at different levels of government, which often leads to the deprivation of european citizens of the benefits of the european projects decided on in this european parliament forum. that is why i voted in favour of the report, expecting regional policies to be given due weight.
in writing. - mr beaupuy's report places good governance at the level of two complementary systems: the institutional system, which allocates powers and budgets between the state and regional and local authorities; the partnership system, which brings together various public and private actors in a given territory and interested in the same problem. partnership can bring added value to the implementation of cohesion policy through stronger legitimacy, enhanced coordination, guaranteed transparency and better absorption of funds. the involvement of partners can contribute to the development of institutional capacity at sectoral and territorial level. it should not be overlooked that the partners have the necessary capacities and resources that can improve the effectiveness of the programme by making the project selection process more efficient. in order to legitimize the decision-making process and counterbalance any political influence in the public consultations during the preparatory phase of operational programmes, the participation of local and regional authorities and civil society is very important. this allows for the use of a great deal of expertise and contributes to improving the development, monitoring and evaluation of the programme. it should be noted that the new member states are not yet ready for the partnership principle and therefore it could be gradually strengthened as a result of supranational and subnational pressure. on the basis of the arguments already expressed in the amendments i tabled and which mr beaupuy accepted by incorporating them into the final text, i have expressed my support for this report.
in writing. − even if progress and efficiency in agricultural, plant and animal production are inconceivable without major breakthroughs in the field of genetics, it is necessary to establish optimal biosecurity measures for the use of genetically modified microorganisms under isolation conditions, as we must respect the precautionary principle in order to protect human health and the environment. certainly, without mendell's discoveries and, continuing with those of morgan, crik and watson, mankind would be poorer and more conflicted today, but it is appropriate that the production, testing, use and marketing of genetically modified organisms (gmos) - plants, animals or micro-organisms - be subject in all countries to a special regime of regulation, authorisation and administration, which establishes the legal and institutional framework designed to eliminate or reduce the risks of producing adverse effects.
in writing. − we voted for this report with the over 150,000 europeans and europeans who are involved in crossborder divorces every year in mind. many of them are romanian or romanian women married outside their country. i voted for this report because i believe that we have a duty to support the removal of all those obstacles and bureaucratic burdens which lead some to say that the union is a hell for citizens and a paradise for lawyers. i also believe that we have a duty to those we represent to eliminate a number of other problems that cause discomfort to european citizens. the problems of medical care for a european citizen in a country other than his own or the equivalence of diplomas are just two of them.
mr president, ambassador jouyet, madam commissioner, eu relations with russia needed a reappraisal even without the events in georgia. energy, security and common neighbourhood issues need a concept of common management which does not yet exist. in the eu, the preference is still for bilateral, rather than multilateral, action which diminishes the efficacy of our approach. moreover, on the basis of different experiences within the union, there is still no common perception on russia between the east and the west as a precondition for a common position. let me be very clear. we in the east are the least inclined to have a confrontation because we would be the first to lose. equally, we are less disposed to allow unacceptable russian behaviour to be ignored because, again, we would be the first to lose if it were repeated. generalisation in either direction is wrong. on the one hand, relations with russia should not become totally hostage to what has happened in georgia. on the other, what happened in georgia should not be ignored just to keep our bilateral relations unaffected. we do not need to interrupt relations with russia. after all, we managed to live with even worse in the past. we need a sincere dialogue based on our strengths – apparently the only thing russia respects – in which we indicate to russia what is acceptable and what is not, and russia finally tells us what it really wants from us. i hope that we can both live with that.
mr president, russia is no longer the soviet enemy of free, democratic europe. russia is not yet the european union’s strategic partner. one must get out of this ambiguity. russia is too big to be isolated; russia is too important to be ignored. the european union must build on these realities. the geopolitical crises in the south caucasus and the western balkans prove that russia and the euro-atlantic democracies could enhance, at arm’s length, unilateral measures at their leisure, without considering each others’ priorities. the recent financial and economic global crisis proved that russia and the european union are interdependent and need each other. therefore, we must convene a new conference on security and cooperation in the wider europe, from vancouver to shanghai this time, to refound the principles and the rules of international relations and international law of the international organisations... (the president cut off the speaker.)
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. − the directive introduces green criteria among the criteria analysed for the purchase of clean and energy-efficient public road transport vehicles. member states shall inform the authorities and contracting parties providing public passenger transport services of the provisions relating to the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles. the tran committee proposes that member states and the commission consider the eligibility for financial assistance of projects dedicated to urban mobility and the promotion of green vehicles in the mid-term review of the national strategic reference frameworks and national and regional operational programmes. urban transport initiatives such as the civitas and smart energy europe programmes must also be continued. the tran committee proposed the use of the inscription 'energy-efficient and clean urban road transport' by authorities whose purchases of green vehicles are included in the total of specific annual purchases. i congratulate the rapporteur and i am convinced that this document will change the behaviour of local public authorities towards the environment.
the directive makes local authorities aware of the environmental impact of urban transport. member states may apply stricter award criteria for the purchase of clean and energy-efficient vehicles than those proposed in the directive and may opt for the purchase of retrofitted vehicles or upgrade existing vehicles by adding particulate filters or adapting engines to less polluting fuels. i personally believe that the purchase of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles, including the subsequent installation of engines and spare parts in these vehicles, when they have not exceeded 75% of their total mileage over their lifetime, should be possible. this directive shall not apply to the retrofitting of engines and spare parts to road transport vehicles when they have exceeded 75% of their total lifetime mileage. i think these elements are necessary because this is an investment that has to be sustainable.
in writing. the introduction of clean and energy-efficient vehicles on the market will make a significant contribution to environmental protection, improving air quality and making transport more energy-efficient by reducing pollutant emissions. the objectives of the air quality directive and those of the green paper on sustainable urban mobility can be more effectively implemented by promoting green public transport. at the same time, japan's car industry, which is very focused on making clean cars, is a threat to the european union market, which needs to invest more in the technological development of low-carbon vehicles and in the promotion of alternative fuels. in order to encourage car manufacturers to produce as many green cars as possible, it is necessary that public procurement takes into account the lifetime costs of those vehicles and their impact on the environment and public health. these requirements will not, however, distort competition between the public and private sectors, as long as the latter are subject to the same environmental rules and criteria in the provision of public transport services.
mr president, let me put this straight. i am committed to fighting terrorism and to ensuring security for all citizens, but i am not going to explain to my constituents how 11 meps decided, in an obscure bureaucratic procedure, to allow body-scanning in european airports which would show them naked. this whole comitology procedure is yet another example of how to push european citizens into euro-scepticism. the commission’s argument – but also that of the developers of this technology – is that body scanners are intended as alternative to physical searches. but the moment we allow this technology, we will have no guarantee that it will not be used for primary screening. we all know from our experience in airports that some of them perform a mandatory physical search. therefore the issue is whether we allow body scanners or not. perhaps we should forbid them. so i urge the commission to suspend this procedure, which has put us in a messy situation. we need to have a large democratic debate in which parliament and the edps have to be involved. this is invasive technology, and issues such as privacy, proportionality and efficiency must be carefully looked into.
i'm going to assume that the safety of passengers in the aviation sector is paramount. but body scanning involves taking detailed images of the human body. these images invade people's private space. i'd like to refer to the conditions under which these images are used. commissioner, we understand that the footage will not be stored. but are they used in compliance with all the requirements of the legislation on the protection of personal data? what measures are you planning to take to ensure that staff using these scanners are aware of and comply with the provisions of personal data legislation? commissioner, even if the passengers agree to use these scanners, i'd like to be sure that the images are erased. the health effects of using these scanners, unfortunately, will only be deduced after a number of years.
the creation of harmonised criteria for the approval and administrative management of any changes to marketing authorisations for medicinal products will benefit patients who will have access to better and safer products in the long term. given that only 20% of medicines for human and veterinary use are authorised through community procedures, this revision of the directive will have a considerable impact on the pharmaceutical market in the european union. any changes in the production process, packaging or manufacturer's address should be reviewed and simplified to ensure better protection of public health. we need to create a simple and flexible legislative framework so that all medicinal products, regardless of the procedure applied in the marketing authorisation process, are subject to the same evaluation and approval criteria. this will ensure the free movement of medicines within the european union by dispensing with the controls necessary to guarantee the quality of imported medicines and will determine the establishment and effective functioning of the internal market. both consumers and the pharmaceutical industry will have rapid access to the latest generation of medicines, as long as differences in national provisions are removed and a harmonised system is created.
i firmly believe that the draft directive represents important progress in ensuring faster access to medicines and i congratulate the commission, commissioner verhaugen and the rapporteur on this initiative. because the free movement of goods is one of the basic principles of the internal market and it seems to me that this principle should apply to medicinal products. the complexity and diversity of administrative procedures for authorising modifications to medicinal products already on the market distorts the functioning of the internal market itself. of course, besides the pharmaceutical industry and the authorities having to deal with bureaucracy, the primary victims are the patients, who because of these complex procedures benefit from delayed improvements in medicines. i therefore fully support the commission's proposal to harmonise the procedures for authorising modifications to medicinal products, irrespective of the initial authorisation procedure, as this simplification will make the whole system more efficient and, above all, guarantee a high level of protection of public health. i also support the rapporteur, mrs grossetête, on the need for a single procedure for authorising changes which affect authorisation more. a final comment on the commission's proposal to retain the original name of the medicinal product in the event of an extension of authorisation: i support retaining the original name, as even frequent change of the name of medicinal products may confuse patients who must consult a doctor before treatment anyway and who is normally aware of the new therapeutic indications of the medicinal product.
in many european countries, the procedure for authorizing medicines is still well regulated formally, but i would draw attention to the fact that too rapid authorization procedures lead to many deaths, caused by overdoses of medicines or by drugs taken by accident or by medicines with side effects that have not been sufficiently explored before. i think it's too easy to put new, improved drugs on the market, with miraculous properties, but they're taken off the market in a very short time. who is responsible for their quality and the side effects they produce? we welcome the initiative to introduce a harmonization procedure unanimously accepted in europe, but new medicines should be subject to an analysis by an international panel of experts.
in writing. the european union needs clear and strict rules on the conditions for placing medicines on the market, and also on all medical products in general. i would like to illustrate this need with a recent case in romania. in september, a woman died after an operation using surgical thread imported from china that had not been sterilized. other patients have suffered life-threatening complications. the commission of inquiry of the romanian ministry of health unequivocally acknowledged that the surgical dog in question did not bear the ce quality markings. the law on conformity assessment of products clearly demonstrates that the main blame lies with the relevant ministry, but clearer rules and more transparency could have prevented this.
in writing. although medicinal products in the european community continue to be subject to regulation by national and community governments throughout their existence, discrepancies between commission regulations and member states' provisions have negative consequences for public health, administration and the overall functioning of the internal pharmaceutical market. the aim of this report is to ensure that all medicinal products placed on the community market, including those authorised at national level, are subject to the same approval criteria and administrative changes, irrespective of the procedure by which these medicinal products have been authorised. the proposal simplifies administrative procedures for member states and allows for the harmonisation of assessment and surveillance requirements for all medicinal products. the adoption of this report will provide much greater protection for consumers who will directly benefit from the efficiency improvements, strengthened organisation and clarity and transparency that are the response to the implementation of a simplified and standardised regulatory system for marketing authorisations for medicinal products in the european union.
our goal is always to ensure legislation that brings more benefits to the consumer. that is why i would like to endorse this new directive which brings a model and simplified framework for timeshare holiday products. i welcome the proposals to give consumers a 14-day cooling-off period to withdraw from a contract and to prohibit the demand for advance payments within that period. i hope that the amendments will contribute to a functioning internal market by harmonising european legislation in this field and thus increasing the level of consumer protection. we must ensure that, when the contract is signed, the consumer is fully informed and that all the necessary pre-contractual information is made available to him about the costs involved, the services he will benefit from. we need to encourage the development of the holiday products industry in time-share and long-term; to increase consumer confidence in buying holiday packages across borders and always encourage businesses to sell across borders, to take advantage of the benefits of the single market. i ask commissioner kuneva to intervene in credit agreements too, because after this financial scandal in which we find ourselves most banks have changed these credit agreements too, continuing to deceive consumers. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work and hope that we will have a market that benefits the consumer.
in writing. −the report on the need for a european parliament and council decision on a community programme to protect children from the avalanche of pornography and violence flooding the internet and other communication technologies is more than welcome, although it was too much to expect. was it necessary to wait to see children killing children or children raping children to make such a decision? such realities were hard to imagine a few years ago in european society. and all this because globalisation, which means cross-border communication, has made information, instead of being a package of truth, of education, of beauty, a commodity whose sole purpose is to make a profit at any cost, and to get a rating. that is why the report must be taken very seriously by the council and the commission, if we do not want our own children to lead the future society towards crime, violence and pornography. i voted for this report in the hope that it could trigger the process of drawing up a directive to block children's access to inappropriate content, while respecting citizens' right to information.
in writing. −this directive introduces a harmonised methodology for the procurement of 'clean' and energy-efficient vehicles for the provision of sustainable public transport services; it also contributes to the priorities set in the context of the lisbon strategy. an explicit requirement that all purchases of road transport vehicles by public authorities and by operators providing services under a contract with a public authority, as well as purchases of road transport vehicles for the provision of public passenger transport services, take into account energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and pollutant emissions. the greatest economic gain would be achieved by making external costs mandatory as an award criterion in all procurement decisions. vehicle owners would directly benefit from the long-term energy savings, which would far exceed a possibly higher vehicle price. promoting 'clean' and energy-efficient vehicles through public procurement for the provision of public transport services stimulated by this initiative will accelerate the development of these technologies on the market and contribute to energy saving, environmental protection and public health.
in writing. −i voted for the jørgensen report on the promotion of environmentally friendly vehicles for public transport. the original proposal submitted by the commission in 2005 was rejected by parliament as too bureaucratic and not reducing pollution. the old proposal called for 25% of cars to be green. the new proposal concerns only motor vehicles intended for public transport and the public authorities responsible for providing these services. i believe that the new proposal will enable local decision-makers to become more aware and to take more firm action to protect the environment. at european level, the costs of congestion in large urban areas are estimated at 1% of european gdp. pollution in large cities can be reduced by promoting public transport and, above all, by clean public transport. in addition to the promotion of metros, trams, trolleybuses, regional trains or shipping, pollution can also be reduced in large european cities by introducing eco-buses. the new directive introduces an obligation for local authorities to calculate and take account of the cost of using a bus or minibus for its entire operating life. i congratulate the local authorities in prague on the acquisition, on the basis of state aid, of a fleet of environmentally friendly buses, thus setting an example to be followed.
it reports to the commission on the internal market and consumer protection. -the budget is not a political issue, it is not a technical issue, but a deeply political issue. the budget is a means of determining the means to achieve our objectives and a measure of the sincerity of the commitments we make. the internal market provisions seem sufficient. we thank jutta haug for the enormous effort to coordinate the extremely diverse demands with the more general political objectives. despite this effort, problems are not without theirs. the financial market is showing its limits. we see the irregularities that are hidden behind rules that are difficult for the citizen to understand. it demonstrates once again its fragility. the amendment calling for funds to be allocated to financial education of consumers is rejected by a majority in the committee on budgets. not to save money. a higher amount than requested is approved for an unspecified purpose, also related to consumer protection. please consider the use of the appropriations under that chapter for financial education programs. the lack of information of some is a condition for the functioning of the speculative market and the enrichment of others, but this is not the time to take up its defense. it is preferable that the educated citizen defend himself.
in writing. i would first like to congratulate mrs doris pack on the very hard work she has put into the drafting of this resolution. the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, demonstrates the eu's will to continue to play an important role in the balkans for the political, economic and social stability of the area. this agreement offers bosnia and herzegovina a new prospect of economic development and, above all, new horizons in european integration, restoring not only stability to the area but also opening up economic exchanges, a major step towards integration into the european market.
in writing. when you say bosnia, you are talking about another page in the long-suffering history of the balkan peninsula. the bosnian war destroyed over 75 percent of the country, resulting in over 200,000 deaths and 1.8 million refugees. the signing of the eu's association and stabilisation agreement came 13 years after the end of the war. 'the agreement opens the door to a prosperous future for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, while at the same time calling on bosnian politicians to leave the past behind and move on,' the country's foreign minister, sven alkalaj, said at one point. and he has reason to go on. you think of sarajevo, the city that once hosted the 1984 winter olympics, the unesco world heritage-listed old bridge in mostar, the kravica waterfalls, the sutjesk national park, or the jahorina and bjeslanica mountains, where some of the olympic events were held - so many invitations to a trip to bosnia and herzegovina. a country that must, among other things, accelerate state reform and non-discriminatory access to education.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be able to speak in this debate which is intended to commemorate the great famine of 1932 and 1933, which was one of the great tragedies of the 20th century. after many years of silence, the testimony of that suffering is now coming to our attention alongside the stories of the many survivors who were involved in that terrible event. it is vital that we do not forget what happened in the holodomor. the story of the great famine not only illustrates the tragedy of the ukrainian people but reminds us once again of what human beings are capable of. but the holodomor also teaches us something important: the sacrifice of so many dead was not in vain. that sacrifice reminds us that no state should ever accept the subjugation of individuals, whatever the cause or purpose for this. this disastrous famine has shown the superiority of a constitutional state over one in which no form of dissent is allowed. tragedies like the holodomor only happen in those human societies that trample on citizens' rights, the rule of law and democratic principles. the european union was built on the ashes of war and various totalitarian experiences, on the ashes of dictatorships which have deeply wounded the history of europe and the world. but from those same tragedies and catastrophes came the democracies of europe, and in the last fifty years, a season of peace has been built on those ruins which we have a duty to defend, to carry beyond the borders of the union: the european union has been a major force in the world for over 50 years, and it has been the most important achievement of a united europe. today ukraine has changed as well. in this independent country, a member of the council of europe and a signatory to the european convention on human rights, as well as to numerous other international instruments for the safeguarding of these fundamental rights, ukraine has a tremendous opportunity to prove itself, to strengthen itself as a democratic state that respects human rights and the rule of law. this is certainly an ambitious and difficult task. we have seen how many political battles and struggles have marked the last few years of the history of this country, which has become stronger in its democracy. it is necessary at this historic moment that we all support, encourage, with our political support, the independence of the judiciary. it is important to continue to fight corruption and to take account of the outcome of the recent electoral consultations in order to ensure that democratic principles are respected. nor should the protection of the weakest and the most marginalized, whatever their race, ethnicity or religion, or their sexual orientation or state of health, be neglected in that country. the european union will continue to support ukraine in these important efforts. at the same time, we will continue to work alongside our ukrainian partners to increase prosperity for all citizens of that country, opening up new markets and increasing prospects for economic activity and investment, as well as intensifying contacts between our citizens. i would like to add, as commissioner for transport, that also with regard to the transeuropean networks, we must remember that they can not only serve to strengthen our internal market but are also a tool to widen europe's borders, to open europe to new horizons, to strengthen the link between countries bordering on the european union, between neighbours and friends, such as ukraine. there can be no better tribute to the victims of the holodomor than the creation of a prosperous, stable and democratic ukraine, based on strong institutions and a committed civil society. only if this goal is achieved will the sacrifice of so many innocent victims not have been in vain.
on behalf of the pse group.– madam president, this is a very special debate. as a political body, the european parliament is asked to legislate and to provide executive decision-makers with political guidance for properly coping with the challenges, opportunities and dangers of our present times. in other words, we are history-builders and not historians. we are not asked to judge the past, but to build the present, and are supposed to be judged by the future. therefore, the socialist group reluctantly accepted to subscribe to a resolution which apparently aims to establish a historical truth about a tragic event that took place in ukraine in the past. we did that, however, because we understood that solidarity with the ukrainian people and their sufferings could mobilise ukrainians in their efforts to unite their country, to democratise it, modernise it and bring it inside its natural family which is the european union. at the same time, we understood that if the tragedies and crimes of the past are forgotten, the danger of their being repeated is overwhelming. historical condemnation of crimes cannotprovide reparation for the victims thereof or their heirs, but it is moral compensation. moreover, it is an intellectual and political guarantee against repetition of the crimes and resurrection of the bad instincts that lay at their origin. by condemning old totalitarian crimes, we not only shame the criminals of the past, but also those who might think to apply the same criminal methods in the future. awareness that impunity is impossible might very well stop them doing so. we must proclaim today that there is no state rationale, no social objective and no ideological principle that can excuse a crime such as the holodomor, the artificial famine which caused so much suffering for so many innocent people in a crazy attempt to destroy the moral dignity, national pride and biological existence of the great ukrainian people. at the same time, while condemning the crimes, expressing solidarity with the victims, and denouncing this attempt to destroy a whole people, we cannot put the blame for those crimes on another people. the holodomor was the product of a totalitarian political regime. all the peoples that were subject to that regime were victims of various similar crimes and hardships. the discussion today should not only remind us that we must always stay united against totalitarianism, but also that the present ukrainian generation, on behalf and in the memory of the holodomor victims, must eliminate from their country and their history all authoritarian instincts, inclinations and practices. they have to consolidate their national unity and accomplish together their democratic ideals. likewise, our expression of solidarity should inspire the ukrainians to solidarity and reconciliation, both inside and outside their country. inside, with their countrymen, who belong to different ethno-cultural groups, and outside with our neighbours. that is one of the best ways in which they could become members of the european union, and, if they choose to take that way, it means that our debate this evening has not been futile. eu membership for ukraine would be the best historical reparation that the ukrainians themselves can offer to the victims of holodomor.
i would like to congratulate mr stockmann on his work in obtaining a common position of the council with a view to adopting the directive laying down common principles for the charging of airport charges at community airports. for airport users, the proposed legislation provides a framework for the setting of charges that involves decision-making, is transparent and allows for appeal. the council accepted parliament's proposal to limit the scope to airports with an annual traffic of more than 5 million passengers and to the largest airport in each member state. the differentiation of airport charges must be based on transparent, objective and clear criteria. the common position requires airports to operate on the basis of cost-effectiveness criteria and will allow incentives for new routes to disadvantaged and peripheral regions. however, they must be granted on the basis of transparent criteria. we support the idea that, after informing the commission in accordance with community legislation, member states may authorise an airport managing body to apply a common and transparent charging system to airports serving the same city or conurbation, provided that each airport fully complies with the transparency requirements laid down in the directive. the environmental criteria will also become a basis for the adaptation of airport charges. the airport managing body shall publish decisions on changes to the charging scheme at the latest two months before they enter into force. as regards pre-financing of airport investments, member states should refer to icao policies or establish their own security measures. parliament considered that the independent supervisory authorities should be able to delegate the implementation of the provisions of the directive to other independent supervisory authorities under their full responsibility, provided that the same standards are met.
in writing. a european legal framework governing airport charges is of major importance in reducing the cost of travel for people within the european union and thus in increasing the mobility of workers, especially highly skilled ones. however, labour mobility is an essential element in an effective labour market in the context of the lisbon chapter of the strategy on growth and jobs. facilitating the movement of highly skilled workers would also lead to an increase in the flow of information and useful knowledge in the areas of high value-added production, in line with the lisbon strategy's aim of making the european economy the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
for citizens of the last two waves of countries accepted into the european union, the institution of the european ombudsman is something special, something new, only that it needs to be promoted more strongly, by making it very clear what the european ombudsman can and cannot do. we also think that the number of own-initiative inquiries should be somewhat higher. if the staff is insufficient, we recommend that volunteers, especially from the last wave or two, including members of the european parliament, be called upon to promote the institution of the european ombudsman.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and stress the importance of the european ombudsman. i would like to refer in particular to the positive consequences of its recommendations on the use of the languages of the new member states in the recruitment and selection process organised by epso. i would also like to underline the importance for the internal market of the ombudsman's recommendation that the commission should avoid in future unjustified restrictions on the official languages in which tenders may be submitted on the basis of a call for tenders. given the importance of personal data protection, i would like to appreciate the cooperation between the european data protection supervisor and the european ombudsman. if i were to refer only to the community regulations on the registration of passengers on international flights, this cooperation will become even more important in the period ahead. i appreciate the resolution of the solvit case, whereby a bulgarian doctor was provided with a certificate of conformity allowing him to practise in france and ... (president interrupts)
in writing. −in the vote on the 2009 budget approval report, section iii - commission, i voted for paragraphs 14 and 38 of the report which support institutional capacity building for the nabucco project. i also voted for amendment no 542 which provides for an increase of eur 5 million in budget line 0603 04 (financial support for projects of common interest in the trans-european energy network). despite the fact that the amount is small in comparison with the size of the budgets needed to implement the energy projects, i believe it is important to develop the institutional capacity needed to implement this project. the additional amount is devoted to the administrative capacity development of the nabucco project coordinator. europe needs to diversify its energy supply sources and in this respect the nabucco project is a strategic project for the european union. the majority with which these amendments were passed is a recognition of the importance which the european parliament attaches to the nabucco project. it is also looking for concrete action to be taken to start construction on the nabucco project.
in writing. -piracy at sea is as relevant today as it was a few hundred years ago, but it is nowhere near the romantic and noble craft of adventure novels or the pirates of the caribbean film series. piracy kills people and brings fabulous income to those who practice it. according to some statistics, in the past year alone, pirates have attacked over 60 ships, captured 14 of them, and taken hundreds of sailors hostage. the acts of piracy in the gulf of aden have cost shipowners between 18 and 30 million us dollars in ransom payments for the recovery of vessels and crews. and moreover, piracy can lead to complications like the one when a ukrainian ship carrying over 30 guns fell into the hands of somali pirates. these weapons could very well have gone to islamist militants in somalia or other conflict zones on the african continent. it's inexplicable that in 2008 there's piracy like in the middle ages. the international community in general, and the european union in particular, have a duty to analyse this historical anomaly and develop mechanisms to put an end to it, for the good of the whole region.
in writing. −i abstained on this motion because the european union needs a more mature reflection on the balance between security and freedom. clearly, both are essential values of the peoples of the member states and must be protected in equal measure. we must be aware, however, that the technology used by criminal or terrorist groups is in many cases more advanced than that of our law enforcement agencies. the eu has no excuse for not using the most advanced technical means available if their use can prevent the loss of human life.
author.− mr president, for several years the situation of the opposition in venezuela has been very difficult, and questioning venezuelan democracy has been legitimate. but what is happeningat the moment is proof that venezuela’s democracy and the rule of law are a mockery. to use an administrative measure in order to ban people for 15 years from holding or running for official positions is unacceptable. only the courts should be allowed to take such decisions, and only after convicting perpetrators of serious crimes. the perversity of this measure can be easily noticed when it is realised that the vast majority of those banned are from the political opposition, a practice that most likely will not be used only for the elections this november but may continue for the elections which will follow. it is not surprising that this political disqualification is happening at a time when human rights advocates who criticise the current government are being expelled from venezuela and when very suspicious accidents, resulting in the deaths of people who expressed criticisms, are not properly investigated. the european parliament must send a firm message to public opinion in venezuela that political disqualification is an undemocratic practice and is contrary to the very foundation of the rule of law. we must strongly reject the allegations of the venezuelan vice-minister for europe that the european parliament refused to vote on this resolution in september because it was seen as a vote against the anti-corruption fight. such a manoeuvre to manipulate venezuelan public opinion is undignified for a minister for europe. we also strongly reject his accusation that what we are doing here constitutes an attack against a sovereign country. this resolution is the expression of our concern regarding democratic evolution and respect for human rights in a country whose people we highly admire and respect.
author.− mr president, the conflict in the democratic republic of congo (drc) is profoundly traumatising for congolese society. amongst other atrocities, rape has been used for many years as a weapon of war and tens of thousands of women and girls are suffering. our empathy is not enough. without any doubt, there is an ongoing genocide against women in congo, and we can no longer afford to turn a blind eye to this dreadful situation. words are not enough to describe the horrors these women have to endure. undoubtedly, the clashes of the rebels in the eastern provinces will bring more and more violence, including sexual violence. how many women and girls have to die, be gang-raped, butchered, enslaved, contaminated with hiv, rejected by their communities, until we decide at am international level to engage seriously and with a long-term view on this subject? there should be no tolerance for the sexual violence against girls and women. the impunity of the perpetrators must come to an end and the rule of law has to be restored in the eastern provinces of the drc. we all have to acknowledge that this situation demands a multifaceted approach. peace needs to be achieved, the rule of law established and society saved from the poverty trap in the eastern provinces of the democratic republic of congo. this implies that the exploitation of congolese natural resources must follow the rule of law as well.
in writing. the european parliament must stand united in condemning the crimes against humanity in myanmar where the situation has become dramatic. non-governmental associations with an unshakable reputation report that nearly 70,000 civilians have been forced to flee their homes in the last six months, trying to escape the systematic abuses of military junta. myanmar has a history of nearly 50 years of military dictatorship and it is deplorable that its people have not been able to lead a normal life for half a century. persecution, torture, forced labor, land confiscation and restrictions on movement at the level of myanmar can easily lead to the authorities being accused of crimes against humanity. as a member of the european parliament, an institution founded on the principle of respect for human rights, i believe it is necessary to publicly remind the myanmar authorities that respect for human rights is the basis of a country's economic prosperity. the release of all political prisoners in myanmar, led by nobel peace prize laureate aung san suu kyi, would be an important first signal from the authorities of this state that they are open to international dialogue and that they do not intend to completely isolate themselves from the rest of the world.
mr president, on 4 and 5 december 2008 the european parliament will discuss a set of proposals to modify directive 2003/87/ec concerning the emissions trading scheme for greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2013-2020. the proposal foresees a huge increase in auctioning as early as 2013. while today 90% of pollution allowances are handed out to industrial installations for free, the new directive states that full auctioning should be the rule from 2013 onwards. in the case of romania, this will have extremely severe consequences on the whole economy, and the industry will be seriously affected. many industrial companies would have to relocate to third countries with less climate protection, which will raise prices and slow down romania’s development project on infrastructure. this is why i ask that industries in romania should receive all their allowances for co2 certificates for free for the entire period.
we welcome, firstly, the action plan adopted at the recent g20 meeting and the outstanding contribution of mr barroso and president sarkozy, the final decisions reflecting the strategy discussed and adopted by the member states of the european union. the commitment of all actors to work together to tackle the current financial crisis is also welcome. people are not interested in disputes now, but in real solutions. interdependence creates two-way channels that spread crisis, but can also spread solutions for economic recovery. for romania, unemployment in any eu country doubles the unemployment in our emerging economy, first by sending people back to work abroad, then by reducing the number of jobs offered by foreign companies that reduce their activity. at this point, unemployment needs to be looked at at eu level and solutions need to be applied and funded at both ends of these channels.
mr president, commissioner, the strength of the european union is its approximately 490 million citizens. the euro area is a pole of stability for europe and for the world economy as a whole. in the euro area, 16 million jobs have been created in the last 10 years alone. in the future, the union will have to respond to the challenges of demographic and climate change. the ageing of the population will raise major social, economic and budgetary problems. i believe that the free movement of goods, people, capital and services must be defended, especially now, against the backdrop of the financial crisis and economic recession. the removal of barriers to the free movement of workers guarantees decent and fair working and living conditions for all european workers and is an effective tool in the fight against social dumping and tax evasion. i call on the european commission and the members of the eurogroup to take the necessary steps with the governments of the member states to lift the restrictions imposed on romanian and bulgarian workers. the euro area must be an example of a social market economy.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs berès and mr langen. ten years is neither a long nor a short time, but it has proved to be a major contribution to the consolidation of the single market and, today, to the creation of a shield against financial speculation. i believe that stricter regulation of banking and finance, coupled with encouraging investment in research and development, competitiveness and financial education of citizens, can be much more effective solutions in this time of crisis. i believe that the european union states must show economic and social solidarity at this time, as intervention in the financial and banking system alone is not enough to stabilize only the apparent economic crisis. i hope, commissioner, that the effects of the crisis will not have a major impact on the budgetary projections for 2007 to 2013, so that european funds can produce the desired effects in the union's sustainable development.
ladies and gentlemen, this report is perhaps the most serious document we have ever produced on the wage gap. in particular, the accompanying recommendations represent a step towards the principle of equal pay for work of equal social value finally being applied. i would like to congratulate the various contributors to the report. so far, the work has been evaluated according to tradition and negotiating ability. when i say negotiation, i mean the presence of powerful unions, able to force governments and employers to accept fair wages. both criteria disadvantaged women. a non-discriminatory system of job evaluation and a new classification of occupations are needed. we call on the member states and the commission to finally embark on the path of concrete measures for gender equality. we hope they will make it public by endorsing the european most favoured nation clause later this month in paris. but let us not be fooled: even if it is elaborated and applied, the new system would only refer to paid work; domestic work and that of the informal economy continue to be done, especially by women, without a pay gap, since for this work, they do not even receive any salary.
mr president, commissioner, the 15% difference between the wages of women and men for the same work is real. in the case of female managers, this rises to 20%, and in the case of sme managers, it even reaches 30%. 28% of women researchers in industry and only 34% of women in industry have more than one child. commissioner, during the period of maternity leave, the average annual percentage for calculating the pension for these periods translates into a financial loss, despite the social importance of this period. mothers should not be penalized for giving birth and caring for a child in the first few months of life. i also think that child support should not be given only to mothers who worked in the 12 months before the birth. i believe that it is not the child's fault whether or not his mother worked during this period and, above all, i believe that there should be no discrimination between children from the moment they are born.
the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between women and men is a subject with specific connotations in the newly integrated countries of eastern europe. the benchmarks of professional performance are retained in their deeply masculinized essence and this perspective cannot be easily changed in the ex-communist space where, following the propaganda effort of the regime, the collective mind has taken over a model of completely artificial equality. the lack of consistency of primitive egalitarianism promoted by the propaganda of communist regimes has led to a undermining of modern efforts to promote equal treatment between women and men. based on these premises, i appreciate that any modern effort to promote the principle of gender equality must focus on a broader educational dimension, to provide eu citizens with realistic systematic models of non-discriminatory treatment. the implementation of this principle in the community requires that the european institutions propose more than just the organisation of a european day for equal pay.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, their use must take account, in addition to abstract theories, of the concrete situations in the member states. at the same time, we must maintain consistency with the broader principles of the policies we pursue. for example, the principle of equal treatment. the present report would fulfil both conditions if a proposal were accepted, in particular amendment no 69, which refers to the maintenance of duty-free at union customs offices other than ports and airports until 2017. this amendment removes a discrimination between those who travel by water or air and those who travel by land, which is absolutely unjustified from an economic, theoretical and practical point of view. at the same time, it confers a certain advantage on those living in the border areas, as already mentioned. they are generally economically disadvantaged because of their peripheral status and the loss of jobs would affect them negatively. ladies and gentlemen, there are good reasons to accept this amendment on the vote tomorrow; given the huge expense we're willing to make to rescue the corporations, this exemption has minor financial implications.
mr president, commissioner, chapter 4 sets out the basic provisions and procedures applicable to the computerised system for monitoring the movement of excisable products. the new feature is the introduction of the system and the administrative document in electronic format. in order to ensure the efficient operation of the computerised system, member states should adopt, within the national applications, a uniform data set and data structure to provide economic operators with a reliable interface. the transitional period for adapting to the computerised system for monitoring the movement of excise goods under suspension of excise duty should take into account the feasibility of putting the computerised system into operation in each member state. to this end, member states and the commission shall take the necessary measures to implement the public key infrastructure at national level and to ensure its interoperability. commissioner, in view of the food crisis that is coming and the social and economic importance of european agriculture, i believe that we should consider the possibility of eliminating excise duties on fuel used for agricultural work and on energy used to pump water for irrigation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by saying that i am delighted that we are finally debating this subject and i hope that today's debate will have the consequences that the commissioner has already promised us. we all know that the current procedures for actually accessing the solidarity fund take a long time and involve amending the union budget. for example, in order for romania to receive assistance from the solidarity fund for the spring-summer 2005 floods, it took about a year for the money to arrive. the regulation's requirement to submit the claim within 10 weeks of the disaster and the total amount of damage, which determines the type of disaster, are quite difficult to meet when it comes to, for example, floods. the full withdrawal of water is necessary to assess the damage correctly and this is in no way dependent on national institutions and authorities. secondly, the commission's procedure for verifying whether the conditions, in particular the major disaster, have been met also requires time, additional information and clarifications. finally, after the amended budget has been adopted, the commission prepares and approves grant decisions. finally, the money is transferred, which must be spent within a year, and in effect reimburses the expenses that have already been incurred by the beneficiary state as a result of the disaster it has experienced. in these circumstances, we all ask ourselves whether this is really an emergency aid. i will conclude by saying that the rejection of the commission's proposal to amend the regulation after discussion in the financial advisers' working group, without consulting the structural actions group, may lead to the conclusion that in practice the finance ministers did not agree, a conclusion which creates many problems for us, especially in the current context and just as many problems at member state level.
in writing. ignorance of the law does not absolve us of its consequences, and even more so ignorance of financial mechanisms does not absolve us of the losses suffered. financial institutions and insurance companies were and are obliged to provide consumers with 'instructions for using' financial instruments so that the citizen can make informed decisions. i therefore believe that the need for education of european citizens in the financial, banking and insurance fields by governmental and non-governmental institutions is a solution for those who want it, but that informing citizens using these tools should be an obligation for providers of services in this field. i believe that the eu commission and the member states have an obligation to prevent and inform european citizens about the harmfulness of certain products or services and to regulate the european market so that these harmful products or services cannot appear on the market. in conclusion, i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs iliana malinova iotova, and my colleagues on the inta and econ committees on the efficient way in which they drafted this resolution.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs iotova on the subject of this report. i think financial literacy is a very important subject. in romania, we are currently facing the problem of people who are no longer able to pay their debts, because they have taken loans from various banks, being poorly informed not only about the implications of these loans, but also not having enough financial education to decide which financial service is best suited to them. we must not confuse financial education with consumer information. financial education programmes should be developed in accordance with the age categories and needs of different population groups. i hope that the dolceta service will soon be translated into romanian and bulgarian, so that all citizens of the member states can benefit from it.
in writing. i am pleased to note that, one year after the european commission launched the consultation process to adapt the common agricultural policy to the current needs of farmers and agricultural producers, we have reached a consensus on concrete proposals. i consider the compromise reached on article 68 to be appropriate, in particular the increase in the ceiling for the formation of funds needed for new strategic public policy measures in the member states from 10% to 15% and the introduction of a clear ceiling for use in specific forms of aid. i come back to the issue of the deadline for the full implementation of the cross compliance package for romania and bulgaria. these two countries will reach the 100% direct payment ceiling on 1 january 2016. it is therefore fair that the deadline for the full implementation of the cross compliance package in the two countries should also be set at that time. i regret that the amendment we supported in this connection has not been adopted. given the importance of this issue for the new member states, i ask my colleagues to bear it in mind in the next discussions so that we can find a solution favourable to both countries and agreed by the representatives of all eu member states.
in writing. as a representative of a region with a large agricultural sector in romania, one of the new member states, i believe that the differences in treatment between farmers in these countries and those in the old eu countries are not reduced by the health assessments of the common agricultural policy. it is beneficial, however, that the national milk quotas for romania have not been changed, and that member states have the possibility to increase milk quotas for a certain period of time if these quotas are under-used in other member states. in view of the current crisis affecting this sector too, the proposal to create a milk fund to support its restructuring is important. in addition, i consider that, before the new milk quota regulations are applied, producers must be able to adapt to changes in the market and to invest in accordance with market requirements, in particular given the relatively long time limits for applications for investment aid. in addition, in order to enable producers to make investments in line with market requirements, it is necessary that there should no longer be any limit on the fixed quota.
in writing. i overheard one of my colleagues talking about how candy is shared between two children. continuing the parable, i would draw attention to the fact that if the same child were a future romanian or bulgarian farmer, he would be told that he will get what he deserves after 8 years. my question is, in eight years, will he still be a child? when i came to the committee on agriculture as a romanian mep, i was struck by the often used phrase 'smooth landing process', for example in the case of milk quotas. i asked then and i ask today: how can romanian and bulgarian farmers reconcile take-off and landing? when romania had just started the accession procedures, a danish partner told me that in this process the most delicate chapter would be agriculture. i hope that today, two years after joining, romanian agriculture will become an opportunity for a united europe.
president of the council. - mr president, we are very pleased, the presidency is very pleased to discuss this programme with the european parliament, as proposed by the european commission and personally supported by mrs mariann fischer boel. this is an important programme for the nutrition of the youngest citizens, it is a concrete and effective act to combat the development of obesity among young people. mr busk has just quoted the figures and i can confirm them: one in five children in europe is overweight or at risk of obesity. childhood obesity is increasing by 2% a year on our continent! the aim is to encourage young people to diversify their diets and to eat more fruit and vegetables. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that the implementation of this programme, which is the wish of all, demonstrates the important role that the common agricultural policy can and does play in encouraging consumption and, above all, the production of healthy and quality products. agriculture is naturally called upon to meet this double challenge, namely the quantitative challenge - this was its first challenge, the first contract with farmers in the 1960s - but also the qualitative challenge: product quality and safety. in this, ladies and gentlemen, it is proof that europe can and does respond to the concrete concerns of our citizens and that agriculture is at the crossroads of the great challenges facing our society. when we talk about this fruit and vegetables programme, we are talking about a concrete, citizen-led, humane europe, the kind of europe that the citizens expect. there is a very positive reception of this programme in the council of ministers and the discussions we have had, which we will continue today and tomorrow, show that, on the whole, we are all moving forward together on this idea. my intention is to reach a political agreement in the council this week. that is why i am naturally very attentive to parliament's position on this matter before i can incorporate your position and your support into the council's discussions. finally, mr president, i would like to express my sincere thanks to your rapporteur, mr niels busk, for the very precise and very passionate work he has done on this matter, and i am now glad to hear from you, as the commissioner.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly it feels good to have parliament behind me on the proposal on the school fruit scheme. i would, as i normally do, thank the committee and the rapporteur, niels busk, for the work that has been done. before i comment on some of the issues that have been raised here – and in parliament as well – i would just like to say something about a topic that has recently been discussed at some length in the council. a number of member states have asked to be able, in some cases, to ask parents for a contribution to the scheme. the arguments for and against are not straightforward. in the end, the commission has agreed that member states should have the freedom to require cofinancing from parents in some cases. on the other hand, i see no reason to force this on all member states. therefore we would make it possible for member states to choose whether they want to take this possibility on board. then when we review the scheme in 2012 we would really focus on the end-value to be gained from parental contributions. i have said from the beginning that what we are now putting on the table is not going to solve the obesity problems among young people in europe, but i believe that it will be a helping hand and give a clear signal from the commission that it is important to give our young people good eating habits. with regard to the overall budget, we have allocated eur 90 million. i have seen some different figures, as niels busk rightly said – from eur 500 million down to eur 360 million – but the eur 90 million that we have proposed is certainly not written in stone for the future. i think that we should also take into account in our review of the whole programme to be made in 2012 whether we need to increase the budget. i think it has been important that we have indicated that we are ready to reallocate the money. if there is a surplus of money in one member state, it can be reallocated. that will hopefully mean that we spend the money in the best possible way. regarding the type of fruit and vegetables to be distributed, i feel that it is very safe to leave this in the capable hands of the member states. whether they want to use processed food or to deliver local fruit and vegetables –or even to have the possibility of distributing acp bananas to their children – the final choice should definitely be made by the member states. i think that in this way we will get by far the best result. i am looking forward to a fruitful discussion on this issue.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, mr michel barnier, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur for his work and for the efforts he has made to reconcile the different points of view. we all agree on the importance of this program in educating children to adopt healthy habits, thus fighting obesity, but also in helping families who cannot afford to buy fruit for their children. i support the commission's proposal, but i think it must be improved: the €90 million a year proposed for funding is not enough, and supplementing the funds allocated is one of the conditions for the success of this programme, as was done in the committee on agriculture on the elimination of parental participation in self-financing, at least for the beginning of the programme. they also want to encourage the use of fresh, traditional and community-produced fruit in the programme. i insist that the fruit to be distributed should be determined by the member states, with particular attention to locally produced seasonal fruit and vegetables. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states should have sufficient flexibility in determining the target group to be able to distribute fruit to the widest possible range of consumers, depending on their needs. the programme should also make young consumers appreciate fruit and vegetables and should therefore have a strong positive effect on public health and in combating child poverty, especially in the new member states. joint measures may also be provided for to promote the consumption of certain products, combined with an additional component of health and nutrition education, and to stimulate regional producers, especially those in mountain regions.
mr president, commissioner, the european commission has proposed to allocate €90 million from the community budget to a programme whereby every child aged between 6 and 10 years old would receive one fruit or vegetable a week. calls on the member states to extend the programme and its funding, both at european and national level, so that all children, including preschoolers, receive one fruit a day. i hope we can all agree to increase the budget to 500 million euros. i appreciate that the programme should only cover fresh fruit and vegetables produced in the european union. they should be seasonal and come from local, organic farming. i would like to introduce a similar initiative introduced by the romanian government since 2003, whereby all children in preschool and primary education receive a glass of milk and a freshly made horn every school day. introducing proper nutrition for school-age and preschool-age students is part of a healthy education that we must provide for the younger generation.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on fruit for schoolchildren is part of a series of initiatives launched by the commission with the main aim of combating obesity and promoting a healthy diet. the budget of eur 90 million proposed by the commission would have proved insufficient to achieve the objectives of the programme. the alde initiative to increase community funding to eur 360 million is an important step in the right direction. the member states will in turn contribute to the final budget of eur 720 million. i'm convinced that only with such a budget will the program prove its effectiveness. that way, we can provide an acceptable amount of fruit per week for students ages 6 to 10. at the same time, i encourage educational institutions to introduce nutrition lessons into the school curriculum to explain the role of healthy eating through theory. only through a concerted and coordinated effort will we be able to change the eating habits of future generations.
in writing. diseases of modern man are caused by diet, but they can also be cured by proper nutrition. i support the school fruit drive. i can't help but think of the fact that in romania, since 2002, a glass of milk and a horn have been distributed in schools for free. while this benefit was initially available only to primary school children, it was extended to preschool children in 2006 and to secondary school children in 2007. the european school fruit scheme complements the above mentioned scheme, at least in romania. the advantages would be manifold. i'll just mention two: - the world health organization recommends at least 400 grams of fruits and vegetables a day for children up to 11 years of age. i am also thinking of the european parliament's resolution of 25 september 2008 on the white paper on food-related health issues. because let's not forget: food, the way we eat, is critical to maintaining good health. - reducing disparities - children come from socioeconomically unequal backgrounds, some of them severely disadvantaged.
in writing. the commission's proposal to introduce fruit in schools will benefit the health of eu citizens and make a significant contribution to the economic and social development of each member state. eating habits are formed during childhood and can last a lifetime. schools are the most appropriate starting point for determining this type of behaviour, the school being the second authority, after the family, which has direct contact with the children and which has a significant influence on them. this, combined with the introduction of a nutrition education programme in schools, would yield more results in developing preferences for a healthy diet that includes fruits and vegetables. children must first be educated and encouraged to consume these high-nutrient foods if the scheme is to achieve its goals of avoiding the diseases of obesity, malnutrition, and diabetes that may occur in adulthood. the amendments proposed by parliament bring a considerable improvement to the commission text by allocating eur 500 million a year to finance the introduction of fruit and vegetables to schoolchildren and by promoting organic fruit produced locally or at community level, the latter encouraging agricultural production at european union level.
in writing. − i voted in the consultation procedure for the report approving the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of kazakhstan, which took into account the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu. this report will lead to the dynamisation of cooperation between romania and the republic of kazakhstan.
in writing. − we voted for fair, equidistant and transparent financial education, but also for the obligation for service providers to provide real and accurate information in this area. the information must be clearly distinguished from commercial or advertising advice. i hope that member states will pay particular attention to the most vulnerable groups such as young people, pensioners and workers at the end of their working lives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by malinova iotova as it encourages member states to develop educational programmes for pensioners who may be at risk of financial exclusion, as well as for young people entering professional careers and facing the difficulty of deciding how to use their new income appropriately. consumers who lack financial literacy have difficulty choosing the products and services that best suit their needs. they have difficulty evaluating the advice they receive and may thus be misled into becoming victims of dishonest sales practices. i welcome the commission's initiatives in the field of consumer financial education, in particular the recent establishment of the financial education expert group. however, i believe that this financial education expert group should have clear responsibilities and competences. the website already created by the commission for consumer education (http://www.dolceta.eu) has proved its usefulness. i hope that this online tool will be further developed and updated in all the official languages.
in writing. − i voted for better funding for this project and for a clearer definition of the products that can be accepted in this project. statistics show that there are about 22 million overweight children and over 5 million obese children in the eu, mainly due to excessive consumption of products with a high degree of fat, sugar and salt. in these circumstances, it is more than necessary for the eu and the member states to intervene in the creation of healthy eating habits, in particular by ensuring a varied range of seasonal fruit. i also voted to increase the budget allocated to this program from 90 million to 500 million, because the amount originally allocated to this program was equivalent to providing one fruit to every child between the ages of 6 and 10 for 30 weeks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr niels busk, based on the conclusions of the health organisations on the diseases of modern man, many of which are due to a poor diet. the consumption of fruit, through the vitamins it contains, can help prevent and/or cure these diseases. we have to teach our children how and what to eat. so i think that there is some nutrition education involved, especially since the world health organization recommends at least two ounces [400 g] of fruit and vegetables a day for children up to 11 years of age. on the other hand, there is an explosion in the number of children who are "beneficiaries" of unhealthy, irrational, and incorrect diets, the fault being not only of the school or the family but of all of us, of society as a whole. this eating behavior must be stopped immediately. school is one of the factors responsible for the formation of skills, among which we should find that of eating fruit. that's why i strongly support the distribution and consumption of fruit in schools, a project that should be on the list of the most important priorities of the decision-makers, to be put into practice as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted for the elimination of direct and indirect discrimination, social and economic factors and segregation in the labour market. the report calls for a neutral professional evaluation which should be based on new systems of classification and organisation of staff, on professional experience and productivity, evaluated primarily from a qualitative point of view. it is also proposed to organise a european equal pay day to raise awareness of pay inequalities among civil society and employers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs edith bauer's report, aware of the gender inequalities which unfortunately still exist. equality between women and men is a fundamental value of the european union. promoting the principle of equal opportunities for women and men is a relatively recent concern for the european union - the maastricht treaty or the treaty of amsterdam, even though various aspects have been evoked by several international declarations or treaties, such as the 1967 declaration on the elimination of discrimination against women. in romania, two of the areas where women work the most are health and social care and education (69.5%). however, professions and jobs in which women predominate tend to be undervalued compared to those in which men predominate. and the inequalities, the discrepancies on gender criteria have a clear impact on pay. the average gender pay gap is 8.5-15%, even higher in the private sector, in favour of the latter, which is contrary to directive 75/117/eec on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women.
in writing. − without equal pay for women and men, we will have difficulty achieving our 2010 targets: improving living conditions, economic growth and eradicating poverty. the fact that women in the european union earn on average 15% less than men and have to work until around february (418 days a year) to be paid the same as men is a wake-up call that needs to be countered with concrete action. equal representation in the european commission and the european parliament can be our political signal for better representation of women in all decision-making bodies and, by implication, for the elimination of these pay gaps. i voted for this report and congratulate the rapporteur
in writing. - i voted for this report because it stresses the importance of increasing the allocation of european research funds to the development of new technologies for capturing greenhouse gases, and in particular co2, but above all to allocate funds for the implementation of pilot projects that will highlight this research, the timeliness and safety of new technologies. europe cannot yet afford to give up its largest energy resource, fossil coal, with many member states still securing energy independence from the processing of fossil coal. we need to ensure that future generations generate electricity from fossil fuels in a sustainable and low-polluting way.
in writing. – in a way, this is a key part of solving the problem, for unless we can achieve a truly common stance in the eu, achieving effective global rules for the financial markets becomes wishful thinking. sensible people would say that a massive failure of both regulation and oversight, as well as the flaws revealed in a highly simplistic economic philosophy, provide a clear answer as to what to do. some still argue, however, that soft regulations should be the lynchpin of the new system. in my view, they are wrong – either if they genuinely think so, or are driven by parochial interests. the world has changed dramatically in the last couple of decades. the decline of a misleading paradigm (which equates free markets with no regulations) has to be seen in conjunction with a rising multipolar economic world in the attempt to forge a new international financial system. arguably, the fate of an open world economic system hinges on the latter. i hope that the new american administration will be forthcoming in this respect, but we at home in europe have to rise to the momentousness of this period. some of our own bickering and inability to compromise serves as no good omen in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss this evening such an important issue, the economic crisis which affects not only the member states but the whole world. we must therefore find solutions to this problem, and cooperation between member states must be one of the steps to be taken in this direction. given that it is desirable for eu member states to call on this fund if necessary, we must welcome the decision of the european political leaders present at last week's summit. i believe that this european fund of financial assistance to the member states must be increased to at least 25 billion for one reason only: because we have to save this market economy. i would like to conclude by expressing my confidence that we will take the necessary measures to overcome this crisis, both at european and global level; we must urgently find the resources needed to prevent the problems facing our citizens, namely unemployment. we all want the welfare of the union.
mr president, names like lumumba, mobutu, chombe, dag hammarskjöld and katanga dominated my late childhood in the early 1960s. fifty years on, congo – now the democratic republic of congo – is again ravaged by internal unrest bordering on civil war. only this time the war in the eastern parts of the drc comes after, and in spite of, important eu efforts in the form of money, programmes, missions on the ground – including military missions – and intense diplomatic efforts. the current situation in the drc, therefore, is not just another crisis. rather it is a test case of the capacity and willingness of the eu to play the international role it now claims in world politics, since the crisis has all the ingredients the union maintains it is best equipped to deal with, and is taking place on a continent, africa, whose geo-economic importance is increasing exponentially.
we live in a world where we've gone from traveling with one horse for one person to traveling with dozens or hundreds of horses. cars with four or five seats are driven by more than 75% of the time with just one person. for 100 years, they've been consuming three gallons per 100 miles. the big problems of mankind are behavioral problems and pollution. so we have to think and use machines differently. they have to be much smaller, safe enough, green enough, with a few gallons per hundred kilometers and prices that control future human behavior.
in writing. the car industry is one of the engines of the european economy. every year, about 300 000 cars and 300 000 goods and passenger vehicles are produced in europe. road transport is responsible for 72% of total transport emissions, but now is the time to reaffirm the importance, both economically and socially, of the car industry. the financial crisis and economic recession are having a severe impact on the automotive industry, which directly and indirectly provides over 15 million jobs. 2012 will be a crucial year for the european car industry as it will introduce new requirements for fuel quality, emission controls, type-certification and road safety. in order to have a greener road transport, the union intends to introduce premiums for the most environmentally friendly vehicles and to penalize the most polluting ones. the climate change package thus becomes one of the instruments aimed at increasing the demand for greener and safer vehicles. social europe is based on economic development and, to the same extent, on social values. the european automotive industry needs support to meet new challenges, to preserve existing jobs and to remain competitive.
in writing. − clearly, we need community statistics on public health and health and safety at work, as this will support strategies aimed at developing high quality, accessible and sustainable healthcare. occupational safety and health is a field that aims to protect the life, integrity and health of workers, creating working conditions that ensure their physical, mental and social comfort. this requires a coherent and sustained programme to protect employees against the risks of accidents and occupational diseases. i support this motion for a resolution because we do not currently have a harmonised and common data set to prove the quality and comparability of the information in each country's statistical systems. community statistics on health should be adapted to the progress and results of community action in the field of public health.
in writing. - i voted for the report on aid schemes for farmers under the cap. i support the common agricultural policy. the european union must support its farmers by granting direct payments and developing rural infrastructure. the eu must invest in agriculture, especially as a global food crisis looms. i supported amendment no 23, which recognises the need to support the sheep sector, which is in serious decline, at community level. i also believe that member states should be allowed to use an additional 5% of their ceilings to support farmers or producer associations in the form of financial contributions to the costs of insurance premiums. special attention must be paid to small farmers and that is why i supported amendment no 211 which introduces a derogation from the additional reduction in direct payments for cooperatives and farmers' associations receiving direct payments and which centralises subsidies to distribute them to its members. i voted for amendments nos 114 and 118, which allow member states to use up to 15% of their national ceilings to grant aid to farmers to compensate for the specific disadvantages affecting those in the dairy sector as well as beef, sheep and goat producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the 'regulation on amendments to the common agricultural policy'. i supported amendment no 4, which allows for the milk quotas to be increased by 2% for 2008/09 and by 1% for the 2009/10 and 2010/11 marketing years, thus providing the necessary elements for a proper assessment of the market situation in the milk sector. i also argued that, if the situation on the milk market in the marketing year concerned permitted it, milk quota increases would be possible for the 12 new member states. in this context, it should be ensured that the decision to change the milk quota is taken in good time, before the beginning of the marketing year concerned (1 april in that year).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on support for rural development from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). i voted for amendment no 24, which defines the eur 75 000 set-up aid for young farmers. it may be granted in the form of a lump sum premium not exceeding eur 50 000 or in the form of an interest rate subsidy whose capitalised value does not exceed eur 50 000. when the two forms of aid are combined, the total amount cannot exceed eur 75 000. i also voted in favour of amendment no 12, which argues that for adequate funding of rural development programmes flexibility should be improved so that unused structural fund resources can be used within the same member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos. one of the reasons for the favourable vote is that, particularly in times of crisis, agriculture is one of the areas which must receive special attention. during such periods, consumption generally decreases. therefore, investments in agriculture must aim at lowering operating costs without affecting the quality of agricultural products. i would also say that we need to reconsider and establish the real value of agricultural products for the next period. otherwise, more and more farmers will stop farming because they will not be able to sell their produce at a reasonable price. there are often cases where the price of agricultural production does not even cover the investment. on the other hand, let us not forget that alternative fuels must also be identified and used in agriculture, a strategic area for the whole world. the report is topical in the issues it raises. agriculture must be one of the eu's priorities.
we are not fortress europe, as mr jouet said. yes, with the two reports this afternoon, europe is showing its openness, acceptance and support for the process of globalisation. i think this european work permit will solve a whole range of illegal immigration problems that europe faces. america demonstrated it with the green paper issued earlier. europe had to prove that it was for openness, especially since, as the report shows, only 5.5% of immigrants headed for the european union, and 50% of highly qualified people headed for the united states or canada. why are we not attractive, why are wages here so far out of line with those in the united states or canada, and so the unattractiveness becomes all too apparent? in the current crisis, it is a fair play by europe, a normal gesture, which must be balanced with openness to the labour force from abroad. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the countries of origin.
the project to establish the blue card for skilled migrants is designed to attract highly skilled labour from outside the european union, offering these migrants the chance to settle and work legally in the european union. the initiative is welcome, as it is estimated that 20 million jobs could be lost over the next 20 years. however, i would like to remind you that romanian and bulgarian citizens still face restrictions on the labour market, with fears already being expressed that some countries will extend the transition period for another 3 years. in this context, it is therefore very important that we do not discriminate against european citizens.
i think it is very important that the european union becomes more attractive to highly skilled workers, especially given that most immigrants today are unskilled. these workers must enjoy favourable conditions, a harmonised system of immigration and cross-border movement regulations and also wages reflecting their training. the european blue paper must also be seen as a way of discouraging illegal immigration, as part of the immigration and asylum pact, and as part of the solution to the labour shortage problem that will plague the european union in the coming decades. i insist that the citizens of the new member states should not be put in a worse position than those of third countries. it is not acceptable that some countries keep their labour markets closed to citizens of new member states, but instead offer highly skilled jobs to workers from non-eu countries.
in writing. firstly, i welcome both the commission's initiative and the rapporteur's position, as i believe that substantial progress has been made on the migration of highly skilled labour, which is essential for achieving the lisbon objectives. i believe, however, that the eu must be attractive not only to skilled workers from third countries but also to young europeans. given that the eu's economic competitiveness is at stake, we do not want to see a 'brain drain' in favour of the us or canada and against the eu. the current initiative must therefore also be strengthened by a policy to stimulate european young people. we also need to act with great caution and responsibility, taking into account the situation of human resources in certain areas in the countries of origin of these migrants, in order not to contribute to the deepening of the human resources crisis, especially in education and health. finally, i support mrs klamt's position on the application of community preference in recruitment and the idea of giving priority to the citizens of the new member states who are still subject to restrictions on access to the labour market. in the event of these restrictions being maintained, this priority seems to me to be a minimum condition for the citizens of these countries not to feel like second-class european citizens.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to some provisions that may have a discriminatory effect and therefore ask you to consider giving priority to citizens of the new eu member states in accessing the eu labour market over immigrants from outside the eu. the 'blue card' initiative is welcome, as it will partially address the shortage of highly skilled labour and can play an important role in reducing illegal immigration. however, there are provisions that disadvantage citizens from countries that have recently joined the european union. as access to the labour market for romanians in most eu countries is still restricted, either in full or in certain areas, i believe it is necessary to oblige the member states to reject blue card applications in those sectors where access for workers from the newly acceded countries is still restricted by the current transitional provisions. residents of eu countries, both new and acceding ones, must have priority over those outside the union. i also want to warn about the risk that the 'brain drain' in the developing world will affect areas that are essential to them, such as health, education and research, leading to a boomerang effect with complex implications on a global scale.
in writing. the creation of the blue book, which the eu needs as it faces a shortage of skilled workers in certain sectors, is a step forward for the economic migration of highly skilled workers from third countries. however, the blue paper may be a step backwards if member states do not reject requests for its release for labour market sectors to which access for workers from the new member states is restricted by the transitional measures provided for in the accession treaties. i cannot help recalling that england and ireland have already expressed their wish to maintain the labour market restrictions for romania and bulgaria for another three years. i would point out that the application of the policy of the blue book directive would put european citizens at a disadvantage compared with those in third countries. although the principle of community preference is mentioned in this directive, it is clear that it will not be possible to apply it to those european citizens who have restrictions on certain sectors of the european labour market. i would ask you to vote in favour of the amendment concerning this clarification, so that we do not end up in a situation where economic migration from third countries takes precedence over free movement between countries within the union. the new member states' logical desire is not to feel like second-class eu members.
in writing. demographic deficits and an ageing population in the european union put us at risk of the labour market, health and pension systems being put at risk. under these conditions, the blue card comes as a counterweight to the american green card system, which has proved to be a real success, considering that about 50% of the highly skilled workforce choose the us or canadian market. i think it is essential to have a uniform immigration system for all 27 member states, so that every eu country can benefit from the added value of a highly skilled workforce. it is equally important to me that the eu gives due recognition to these professionals by offering them fair and non-discriminatory pay. i would not like to end without mentioning that the eu labour market is not yet fully open to workers from the new member states, so we must be very careful that the measures we adopt do not discriminate against de facto citizens of the european union.
president of the council. - mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, mr pribetich, your speech and your questions are particularly relevant and, given the momentum you have given to supporting them and asking them, it will be particularly difficult for me to speak after you. the european union has a long history of cooperation with the united states and other countries in the space sector. its missions contribute to the increase of our knowledge, both in terms of earth observation and oceanography and in satellite meteorology. it also corresponds to the growth of our economies through telecommunications and satellite navigation. it has become, quite quietly, but essentially, a tool that is part and parcel of modern life. space is also a tool, as you have said, which makes it possible to unite europe around a common ambition and develop european identity. and it is in this spirit that the french presidency, together with valérie pécresse, organized the first informal meeting of european space ministers in kourou, europe's space port, last july. i know that mr rovsing represented the european parliament at this event, and i thank him for that. the meeting provided a common vision for europe in space around the three main actors of european space policy: the union, the european space agency and the member states, while recognising the union's increased responsibilities. these three players will make europe one of the leading space powers on the international stage, rest assured. in order to develop a european space policy that benefits all europeans, it is first necessary to guarantee free and fair access for all member states of the union to the benefits of space activities; secondly, to strengthen existing coordination mechanisms in the field of space, european expertise and community-funded investments, through intergovernmental and national sources; finally, we must also improve the synergies between civil and defence space programmes. so this is how the union, the european space agency and the member states will ensure that we have access to space that is autonomous, reliable and at the best cost, which is necessary in relation to our major partners. of course, this requires a stronger role for the european union in the european space policy. it is the union's responsibility to federate demand for space applications, to identify user requirements, to set priorities and to ensure continuity of services. we have also developed community financial instruments and schemes at union level to take account of the specificities of the space sector in the context, in particular, of the forthcoming financial perspective. the space council held on 26 september last allowed the two flagship programmes, galileo egnos and the gmes programme, to be put into orbit, if i may say so, and to be confirmed. regarding galileo egnos, the european union has signed a number of cooperation agreements with third countries, such as the united states, china, israel, south korea, ukraine and morocco. the same council of 26 september stressed the importance of increased coordination between the commission, esa and the member states in the field of research and development, particularly for satellite navigation systems. as regards the gmes programme, the forthcoming council meetings on 1 and 2 december are expected to lay down the guidelines and define the terms of the partnership between the union and the member states, make legislative proposals formalising the programme before the end of 2009, and i can already tell you that the council considers that the public good approach is the one to be adopted for the proper development of this programme. a data policy must also be put in place quickly. finally, there must be four priorities, which were also mentioned by mr pribetich: the first is space and climate change, since the contribution of space applications is unique in this field; the second is the contribution of space activities to the lisbon strategy; the third is everything that has to do with space and security so that we can have, at european level, monitoring and surveillance of european space infrastructure and space debris. the fourth priority is space exploration, which is a political and global undertaking and europe should act within a global programme. to this end, europe must develop a common vision and long-term strategic planning and also have the necessary political dialogue with other states in the context of wider international cooperation and, in this regard, the council welcomes the commission's announcement that it will organise in 2009 a high-level political conference on the long-term global vision for space exploration. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has been a very important meeting. i am very grateful to mr pribetich for giving me the opportunity to begin a contribution on a very technical subject with a line from a poem by my favourite french lyricist, guillaume apollinaire: 'il est grand temps de rallumer les étoiles'. i believe that the french presidency has already done a great deal to give european space policy the place in our work that it really deserves. we have made great progress in recent years, we have a european space policy for the first time - we have never had that before. we have a framework for a common european policy in which the commission plays a coordinating role. we have reached a broad consensus on the strategic, ecological and economic importance of space policy for europe. no one disputes this, and i would like to highlight here the meeting of the space council at the end of july at the kourou spaceport in french guiana, where we saw for the first time that europe is ready for this new venture into space. we have also shown that the european space industry is extremely efficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe is a leader in satellite technology, europe is a leader in vehicle technology. we have the best carrier systems in the world. we have an infrastructure with kourou that doesn't exist anywhere else in the world. we have demonstrated the state of european space technology by our contribution to the international space station, the space laboratory. i'm also very pleased that esa has done a whole series of successful exploration missions in our solar system that others have failed to do. so we have no reason to hide behind other europeans. we have achieved excellent cooperation between the european commission and esa, and the division of labour is working perfectly smoothly. in view of this smooth cooperation, there is not the slightest reason to think about changing structures in this area. but there are still problems to be solved. we europeans have no independent access to space. we can't transport people up and down. we have to decide whether we want to be dependent on others here for the long term or not. i don't want to hide my personal opinion from you. europe needs independent and secure access to space. we will also have to deal with the question of what the next major missions in the exploration of our solar system are. my view is that these next great missions can only be seen as the task of all of humanity. we should avoid any national or regional competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this will be the subject of the conference which minister jouyet has just spoken of and which the commission will be organising next year. so just to make this clear to everybody, we really want to talk about what the next big challenge is beyond the purely technical application of space-based technologies. what's the next big task, the next big goal, to satisfy the human urge to explore space? space-based technology is absolutely essential to our civilization today, to our security and to our economy. just think of all the communications technology or the financial markets. without satellites, nothing works today. it is true that there is a strong security component here. we're not running away from that either. we have been able to establish a regular structured dialogue between the council and the commission, involving the european defence agency and the european satellite centre. this dialogue is intended to improve coordination between civil and security and defence related space activities. the gmes system, which is in the development phase, is the european response to the global ecological crisis. this system will provide us with the data and information we need to be able to act proactively and respond when disasters occur. overall, of course, our two flagship projects gmes and galileo are important contributions to the lisbon strategy, ensuring that europe's industrial and technological base for space-based applications remains strong. as regards gmes, i am very pleased to tell you that the commission has just adopted a communication on the organisation of funding and cooperation for gmes, following my proposal. the competitiveness council will be dealing with this in a few days. we can say that gmes is on the right track. the first demonstration projects have been launched. we'll be able to keep to the schedule, as far as i can see. we are in the best possible agreement with esa on the space-based infrastructure of gmes. the esa has already made great progress in developing the european satellites which we still need for this system. so it looks good. but one thing still needs to be regulated: we have only research funds available in the community budget for gmes as well. we don't have the operative equipment. we will need a small amount of operational funds for the first time next year, which has already been arranged with the budgetary authority. but we have to find a long-term solution here, because one thing is clear: gmes is not a system that will fund itself, there will be revenues, but they will never cover the costs. gmes is a european infrastructure project. it must be seen as such, and we must ensure long-term funding. we will be drawing up a detailed roadmap and action plan for the future implementation of the gmes initiative next year. in summary, the commission will present in 2009 a proposal for the financing of the first gmes missions in 2011 based on a detailed impact assessment and a cost-benefit analysis. galileo has already been mentioned. i would just like to say that thanks to the good cooperation between the institutions, the galileo and egnos programmes now have a solid legal basis and can become operational. the implementation of galileo and egnos is also planned, but it remains to be seen whether industry can meet the gnss regulation's requirement to complete the galileo system by 2013. this will be apparent during the bidding process. i would like to make a specific appeal to the european space industry to take advantage of the great opportunity that galileo offers and to work closely with us and to really mobilise all the forces and all the resources! galileo is one of our most important, if not the most important, industrial policy project, and we must ensure that it runs smoothly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is true that different international regulations govern procurement practices in the space sector. these practices differ according to whether the goods are services or goods, but also and especially according to which countries have signed the relevant agreements. the commission has followed the principle of strict reciprocity in the promotion of the galileo r & d phase and we hope that this has given new impetus to the negotiations with third countries on mutual market opening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am particularly concerned about this because we have very few european players in the field of space. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political one. but many others are contributing, and i am very pleased to see that in a number of member states, especially in new member states, there is a growing number of specialised space technology companies, small and mediumsized, which sometimes offer highly complex, very advanced services or products. it is therefore important to ensure that large projects take account of small and medium-sized enterprises in the award of contracts, with a corresponding share of 40% provided for, and the commission will do everything in its power to ensure that this share is respected. this is not just a purely economic issue, it is also a highly political one, because this is how we are going to ensure that european activities in space are not seen as a privilege of the few large european spacefaring countries, but that they can be understood as something that all 27 of us are doing and from which all 27 of us are also benefiting!
on behalf of the pse group. satellite navigation systems, networks, services and applications for satellite telecommunications are instruments in which the european union needs to invest. research is one of the key pillars of the lisbon strategy. the galileo programme is one of the priority projects for european research, given its potential to be used for traffic management, monitoring the effects of climate change, emergency response and natural disaster response. last year, the european parliament, together with the commission and the council, managed to identify the sources of funding for the galileo project, which is considered one of the union's strategic projects. i stress the importance of developing an industrial space policy. i would like to recall that the galileo regulation sets a benchmark for the involvement of smes in european industrial space policy. it is time for europe to develop a common vision and strategic planning for space exploration.
mr. secretary, i hate to contradict you, but we don't have one problem, we have several. but they're not demographic, they're political, social and ethical. we say we want a higher birth rate, but 30 percent of the children already born live below the poverty line. the future consequence: poor education, bad jobs, low productivity and low insurance contributions. the council's position on the working time directive is in flagrant contradiction with the intention to reconcile work and private life. infertility is a disease that the world health organization recognizes, but many member states do not. as a result, insurance does not cover the cost of treatment. to pay for one attempt at artificial fertilization, in romania, a person earning the average salary and saving it all, would have to work for nine months. conception requires three or four attempts and another nine months to deliver the baby. the most effective solution, ladies and gentlemen, would be to promote coherent policies and to ensure that the statements made correspond to the measures taken.
madam president, commissioner, the european union must be prepared to face the demographic challenge. social europe must be able to respond to the expectations of its citizens: quality education, an efficient and accessible health system, jobs that allow a decent life and the guarantee of a decent pension after a working life. the union's population is aging. at the same time, few member states have seen a rise in births, with ireland and france being the best performers, as a result of specific policies adopted. at the same time, although at community level the infant mortality rate has fallen to 4.7 per 1 000 inhabitants, there are still member states where it is 12 per 1 000 inhabitants. europe must invest in health, education and social protection. ensuring well-paid jobs means a decent life for workers, but also ensuring the resources needed to pay for pensions. the pension system is a system based on solidarity between generations.
inspections are an important element in ensuring the application and compliance with community environmental legislation. in this respect, the commission's recommendation to establish minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states was an important step forward when it was adopted in 2001. however, the evaluation of the application of this recommendation has raised several concerns. the commission's communication thus notes that there are still considerable differences in the way environmental inspections are carried out at local, regional and national level. in addition, it was found that the national measures adopted under that provision differed greatly in terms of both application and control. the shortcomings of this recommendation do not appear to be satisfactorily addressed in the commission communication. even if it aims to address the problems mentioned above, it avoids a key element that has caused the modest success of the recommendation, namely the very legal nature of this act. i therefore believe that a review of the recommendation alone will only maintain the current uncertainty. only a directive can bring about a substantial and effective improvement in environmental inspections.
in writing. - i voted for mrs gräßle's report because a person involved in an olaf investigation should be able to make comments at least in writing on the matters concerning him, and these comments should be submitted to the member states involved, together with other information obtained during the investigation. this is the only way to present the national authorities with complete information on the case, while respecting the principle that both parties must have the opportunity to present their views. it also ensures cooperation with third countries and strengthens the role of the olaf control committee.
in writing. − the european union cannot have a higher employment rate as long as we have much less well-represented social categories and social groups excluded from the labour market. people with disabilities or serious health problems want to work, but they are often subject to severe discrimination by employers. in addition, they need special facilities for their work, and employers are willing to invest very little in this. the financial measures taken in the member states, and i am referring to romania (the deduction, in the calculation of taxable profit, of the amounts relating to the purchase of machinery and equipment used in the production process by the disabled person, the costs of transporting disabled people from home to the workplace, the discounting from the unemployment insurance budget of the specific costs of preparation, training and vocational guidance) did not have the desired result. the creation of specific enterprises mentioned in the report is a concrete solution for the inclusion of these vulnerable social groups in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted for mrs klamt's report because it offers highly skilled immigrants the opportunity to work. the report states that eu states are obliged to give priority to european citizens, which benefits romanian citizens, in view of the restrictions applied to the labour market by several eu states. the report gives the person who meets the conditions of the directive the opportunity to be issued with an eu 'blue card', initially valid for two years, which can be renewed for another two years. if the employment contract is for a period of less than two years, the 'blue card' will be issued for the duration of the contract plus three months.
in writing. − demographic projections that show the eu's working population to decline by 48 million by 2050 and that the dependency rate is set to double to 51% by 2050 indicate that in the future more immigrants with different skills and qualifications will be attracted to some member states to counterbalance these negative trends. the considerable differences in the criteria for defining and admitting highly qualified workers clearly limit their mobility across the european union, affecting the efficient redistribution of legally resident human resources and preventing the elimination of regional imbalances. as a representative of a member state which joined the european union in 2007, i voted in favour of this report, which will effectively address current and future demands for highly skilled labour, taking into account the principle of community preference applied to eu citizens.
in writing. − i voted for the amendment of the eu regulation establishing a medium-term financial assistance mechanism for member states' balance of payments; thus, the financial assistance ceiling was increased from eur 12 billion to eur 25 billion for eu member states not in the euro area experiencing balance of payments difficulties. the european parliament considers that non-euro area member states should be encouraged to seek possible medium-term financial support within the community to deal with their balance of payments deficit before seeking international support. the current situation is further evidence of the usefulness of the euro for the protection of the euro-area member states and invites the non-euro-area member states to join as soon as they meet the maastricht criteria.
in writing. − the dramatic decline in bee populations and, therefore, pollination is threatening fruit, vegetable and plant production in the european union. the decline in bee numbers is due both to various parasites and mites in the atmosphere and to pesticide spraying. the main problem is infection with the varroa parasite, which manifests itself in deformed wings and abdomen, underdeveloped bees, unable to fly and with a very short lifespan. left untreated, varroa can wipe out an entire bee colony in a matter of months. long-term use of pesticides has also contributed to the decline of bee populations, even when they were used to kill mycoses and parasites. some scientists believe that another cause is electromagnetic radiation from cell phones that infiltrates the bees' navigation system, rendering them unable to return to their hives. research in this area will need to be developed to find solutions to combat diseases affecting bees, and farmers' efforts to reduce the number of applications of plant protection products during flowering will also help to halt the decline of these insects.
in writing. human rights must demand our attention even as the world faces economic crises. poverty and lack of perspective, political and economic, always lead to the deterioration of people's living conditions. respect for human rights takes a backseat to urgent issues and it's easy to overlook, blinded by our own economic woes, that there are places in the world where people are still being sentenced to death. i am referring to nigeria, a country of 140 million people, where 725 men and 11 women have been awaiting execution since february this year for acts such as armed robbery, murder and treason, according to amnesty international. furthermore, disturbing reports reveal that many of them have not received a fair trial and their testimony has been extracted under torture. these people are going to be hanged for things that they may not have done because in nigeria the poor are completely unprotected from the justice system, even though we are talking about a member country of the international criminal court. the international community has a duty to make all efforts necessary to ensure that the nigerian government declares an immediate moratorium on all executions and converts all death sentences into prison sentences
- mr. president, romania has held elections for the parliament and i assure you that the government that will be formed will pursue a sound economic policy. i would like to thank the french presidency, the european commission for the way they have moved, quickly and competently, in a response to the problems raised by the international economic and financial crisis. i would have liked to see more in the package on the non-euro area member states, on access to liquidity in case of urgent needs.
the removal of barriers to the free movement of workers guarantees decent and fair working and living conditions for all european workers and is an effective tool in the fight against social dumping and tax evasion. i ask that a special item be inserted on the european council's agenda for the removal of barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. i believe that two years after the accession of the two countries this step becomes necessary, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis. energy security and the energy-climate change package must also be on the european council's agenda. europe must not produce less, but more ecologically and efficiently. therefore, member states should be supported to make significant investments in modernising facilities in energy-intensive industries, increasing productivity and developing transport infrastructure.
in writing. i would like to refer to the recent communication presented by the commission on the european economic recovery plan. i would like to stress the importance of certain provisions in this plan, namely those relating to the adoption of measures to improve the energy efficiency of existing housing and public buildings. the commission announced that, in order to expand the possibilities in this area, it would propose an amendment to the structural funds regulations to support these measures. i think it is extremely important that this amendment should concern the use of the european regional development fund funds for housing improvements, i.e. the increase of the 2% currently provided for.
on behalf of the alde group. – unless we achieve a truly common stance in the eu in favour of real reform, achieving adequate global rules for the financial markets becomes much harder. sensible people would say that a massive failure of both regulation and oversight, together with revealed flaws of an overly simplistic economic paradigm, provide an indubitable answer to what to do. but some still argue that soft regulations should be the norm of the new system. in my view, they are wrong, whether they honestly think so or are driven by parochial interests. one of keynes’ intellectual legacies – that highly volatile capital flows are inimical to trade and prosperity – has shown its relevance in the current huge mess and other crises, including in emerging markets. for decades now a mantra has been heard worldwide: that not much can be done in national policy-making because global markets would punish a government. but is the complexion of global financial markets god-given? are not global markets, aside from their technological drivers, also the product of human beings’ decisions to set rules for finance, trade and investment? the claim that nothing can be done about finance, when it brings about misery, is unconvincing. much can be done in regulating all financial entities (including hedge funds and private equity funds), constraining leverage, dealing with pro-cyclicality and accounting, coordinating policies better, dealing with the rating agencies. the decline of a paradigm which equates market economies with no regulations has to be seen in conjunction with a rising multi-polar economic world in the attempt to forge a new international financial system. on the latter hinges the fate of an open world economic system. unless we do the right things now, we run the risk of crippling our liberal democracies. i hope that the new american administration will be forthcoming in this respect. but we at home in europe have to rise to the momentousness of this period.
the european economic recovery plan provides for smart investment and therefore supports the increase of budgetary allocations by almost €200 billion for the next period under the economic growth and stability pact. i particularly appreciate the willingness of the european central bank to reduce interest rates in order to provide the liquidity needed by the banking system to invest in the real economy. i particularly welcome the proposal to amend the financial framework to invest eur 5 billion over the next two years in developing broadband infrastructure and interconnecting europe's energy infrastructure. i welcome the initiative of the european investment bank and national banks to create a 2020 fund for energy, climate change and transport infrastructure development. state aid may be used to support research and development, innovation, communications and information technology, transport and energy efficiency.
mr president, the roma are a pan-european ethno-cultural community with dramatic social and economic problems. these problems should be addressed primarily by the european union, through an appropriate common policy which requires clear legal bases. we cannot turn into reality the fiction of the roma national citizenship when roma opt out from taking the nationality of a particular state. roma are european citizens without a national project. therefore the models usually applying to the national minorities at the level of the nation state do not work. roma social and cultural integration is a transnational matter and consequently it is first and foremost the responsibility of the european union. of course, member states also have their responsibility concerning roma in terms of non-discrimination, social inclusion and affirmative local measures. but these responsibilities should be seen as having a subsidiary character. when the commission emphasises that the main responsibility lies with the member states, in fact it refuses to undertake its natural responsibilities and goes back to a model which has been proven to be inefficient. we must establish, we must create, a european public space for roma, a mechanism for effective participation of roma in policymaking and policy implementation. without that we cannot really solve the problem. we cannot have a real strategy.
in writing. we must recognise that there has not been enough progress in roma integration since the commission launched its first call for roma integration in 2005. the first step would be to create a policy to promote roma education. this policy should be addressed not only by the state but also by non-governmental organisations whose primary objective should no longer be to identify acts of discrimination but to educate about ethnicity. the solution lies not only in holding public authorities accountable, but also roma communities. some of the causes of unemployment faced by roma are due to illiteracy, lack of education and vocational qualifications, and lack of access to information. the educational reform of this ethnic group can be achieved in three ways: reducing illiteracy, completing studies and specialization or retraining. this reform must respect the specific culture and tradition of the roma, but also link the education system to the values of european culture and civilization. i call on the commission to define a single plan for the integration of the roma at european level, based on cooperation between existing intergovernmental projects and those of ngos and representatives of school institutions, so that access to quality education is elevated to the rank of a fundamental objective of community policies.
in writing. – approval of the proposed neighbourhood agreement with the state of israel would incorporate israel into certain community programmes under the european neighbourhood policy (enp), a policy designed to promote reform and stability in the european union’s neighbourhood. designed to take effect immediately, this agreement would require israel to make financial contributions to the european union’s budget in exchange for participation in certain community programmes. this agreement will be subject to review every three years after its approval by both parties. support for this neighbourhood agreement would build upon the existing association agreement and represent a step toward enhanced cooperation on trade and progress in bringing resolution to the israeli-palestinian peace process. in the light of the recent visit to the european parliament by the israeli foreign minister, who advocated the strengthening of the israel-eu relationship politically, and the current action plan just completed by the high representative, the approval of this neighbourhood agreement would benefit both parties by improving each party’s understanding of the other and hastening the arrival of peace and stability in the middle east and mediterranean.
we look forward to the adoption of the european legal framework for small and medium-sized enterprises. the european economic recovery plan provides for the opening of new lines of financing for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. reducing administrative burdens, funding vocational training and creating the european globalisation fund are measures that help to protect jobs and promote entrepreneurship. the european investment bank will make available €30 billion to finance loans requested by smes. however, i consider that this amount is insufficient. i believe that in this period of crisis, the simplification of procedures for granting state aid, the limitation of the period for setting up a company to three days, and the guarantee of payment due by public institutions to smes for services provided within a maximum of 30 days are necessary, mandatory and urgent measures. i welcome the commission's proposal to promote the use of electronic invoices, an investment estimated at eur 18 billion. the development of competitiveness poles based on enterprises investing in research and development of new technologies is also becoming a necessity.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this year we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the eu code of conduct on arms exports. but even though this was a success at the time, we must now express our frustration and bitterness with the failure to make it a legally binding instrument. three years have passed since the council working group on arms reached a technical agreement on a common position. how many more years does the european council need to adopt it? how can we, as the european union, protect our own credibility when speaking against illegal arms trafficking, if we are not able to put our entire house in order? we need a code of conduct to be legally binding if we want to avoid any easy intra-community transfer of arms, which may tempt brokers to look for the weakest link in europe. when we speak of arms exports, we should think at the same time of human lives at stake in unstable countries. we can easily be accused, instead of peacemaking, of fuelling local conflicts in vulnerable parts of the world. i welcome the french defence minister’s declaration that france has withdrawn its reservation on the common position. will the french presidency be able to convince the other member states which are still opposing it? i can only hope so, and wish for the french presidency to make the adoption of the common position in the next two weeks another of the great achievements of its term of office.
mr president, the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the code is both an opportunity to celebrate and a motivation to continue efforts to make it compulsory. however, the very fact that ten years after its adoption the code is still voluntary indicates the complex web of economic, commercial and political interests we are up against. therefore, in spite of our moral superiority in asking for the code’s application to be made obligatory, that is not enough. we need a thorough professional analysis of this body of interests to identify working ways to persuade the arms producers, exporters and politicians to change heart. therefore, as i already said, simple appeals based only on morality, however vocal, will not suffice.
in november, the european commission presented the 2008 report for the republic of macedonia, which highlights progress made over the past year but does not give a firm date for the start of accession negotiations. i believe that the progress made in the economic field, in the field of administrative reform and in the field of judicial reform, as well as the current context in the western balkans, justify the republic of macedonia to hope for a date for the opening of accession negotiations in 2009, given that the efforts of the parliament and the government of the republic of macedonia need to be further supported and made more responsible in creating a democratic climate, with a view to ensuring transparent and democratic conditions for the local and presidential elections in march 2009. i also call on the european commission to take into account the progress made by the republic of macedonia in recent years, as well as the responsibilities assumed by the parliament and the government of the republic of macedonia, and to establish an action plan for visa liberalisation for the citizens of the republic of macedonia. ..the president interrupts the speaker)
on sunday, november 30, a historic event took place in romania as, for the first time by unanimous vote, the left was defeated in the parliamentary elections. the liberal democratic party won the largest number of seats in parliament and could, together with the other centre-right parties, the pnl and the udmr, constitute a comfortable majority for supporting a government led by a liberal democratic party prime minister. unfortunately, the romanian socialists announced prematurely that they were the winners of the elections, and certain socialist leaders in the european parliament, as well as heads of government, were misled by this information. as such, it is natural that the position of these leaders should also change, given the true outcome of the elections in romania.
in romania, the left won the elections because it got the highest number of votes and the highest percentage in sunday's elections, and this cannot be ignored, nor distorted. december 3rd is international day of persons with disabilities. one in four families has a disabled member. in the wake of the economic and financial crisis, we hear almost daily about thousands of redundancies in the member states. in this difficult context, the situation of people with disabilities is deteriorating. how can a disabled person find a job that allows him to live a decent life on a salary when thousands of other people without disabilities are losing their jobs? i call on the commission to take concrete action to support people with disabilities as a matter of urgency. special attention should be paid to rare diseases leading to physical or mental disability. i hope that in 2009, the year of innovation, we will invest more in research to identify ... (the president interrupts)
there is genuine dialogue between cultures, between peoples, when everyone is free to use his or her mother tongue and to exercise his or her individual and community rights. today and tomorrow, we in the european parliament will stand in solidarity with the tibetan people. over 500 people have joined us in this silent protest to demand that tibetans be free to use their native language, practice their religion, and have real autonomy. there are also traditional national minorities within the eu who cannot learn or use their mother tongue freely, and who lack cultural or territorial autonomy. in fact, there are countries where collective crime has been reintroduced in the spirit of world war ii, or there are countries where the rights of traditional national minorities are still guaranteed by the communist laws of the 1940's. the eu can effectively defend the rights of minorities in china if ... (the president withdrew the floor)
the council of the european union should increase the coherence of national and international policies on the issue of food security. high food prices have a serious impact on the situation of the poorest people and jeopardise the achievement of the millennium development goals. the introduction of the mechanism proposed by the regulation is a consequence of the decline in agricultural expenditure. the european community must encourage the growth of agricultural production in the short and medium term in developing countries and reduce the negative effects of rising food prices on the poorest people in developing countries. community aid shall not be used to pay for taxes, duties or other charges. at the same time, this regulation should ensure the protection of european farmers.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to make one important point, following this last speech and the other. the problem is that this billion is not the structural answer to the problem of the food crisis in the developing countries. this billion is, in fact, a rapid response to save, in an emergency, the crops that are coming, that is to say those of 2008-2009 - i think we can rather talk about those of 2009, 2010 and maybe 2011. i would add that the idea behind this is that at some point, of course, this rapid response capability could become permanent. i am sure that i am going to worry a number of member states by saying this. so i was saying this is a quick and untouched response. that's not the structural response. the structural response was, in essence, mentioned by mr le foll when he rightly expressed concern that for many years now the share of development aid budgets allocated to agriculture or rural development has been steadily decreasing. and i'm obviously going to pass on the responsibility for all of this. i think the international community has also been, perhaps in good faith, but a little complicit in this disengagement. clearly, therefore, there is a need to refocus on this issue, and progress is being made. i have already had the opportunity to quote the figures. the ninth european development fund: four countries had chosen agriculture or rural development as a focus area or concentration area in their cooperation with the commission. four, for €650 million in the tenth european development fund. and after much discussion, suggestion, insistence, we have now reached 1 billion 250 million for 25 countries! but 25 countries is never a third. so there's still work to be done. i think, in line with what mr le foll said, that the idea put forward by a number of european union development ministers is that in five years' time bilateral development aid budgets, with a focus on agriculture, should be raised to an average of 10 to 15%, figures which would obviously need to be discussed. this will, of course, allow for structural responses. so this billion it's not going to be intended to do structural response. at least not en masse. he's going for the e.r. i must say that i have a moral problem when we talk about the situation of european farmers in relation to small farmers in developing countries. first of all, i don't think it's right to oppose them. i think that the european agricultural world and, in any case, the family business, are facing a number of problems, but it is obvious that in the case of the billion here, what is the starting point? it was assumed that, as prices had risen, the compensation mechanism provided for in the event of price reductions and income losses for european farmers had no reason to exist. the idea was therefore to use this money in a somewhat symbolic way, to ensure that what was intended for european farmers but was not needed, was allocated to those countries. i do not wish to oppose this. i really don't want to. i think that, of course, consumers, european citizens, have a right to all our services and i regret, moreover, that it is so difficult to help those in need in europe, particularly through the aid which is currently being discussed and which does not seem to be making much progress. let us not link or make our intervention in favour of some dependent on the possible parallel intervention in favour of others, this has nothing to do, it really has nothing to do. we are not in the same order of poverty first, and secondly, we must remain consistent, it seems to me. this is a fundamental question which, in the end, raises the question of the coherence of european policy in relation to agriculture. it was put by josep borrell. the real question, mr president, which we must now follow very closely and which will require a very strong reaction, both parliament - i know it will do so - and the commission, and even some members of the council, is whether our member states, which have accepted this formula, and a number of member states, which have accepted it, forced and constrained, because we had to fight, and i really thank parliament, because i believe that without parliament we would not have achieved this. i even thought at one point that we would not succeed, because the arguments used were becoming more and more specious and limiting in terms of intellectual honesty. of course, mr borrell, the area where we must be vigilant is to see whether the member states or certain member states will not compensate adequately for the commitment they have made here. if that were to happen, it would obviously be a complete fraud and the fight would have to continue unquestionably. i just got back from doha. i have to tell you that i am anything but hyper optimistic about increasing official development assistance. i have to tell you that when we come out of a few hours of meeting i admit that i have a temper can be a little explosive sometimes, but i still happen to be able to control my nerves it's hard to bear that. it is difficult to bear bad faith, to bear speeches that say we need more public development aid, but when you write a text just to reaffirm past commitments, suddenly you no longer agree and you invent all sorts of reasons not to be included in the commitment. and in any case, to leave enough openings and doors open, so that he can run away from his responsibilities and commitments in the utmost dishonor. so we have to fight, we have to be clear on this issue, we have to accuse, denounce, hold accountable, and above all - because i admit i can't stand it anymore - undo, dismantle the double language because that's the most terrible thing because, at the same time that we tell you and give you speeches of an absolutely fabulous generosity, at the same time we multiply the blows of jarnac behind to prevent the commitments from being fulfilled. so, we're not done with this, i know. mr virrankoski, aid must reach its destination, and i believe very sincerely that in this case, aid will reach its destination. i am still calling for some consistency in the fight we want to fight together. when we say aid must get to where it's going, we send the worst possible message to the public opinion that we need to help us push states to increase their official development assistance. we have to stop saying anything and everything about this issue. i believe that the public aid that is implemented by the commission, under your control, under the control of all the institutions that are there for that purpose, is getting to its destination. we can debate our procedures, our rules, the fact that we need consultations, audits, studies, etc. and that it costs and that, in a certain way, it takes money, well, on the other hand, it is probably also at this price that there is a real control and it is also at this price that we can ensure a minimum of quality in the delivery of the work. so you have to know what you want, but i don't think you can say that help won't get to where it's going. in the case in hand, i can assure you that all this is verifiable, controllable and we have all the procedures that you know and that i know. so i think frankly that we shouldn't be too afraid of that. mrs aubert, i think that in the end, through your question or your suggestion, you have translated what, for me, is probably also one of the black spots, one of the only really black spots, of the agreement, of course, since in relation to the stability instrument, you have clearly seen that what is taken from the stability instrument is money that we do not necessarily have for other things and that this is, in the end, a slip, it must be said. and that's what's preventing us, or at least me, from claiming that it's an extra billion. we cannot really say that it is an additional billion, i think mr mitchell also had the intellectual honesty to emphasize this, but, very objectively, i still think that it cannot, if you will, prevent us from being happy because i still did not imagine that we would succeed. so the 240 million euros will be redeployed from the stability instrument, 70 million already in 2009. the available balance will therefore be roughly at the level of 2008, which was 135 million, but in fact, this is not a real argument. it's an argument all things being equal, of course. if there were any new requirements on this instrument, we'd have a problem. but for 2010, the commission was asked during the budgetary conciliation to present a revised financial programming to ensure an orderly increase in the amounts foreseen for the period 2010-13 while keeping the level of the annual margin unchanged. this revised programme will be presented as part of the annual political strategy and we will of course follow it closely. as regards the questions you asked about implementation, the choice will be made on the basis of efficiency criteria, depending on the country. who can participate in this? of course, international and regional organizations, the countries themselves, states and decentralized authorities, ngos, agencies of the member states too. the nature of the operators has been extended at the request of parliament. i admit i was quite opposed to this, but it's your wish, i can understand. the criterion will be efficiency, but if we want to go fast, you have to know that the best way to go fast is to work with the organizations that are made for this, first and foremost, and with which we can, in the end, go much faster because we have rules of engagement with these institutions that go faster. but i assure you that we will play the game completely, as it has been decided by your parliament and as it has been decided in the final agreement. i think europe has risen to the challenge, because i think that here we are talking about the billion for this rapid response to save the crops. i would also remind you of the hundreds of millions of euros that have already been released and spent and that we will continue to spend in the context of emergency humanitarian aid or emergency food aid. europe has been extremely reactive on this. i just want to remind you, and i like to remind you of my own accord, that europe is still 46 billion euros in 2007 per year. i'm still waiting for another donor to do as much for development aid. as for mr droutsas, to say that the european union is washing its hands and that all this will go into the pockets of businessmen, i cannot share that view, it is a bit excessive. i'm not saying that everything is totally wrong. for example, it is clear that the price of fertilisers and the price of seeds can be discussed, debated. we can indeed try to objectify this question. it is probably not unnecessary, in the structural response, to try at the level of the big international organizations - and i am thinking more and more about this - to negotiate with all these big companies which, in the end, produce these very efficient seeds but which are extremely expensive, the same for fertilisers. there are certainly initiatives that need to be considered, including the manufacture of fertilisers on site. there are places we could do that. the creation of supply corridors also eliminates transport costs in a very significant way. recently i met with a group of producers to see what they were prepared to do and we are going to hold a meeting between them and our business forum to see what they can bring to the structural response strategy, which i think is obviously important. mrs goudin, i often agree with you, but i must say that i do not think that protectionist policies are the solution in countries with this problem. i think, on the other hand, that what would be interesting is that - because i believe that protectionist policies risk being totally disruptive, and in any case not responding to the problem regionally, but that is an economic dimension which i will not discuss here now - where i would be prepared to follow you, and where we are working a lot at the moment, particularly with the french presidency, is on the question of how to organise the specific nature of agriculture in developing countries and elsewhere. - europe seems to have a rather short memory - as europe has done for its own agriculture. agriculture has never been considered in europe as a production or as an economic product quite the same as all other economic products. agriculture has always been and has always been treated in a special way. i am not saying that this is my final option, but thinking about regional common agricultural policies, in my view, are subjects of study which would be interesting to pursue fairly quickly with, of course, the objective not of being protectionist but of being protective, is very different. i prefer the notion of protectionism to their emotions of protectionism. i just wanted to say, once again, in closing - i hope i've been as broad as possible - i just wanted to thank you for your agreement, for your commitment. without you, this would not have been possible. we have just shown that when the european parliament and the commission can agree, it is still difficult for the states to resist.
in writing. i consider that the commission's proposal presents a limited number of options for how to grant financial support, as it provides for initiatives to be implemented exclusively with the help of regional and global international organisations. i understand the reasons behind these restrictions, but i support the active involvement of all stakeholders - consumers, producers - as well as civil society. naturally, agricultural conditions vary in developing countries. however, the mechanism should aim at adapting to specific local conditions in order to strengthen and make markets more efficient. small farmers must be protected against the emergence of any dominant market position. the introduction of such a mechanism is beneficial and provides an incentive for farmers in developing countries and is appropriate in the context of the current global economic and financial crisis. however, i would like to stress the importance of the condition that the allocation of funds is complementary and not at the expense of the development actions needed in other areas. we must stick firmly to the commitments we have made and protect our farmers, especially those from the new member states, who do not yet receive the same support as farmers in the other 15 member states.
in writing. the report in question is particularly important because it introduces mechanisms to eliminate or reduce the possibilities of budget fraud through fraudulent intra-community transactions involving vat. the annual damage caused by shell companies is currently estimated at €100 million (16% of the eu's own resources). the reduction of the time limits for both the collection of information and its transmission between the tax administrations of the member states is likely to contribute to a better monitoring of this type of transaction. the commission's proposal is to link the tax administrations of the member states to a common database to register the individuals behind the shell companies responsible for carrying out such fraudulent transactions. in this way, they will be prevented from setting up any other company in the whole of the european union and not just in one member state - as is happening now - by being identified in real time, by checking the database and, further, by the fact that the information reaches the trade register which has been asked to register a new company.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i cannot answer the question why there has been this enormous difference between the estimates and the actual result. i'm not a scientist or a civil servant. like all of you, i have relied on these estimates to be fairly accurate. i am not blaming anyone here, because in fact it was so that you could not know exactly. if we had known exactly what substances we are dealing with every day, we would not have needed reach. but precisely because we didn't know, we needed reach. in this sense, this first result that we are discussing today is a very strong proof that it was necessary to launch this project - i see that guido sacconi is nodding - it is a brilliant confirmation that this legislation, which has been very much criticized in the public, was necessary. the first stage is not about adding to the list of dangerous substances. it's not about authorizing anything at this stage. the first stage is to know what is available and to enable companies to source their supplies from manufacturers who have pre-registered the substances. the system will continue to develop step by step as provided for in the regulation and in the course of this process the list of dangerous substances is likely to increase. the question is, of course, what problems will arise for industry in the further application of reach. we will examine this very closely, based on the analysis of the pre-registrations received. but at the moment, it's not possible to say exactly what that big number is telling us. we would need some more time, and i would suggest that i either come back here to the plenary or to the committee and give you the results of this analysis and also give you a detailed account of what the next steps are.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i was responsible for enlargement, mrs gurmai. but that was four years ago. but nevertheless, i still have some of the knowledge of that time. i'm really very happy to be able to talk to you about this tonight. it was, and still is, very dear to my heart. the commission's report and the report of the committee on budgets are in agreement. we don't have a difference of opinion. it is clearly right that we regard the issue of women's rights and equality between women and men as an absolutely indispensable element in the political criteria which are a crucial prerequisite for the opening and closing of accession negotiations. i can say from my own experience - and olli rehn, who is doing the work now, confirms this - that enlargement negotiations, enlargement processes in general, the very hope that accession negotiations can take place, regularly significantly improve the social situation of disadvantaged groups. the governments and parliaments of the countries concerned know what europe expects of them. i do not think there is a stronger catalyst for rapid social change in candidate countries or potential candidates than the prospect of being able to join the european union and therefore having to meet certain standards that we have in europe. the reports you have produced, your analysis and our analysis, describe a truly horrifying problem. women are generally underrepresented in the countries we are talking about today, both in the labour market and in political life. domestic violence is widespread. the situation of women in rural areas is of particular concern. girls and women from national ethnic minorities especially roma women suffer from special discrimination, as do disabled women, and far too often, unfortunately, girls and women are victims of human trafficking. it is therefore natural for the commission to develop programmes in cooperation with the candidate and potential candidate countries to improve these conditions. i don't have to go into detail here. there are a large number of programmes aimed at empowering the governments and authorities of the candidate countries to deal with the problem properly. but there are also projects and programmes based on the principle of self-help, which support ngos and other social groups. i can assure you, mrs gurmai, that the commission will continue to use its resources to help strengthen women's rights in the balkan countries. this clearly includes - i have said this before - the support of women's organisations and ngos. i believe that a credible and serious prospect of accession for these countries is the strongest stimulus to encourage them to do what is necessary. we should not be under any illusions. everyone in this room knows that these social processes take time. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to take any action in this area. we cannot be satisfied with making beautiful plans of action that look great on paper. i've seen dozens of them. that doesn't mean anything's really happening. the real work starts then. i am very grateful to the european parliament for showing such great interest in this work.
in writing. – social developments in the balkans in terms of gender equality have unfortunately been notorious for the lack of improvement in this field. even though some of the balkan countries have been given candidate status for eu membership, the situation of women is becoming increasingly worrisome and hardly improving. in order to sustain the relative position of women in the balkan societies, the eu must become more involved in the slow democratic process which characterises most countries in the region and encourage the fostering of legally binding instruments with regard to women’s rights and liberties. furthermore, positive discrimination should also be a concept employed by the governments in the region, in the same manner as in the eu member states that apply it. nevertheless, in order to recreate a stable post-conflict environment, it is imperative to promote the development of an equal society that protects the position of women while avoiding the re-establishment of the ‘patriarchal’ institutions that have characterised much of the past. the participation of women in the decision-making process is essential to achieving a substantial change in their status in society and will have concrete significance for future improvements.
in writing. the report on the situation of women in the balkans discusses one of the most topical issues: the place of women in contemporary society. the situation of women in the balkans is raising several alarming signs as the process of democratic stabilisation is under way. in addition to being exhaustive, the report covers essential and generally applicable chapters such as: women in the labour market, the fight against stereotypes, women's health, women in decision-making, violence against women and trafficking in human beings. these themes are all the more edifying in the context of countries that have undergone major changes in the last 20 years. the difficulty of assessing the situation in these countries is worrying. women are discriminated against, whether they want to or not. one example is the "unofficial" labour market for women, which is perceived as a state of normality in some countries. an even greater problem is found among women who are or are "oriented" toward activities beneath human dignity, such as prostitution, or fall prey to human trafficking. of concern is the fact that many women are also victims of domestic violence. in another line of thought, women need to be more involved in changing mindsets and taking their rightful place in society.
in writing. as the representative in the european parliament of a country in the immediate vicinity of the western balkans, i welcome the progress made by the candidate and potential candidate countries presented in the report, but we need concrete political action to eliminate the discrimination and social and economic insecurities that continue to exist in the region. the conflicts in the region have eroded the image of women in the collective mind and led to the emergence and consolidation of stereotypes according to which the role of women in society is very small, in the shadow of the powerful man. the starting point for their elimination is primary education, and educational materials in schools should promote a positive image of women as equal to men. our obligation is to support these programmes both politically and financially, and the results should be closely monitored during the negotiation process.
in writing. better eu monitoring of the situation of women in the balkans, especially in the candidate countries, is needed. pre-accession funds should also be encouraged to support the balkan countries in the fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution, especially among children, as well as to ensure adequate health services, accessible to all women regardless of race, religion or social status, but not least to create shelters and counselling centres for women who are victims of domestic violence. i also stress the importance of supporting ngos working for women's rights in the balkans, both by balkan governments and by ngos in eu member states. i urge the commission to press the governments of the balkan states to urgently take measures to combat and prevent trafficking in human beings, child prostitution and child pornography, given that the balkans are a transit and origin area for the trafficking of live meat. the need for action by the relevant institutions in the balkans to ensure equal pay for women and men and education against stereotypes should not be overlooked.
mr president, the eu has the potential to be a global leader in the fight against climate change and that is what our citizens are expecting from us. therefore it is crucial to reach a first-reading agreement on the climate change package, not only to meet those expectations but to go to copenhagen with a unified position. i would like to thank my colleagues who have been working long hours to try to achieve this. it is important to keep our ambitious targets, but at the same time we cannot ignore the dramatic impact of the financial crisis on the competitiveness of european industry, which has been greatly affected by it. given this new economic context, it is even more important to consider the wide variety of industrial infrastructures in member states and it should be recognised that some of them have achieved a rapid and large-scale reorganisation and modernisation. this is why we need to offer reasonable and appropriate flexibility to member states and industries to achieve their co2 emission reduction targets.
the european union has committed itself to finalising the 'climate change' dossier by january 2009. the outcome of the negotiations will be of particular importance at the united nations conference in poznań, where the union's commitment to reducing its carbon emissions and helping poorer nations will be assessed. we must ensure that the targets remain ambitious for the signing of an international agreement, so that developing countries are sufficiently motivated to follow our lead. increasing the target from 20% to 30% after 2020 should remain a priority in the event of an international agreement, even if this transition is made through renegotiation. a more ambitious long-term objective will ensure the credibility of the european union as the main actor in the fight against global warming and lead to favourable outcomes in the forthcoming copenhagen negotiations.
in writing. the european commission adopted the package of legislative proposals on climate change and renewable energy on 23 january 2008. the package allocates to member states, by criteria and targets, the eu's targets agreed at the 2007 spring european council, namely to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by at least 20% by 2020 at eu level and to increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption by 20% and to increase energy efficiency by 20% by the same time. you can negotiate on all planes, but you can't negotiate with nature. meeting these commitments - to reduce ghg emissions and increase the share of renewable resources - therefore involves major structural reforms in all economic sectors. the assumption by romania of the national obligations arising from the legislative package will generate important economic and social effects. the completion of the negotiations on the 'climate change' package represents an opportunity to balance tackling climate change, strengthening supplier security and promoting competitiveness, growth and job creation.
in writing. we are pleased that the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the 'climate change - renewable energy' package are now moving towards consensus. the european council of 11-12 december 2008 will decide on all elements related to this package. in preparation for the 11-12 december talks, romania together with slovakia, hungary, bulgaria, lithuania and latvia submitted on 28 november a proposal to redistribute the revenues from co2 auctions according to the following formula: (90 x) % + 10 % + x %, where x is distributed to those ms that in 2005 had more than 20% reductions in the kyoto emission ceiling. romania also considers that the review clause in 2014 is absolutely necessary, without however calling into question the 20% reduction targets (or the 10% target), precisely to allow for possible adjustments of the mechanisms, depending on the concrete conditions of the period in question (which cannot be foreseen now).
in writing. − i voted for this report because the agreement aims to contribute to the effective enforcement of competition law by promoting cooperation between competition authorities and reducing the likelihood of conflicts. korea is the eu's fourth largest non-european trading partner and the eu is the largest foreign investor in korea. given the growing importance of this partnership, it seems appropriate to include korea alongside the other three partners with whom the ec has signed agreements on cooperation on anti-competitive practices. the agreement provides for notification of enforcement activities by one of the competition authorities that could affect the important interests of the other party, mutual assistance, including the possibility for one party to request the other party to take enforcement action, coordination of enforcement activities, and the exchange of information. confidentiality measures are also provided for. in a broader perspective, the importance of multilateral trade and multilateral competition rules for the achievement of free and open cross-border markets should be emphasised.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe it is very important to establish trade relations which respect the principles of competition not only with korea but also with other countries outside the union. we must promote cooperation between the authorities in this field and thus avoid the likelihood of conflict. as i said in my opinion in the imco committee, which was voted on this week, we need to offer european citizens the widest possible range of trade opportunities and ensure that all bilateral agreements with third countries respect consumer rights and competition principles.
in writing. − the report calls for special attention in the context of the global crisis which calls for responsible and moderate consumption. the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy aimed at the gradual implementation of multiannual plans and recovery plans for fisheries resources of community interest. moreover, the precedent was set by the multiannual management agreement concluded with norway in 1997 for the north sea herring stock, which has had satisfactory results. if the proposed measures were implemented, they would lead to better planning of areas and fishing activities. there are several elements to guarantee the fishing grounds, the total allowable catches and the special fishing permit. the ecosystem approach to this activity is particularly important, ensuring that exploitation is responsible for all species, many of which are endangered. moreover, it aims to develop it into an activity that is environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
in writing. - the report seems to me extremely important, given the need for harmonisation of legislation in the eu member states in many areas, including maintenance obligations. the revised version of the regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments and cooperation in matters of maintenance obligations clearly states the criteria and situations when such an obligation is imposed by law. the maintenance obligation is personal and successive, personal and unilateral. the regulation simplifies the life of citizens of the european union states on the procedure for establishing maintenance obligations. more specifically, once the judgment is given in one member state, it will produce equal and binding effects in all member states, which is essential if we consider that many citizens are domiciled in a member state other than the one in which they were born or in which the maintenance decision was given.
in writing. − this regulation will simplify citizens' lives. simplification was desirable, first of all, as regards the procedure for establishing maintenance obligations. thus, the regulation provides that, once a maintenance judgment has been given in the member states, it produces binding effects in all member states. it also provides for the organisation of an operational system of cooperation between the central authorities of the member states to help creditors recover amounts owed to them. the final result, which we are facing, is a compromise that enjoys our support. this would allow eu citizens to benefit from it as soon as possible. as regards the implementation procedures, the european commission must continue its work. we can only rejoice to hear that there is such an intention and hope that in this way citizens will be able to reap the benefits as soon as possible. however, effective implementation is the cornerstone that would ensure the existence of a common, harmonised system for the recognition and enforcement of maintenance decisions in the european union.
in writing. − in the current difficult economic environment, small and medium-sized enterprises could, in many cases, be the first and most affected. given that in some member states, such as romania, smes contribute more than 60% of gross domestic product, support measures are necessary, welcome and above all urgent. the new eur 30 billion package for sme lending from the european investment bank is also welcome, and i hope that these loans will be easily accessible, including to small businesses in new member states such as romania and bulgaria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on measures to improve the environment for smes in europe because they are of fundamental importance for the economy of the european union and thus for romania. small and medium-sized enterprises provide over 100 million jobs and are an important factor in economic growth. especially in this period of economic crisis it is necessary to support by all means at our disposal this sector which can be the basis of economic recovery. support the implementation of the new european investment bank package providing for eur 30 billion for sme lending and call for the development and expansion of this fund in the future. i think it is very important that member states also create and implement measures to support smes at national level in addition to those at european level.
thank you, mr. president, and colleagues. on behalf of all romanian women, i would like to thank you today for the extraordinary honor we have already had twice, to receive the award of the international association for the promotion of european women. special thanks to ms rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, vice-president of the european parliament. the first romanian laureate was maia morgenstern, a great actress, awarded in 2004, and the second laureate for this year is monica macovei, former independent minister of justice in romania. monica macovei deserves this recognition for the extraordinary effort she has made to make romania's european path one without turning back and without barriers such as safeguard clauses. the second item concerns the republic of moldova. an independent television station is refused the renewal of its licence. it's about pro tv. the action is one in a series of many others designed to curb freedom of speech in this country. i therefore ask the european commission and parliament to be firm this time and to demand explicitly and urgently that the authorities in chisinau put an end to these abuses. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. president. i'm glad to have commissioner spidla in the room. the european union is based on the four fundamental freedoms: goods, services, capital and people. on 1 january 2009, two years will have passed since the accession of romania and bulgaria. the accession treaty between the two countries, signed in 2005, allows member states to introduce, on a bilateral basis, barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers for a period of at least two years and at most seven years. some member states removed these barriers before 2009, while other member states announced, for reasons of internal policy, that they would continue to maintain these barriers. i believe that in this period of financial and economic crisis, the removal of these barriers becomes imperative. the elimination of barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers means respect for european principles and values, it means respect for the fundamental treaties of the european union. i demand the removal of the existing barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. thank you, sir.
mr president, the outcome of the council meeting in brussels last week and the conclusions of the un climate change conference in poznań have been positively welcomed by many meps in the european parliament. for ordinary citizens, it is difficult to understand what it means to buy or sell pollution allowances for co2 or what the risks of carbon leakage are. however, what they have to understand is that europe has become the champion in dealing with climate change and will continue to be so for the future. romania and other eastern european member states welcome the offer to receive more free co2 emission permits, as well as the new compromise to increase the size of the solidarity fund. in this way, industries such as cement, chemicals and glass will not have to delocalise their factories, jobs and co2 emissions to other parts of the world. i look forward to tomorrow’s plenary debate on the whole package and thank all the rapporteurs and meps involved.
social europe must guarantee every european citizen a decent living on his or her salary. decent work must ensure a decent living. respect for an employee involves setting a work schedule and a rest period that allow the employee to rest and spend sufficient time with his family. children need parental guidance and supervision, and the lack or diminishment of time spent with the family can have negative consequences on the children's education. no employer should be able to require an employee to work more than 48 hours a week. i think that the working time directive should deal more closely with the specific situation of medical staff on duty. i support the report by mr cercas, which protects the interests of employees without ignoring the legitimate interests of employers, by giving them the possibility of adapting their working time to their needs. i also welcome the amendments which stress the importance of collective agreements.
in the current context of the financial crisis, which has direct effects on the economic and social lives of european citizens, the working time directive is a key element of european social policies. mr cercas' report is a rational and consistent approach to the process of evaluating the conclusions on the application of the directive at member state level. the directive is now a flexible instrument, setting a level of protection below which action cannot be authorised to the detriment of the health and safety of workers.
during the long debate on this report, a concern was expressed - that the majority obtained at the first reading could not be achieved at the vote tomorrow, because those who have joined in the meantime would have changed the balance of power in this chamber. it is very true that in the council the right-wing governments have the same position regardless of geographical position, east or west. but something else needs to be clarified. eastern workers are equally firm in supporting all the amendments proposed by the european parliament and rejected by the council. the trade unions in romania, for example, will also be represented here tomorrow in strasbourg, aware that the rights won are not won once and for all and must always be defended. their message is simple: to the existing problems, a much more effective solution than no-limit work is to stop the unlimited enrichment of low-paid labor, including that of eastern workers.
in writing. i welcome the affirmation in this report of the social vision of the european left, with the representatives of the socialists rightly criticising the violation, by allowing voluntary exclusion clauses from working time, of the principle of no derogation from legislation on the health and safety of employees at work. while flexible working hours, based on the nature of the work and the abilities of each person, might be beneficial, i cannot help but think of the many abuses suffered by employees. i am referring to the case of romania, where overtime is neither calculated nor legally paid in many cases, where overtime is not the result of an employee-employer agreement but of the employer's discretionary will, not to mention the endangerment of the health and even the lives of those who have entered a maze from which they can only emerge at the risk of losing their jobs. the pretext of stimulating labour competitiveness often hides exploitation. i think it's preferable to limit this to 48 hours. as regards duty time, i consider it unfair that 'the idle period of duty time' should not be considered as working time and, therefore, paid.
the european works council and the procedure for informing and consulting workers in undertakings or groups of undertakings are indispensable instruments for the protection of employees. the works councils must be very active, especially in situations of company restructuring. in the case of multinational companies or groups of companies, it is essential that the employees of the company in the member state where the redundancies occur are consulted and sit at the negotiating table. where a group of undertakings takes important decisions concerning the future of the undertaking and its employees, the employees of the undertaking in the member state where the restructuring takes place must be informed and be able to participate and influence the decision taken. until now, the european community has only provided financial assistance to firms in restructuring situations. i think that this assistance should also be given to dismissed employees.
in writing. the legislation we have now has been in place since 1988, it is outdated, modern toys include electronic components and make noise. the safety of our children is our top priority. this new directive supports this idea and is a great improvement on the previous one. we must ban dangerous substances to avoid exposing our children to unnecessary risks, they cannot read labels and are not aware of the risks they are exposed to. i think that the improvements which have been made to the directive as a result of the negotiations are not excessive requirements for industry either. importers must ensure that toys imported from third countries are safe, do not endanger the safety of children and only choose toys that comply with european standards. the authorities must make strict controls of the market. we need modern legislation for the sake of our children.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs rühle, and the shadow rapporteur, mr toubon, for the excellent work they have done, given that this report is a technical one. mr. president, we currently have 27 national defense equipment markets, which means we're facing an inefficient use of resources. a positive vote for this proposal for a directive could represent a significant step for member states on defence-related issues. a new standardised licensing system for defence-related products would be implemented. member states are to decide to set the terms and conditions for each type of licence, including the types of products each regulates in the wake of the companies using the licences. if a company wants to purchase a product under a licence issued in another member state, it must be certified by their own member state. the creation of different types of licence for intra-eu transfers of defence-related goods and services would reduce the barriers that currently impede the movement and trade of defence products within the internal market, while also reducing distortive competition. the implementation of these measures is only part of a wider initiative to increase and facilitate the frequency with which security and defence procurement projects will be undertaken, of course in compliance with international conventions. in conclusion, i would like to express my confidence that the compromise amendments which have been negotiated represent a middle way to the benefit of all. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to salute the directive under discussion for taking an important step towards simplifying the bureaucracy of the national regimes on defence-related transfers within the community. i appreciate that the directive will accomplish its objective: diminishing uncertainty concerning the circulation of this type of product throughout the community while retaining national decision-making in the matter. it will also help bring about, even if not directly, uniformisation and standardisation in a very diverse market, thus ultimately helping integration in the field of defence, security and foreign policy within our union. the problem will be in practical application, meaning that the standards now introduced should not be nullified through exceptions, which in turn cannot be completely eliminated, given the sensitivity of the matter. i conclude by saying that the directive under discussion, or rather its future improvement, will also be useful in indicating the limits of further integration in the field of defence and security acceptable to the member states at a given moment in time.
on behalf of the pse group. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr groote. the commission proposed a 60% reduction in particulate matter emissions and an 80% reduction in nitrogen oxides for compression-ignition engines. this requires, as appropriate, the introduction of diesel filters or the recycling of exhaust gases and the introduction of selective catalytic reduction devices. the commission proposal also covers spark-ignition engines and introduces requirements for the introduction of a common methodology for testing and measuring emissions and for globally harmonised on-board diagnostic systems. these are important for the control of emissions during the use of vehicles. the early setting of limit values for nitrogen oxides emissions gives vehicle manufacturers the confidence to plan for the long term at european level. i welcome the possibility for member states to provide financial incentives for new vehicles placed on the market which comply with this regulation. in particular, in the context of climate change and the economic crisis, the granting of these incentives will stimulate the production of more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles. thank you, sir.
the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund are instruments put at the disposal of the member states for the economic development of the various european regions. however, the use of these financial instruments is perceived as being highly bureaucratic. for the period 2007-2013, an approach based on the calculation of the maximum eligible expenditure instead of a forced reduction of the co-financing rate shall be used. the proposal to amend the regulation aims to replace the proportionality provision for monitoring operations below eur 200 000 by not applying the provisions of article 55, operations co-financed by the european social fund and operations co-financed by the european regional development fund or the cohesion fund whose total cost is less than eur 1 000 000. the retroactive application of this amendment simplifies the management of operations co-financed by the structural funds, both in terms of calculating the maximum eligible expenditure and in terms of monitoring. the reduction of disproportionate administrative burden will be of particular benefit to smes carrying out projects in the fields of environment, social inclusion, research, innovation or energy. thank you.
in writing. the impact of tourism on coastal areas is important for territorial, economic and social cohesion and the mid-term review of the 2007-13 budget will need to take this into account. romania has a large black sea coastline, as do bulgaria, ukraine and turkey. this, combined with the fact that the mouths of rivers flowing into the sea should also be considered, will require the national integrated tourism plan for this area to have as its objectives both sustainable tourism and a better quality of life at the local level. the romanian national authorities, as well as regional and local authorities, will give priority to the use of structural funds to develop sustainable tourism in the black sea coastal area, cooperation and synergy at the regional level being absolutely necessary, through cooperation including the instruments of european policies. an integrated approach is needed in the community's cohesion, transport, energy, social and health, agricultural, maritime and fisheries policies, but especially in the environment, in order to create synergy and avoid contradictory interventions.
in writing. tourism has important potential for social and economic development as well as for social and territorial cohesion. we must take account of the geographical particularities of the coastal regions. their development depends considerably on income from activities related to the proximity of the sea, estuary or delta areas, such as tourism, fishing, transport. in general, coastal regions can only be accessed by means of an efficient and modern transport infrastructure. i believe it is important for the member states to develop specific strategies and take concrete action to develop tourism in coastal areas, taking into account the specific nature of the environment and its protection. member states must diversify tourism services according to the specific characteristics of each region (cultural, sports, seaside, historical tourism) to reduce the negative impact of seasonality. i recommend that for tourism development, member states should use not only structural funds for regional development but also for economic competitiveness and renewal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of morocco, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, in view of the development of institutional and commercial relations with morocco.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of croatia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, with a view to developing institutional and commercial relations with croatia.
in writing. - article 2 of the agreement replaces the traditional national designation clauses with a community designation clause which allows all community carriers to benefit from the right of establishment; - article 4 harmonises provisions of bilateral agreements which are anti-competitive (e.g. binding commercial agreements between airlines) with community competition law. when negotiating the horizontal agreement with the government of the republic of india, it was emphasised that the agreement does not affect the volume or balance of traffic rights. to this end, the contents of a letter addressed to india by the european community and the member states have been established.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1338/2001 laying down measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, as it is a realistic and effective proposal for the fight against euro fraud.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1339/2001 on the extension of the effects of regulation (ec) no 1338/2001 laying down measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting to the member states which have not adopted the euro as the single currency, as this extension is beneficial in the fight against counterfeiting of the euro throughout the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by member states of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 48 of the treaty, in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital. furthermore, following examination of the proposal, the advisory group reached the unanimous conclusion that the proposal is limited to a simple codification of the existing texts without substantial changes to them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive on the tax exemptions applicable to the permanent importation of personal property of natural persons from a member state because, when examining the proposal for a council directive codifying council directive 83/183/eec of 28 march 1983 on tax exemptions applicable to the permanent importation of personal property of natural persons from a member state, the group agreed that the proposal was in fact limited to a simple codification without any substantive change to the documents to which it relates.
in writing. - i was convinced that the report of mrs christa prets would get a favourable vote. i believe that media literacy is needed so that the recipients can better understand all media products and know how to guard against their possible negative effects. but to do that, they need the information and knowledge that media literacy provides. every member of the community must be able to seek and use information, to communicate freely, openly, without fear of facing a reality for which they are not prepared. measures should be taken from primary school to ensure adequate media education to provide the skill sets needed for active participation in society. media literacy aims to provide community members with the opportunity to critically analyse media products in order to make them less vulnerable to those who control information.
in writing. − i voted for the council's common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european training foundation because the common position includes many of the empl committee's amendments. the main amendments to the commission proposal concern the scope of this regulation, the functions of the agency, the general provisions, the management board and the appointment of the etf director. the issues of how to strengthen the relationship between the ep and the agency and the ep's representation on the agency's management board were also resolved. article 7 provides for 'three experts appointed by the european parliament without voting rights' as part of the management board. parliament may appoint either external persons or meps, while remaining free to choose its preferred level of representation on the management board. in addition, before being appointed, the candidate selected by the governing board is invited to address the competent committee (s) of the european parliament and to answer questions put by its (their) members (rule 10).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council decision 2001/470/ec establishing a european judicial network in civil and commercial matters, since the creation of a european judicial network in civil and commercial matters between member states by council decision 2001/470/ec of 28 may 2001 (4) follows from the idea that the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice within the community requires the improvement, simplification and acceleration of effective judicial cooperation between member states and effective access to justice for persons involved in cross-border disputes.
in writing. − i regret that the jukneviciene report was not debated in parliament before its adoption. the ppe-de group supports this report, but we would like to draw attention to some problems in this area for which new solutions are needed: the knowledge of european citizens about their rights in crossborder proceedings, the knowledge of legal practitioners, of judges, which is extremely precarious. i hope that these issues, which are a concern of parliament, will be more prominently on the future agenda of the commission and the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending the conditions of employment of other servants of the european communities because the contracts of local assistants are to be administered by paying agents whose role will be to ensure the proper management of the parliamentary assistance allowance allocated to each member, for which they will assume responsibility, thus putting an end to the uncertainties and ambiguities which characterize the current regime and which have been the subject of several criticisms. accredited parliamentary assistants, on the other hand, will be subject to special treatment under the staff regulations and, more specifically, under the conditions of employment of other servants of the european communities (ces). the proposal for a regulation which the commission has put forward following negotiations based on the findings of a bureau working group chaired by mep martine roure is exceptional in nature and is also complex and in many respects complicated. these issues were taken into account in the report and were the subject of lengthy and detailed discussions within the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the busuttil report as it calls on the commission to bring about improvements to existing eu legislation to ensure the protection of businesses and individuals against misleading advertising. once this report enters into force, the authorities of the member states will be able to take joint action to prevent the spread of fraudulent practices by annuity companies in the future and to introduce effective measures to stop the activities of these companies and to punish those responsible. in addition, victims of fraud, who are generally smes, will have an effective remedy to cancel contracts concluded as a result of misleading advertising and to recover damages. we have also received numerous letters from romanian businesses that have been victims of this kind of fraud. once the busuttil report is adopted, public awareness will be raised on this subject and i hope that the number of businesses falling victim to these practices will decrease.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what are the lessons of the french presidency? there's three of them. lesson one. the european union needs a strong presidency, exercised for a longer period of time in relation to the processes it has to manage, and by a dynamic and competent personality who can devote himself entirely to european interests and affairs. so we need at least the lisbon treaty. europe must not be personalized, it is true, but it must be personalized. lesson two. the european union needs a presidency which is able to forge compromises between the representatives of the nations, relying on the representatives of the european citizens. so we need a stronger parliament because a united europe does not threaten the nation states. it is anarchy and neo-feudal fragmentation which constitute the inevitable alternative to european integration and which threaten the integrity of nations. lesson three. the european union needs economic governance that balances sustainable growth with social solidarity and cohesion, and if a multi-speed europe, even if undesirable, proves inevitable, this europe must be structured according to the difference in political will and not according to the level of economic development. for the rest, congratulations and thanks. to every lord, all honor.
, in writing. the current economic crisis requires extraordinary measures as more and more europeans face the spectre of unemployment and financial recession. raising the deposit guarantee ceiling for the general public is a welcome measure to preserve confidence in the banking system. an initial ceiling of €50,000 and then €100,000 is all the more appropriate for countries with a nontraditional banking system, such as romania and other former communist countries. at this point it is important that each state takes its own measure because otherwise there is a risk of panic among the population. romania is not among the countries with many deposits above eur 50 000. but psychologically speaking, raising the guaranteed amount can only produce positive effects considering that the deposits of the population decreased compared to september by 6 percent in bucharest alone. this means that some 600 million euros have been withdrawn in just a few weeks, a situation unprecedented in recent years. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2007-08.
in writing. i would like to start by congratulating the french presidency on the way it has handled the difficult period facing the european union as a whole. the model you leave behind will become a model for the eu presidencies that follow, through rapid responses, flexibility and adaptation to difficult internal and external situations. the approach to internal issues, relating to the dynamics of european integration, the union's sustainable economic and social development and an external policy based on the cornerstone of the european union - the promotion of peace - is decisive for the future of europe and at the same time in line with the fundamental principles of european integration. secondly, i would stress the importance of the 3cs, namely communication, collaboration and compromise, the defining elements of european policy, tools which were used with maximum efficiency during the french presidency, given the difficult period we faced, from the point of view of the relationship with the most democratic institutions in the eu, the european parliament and the national parliaments.
in writing. the french presidency has been a very successful one. his programme of action successfully combined the political determination, pragmatism and diplomatic tact that were absolutely necessary to overcome the crises that arose. its lines of action were very ambitious, allowing important decisions to be taken at eu level: the adoption of the european pact on immigration and asylum, the agreement on the energy/climate change package, the union for the mediterranean, a new agreement on the common agricultural policy. three unforeseen events marked his agenda, but they also demonstrated his strength to mobilise on behalf of the eu: the irish people's rejection of the tl, the conflict in georgia (8 august) and the lehman brothers bankruptcy, which marked the beginning of the current financial and economic crisis (15 september). i congratulate the french presidency on a successful mandate. he managed to manage the consequences of the irish no (at the european council of 11-12 december, ireland committed itself to ratifying the at once again before the end of 2009) and led the mediation mission between moscow and tbilisi, a diplomatic success which, however, brought back to the fore the need for an effective and coherent cfsp at eu level. last but not least, it has succeeded in getting the member states to agree to a number of major community projects, such as those on environmental protection and immigration.
, in writing. i congratulate the french presidency on the work it has done to reach an acceptable compromise on the energy-climate change package. its adoption gives the european union a leading position in the fight against climate change by example and commitment. the european union will have the arguments in copenhagen to negotiate with the rest of the world so that, at global level, we can contribute, through a joint effort, to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i congratulate the french presidency on its involvement in the adoption, by conciliation, of the third maritime package, erika iii. building on lessons learned from maritime accidents in recent years, the eu has tightened up its rules on maritime safety and established specific measures and clear responsibilities in the event of maritime accidents. although not enough, progress has also been made in sustainable transport, the single european sky and road safety. i would have liked to see progress during the french presidency on the road package, the energy package and the telecoms package. the wide-ranging debates in parliament and the council on the impact of rising energy and food prices have also shown european citizens that the social agenda is a priority for the european union.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mr turmes, on his report. the promotion of energy from renewable sources requires a strong commitment by member states to modernise energy infrastructure, to functionally separate and interconnect european energy networks so that renewable energy producers can have access to the energy transmission and distribution network. the european economic recovery plan provides for significant amounts for energy efficiency, energy from renewable sources, interconnection of energy networks and energy efficiency improvements. so, promoting renewable energy can create new jobs and economic growth. substantial investment is needed to gradually reduce dependence on fossil fuels and to modernise and make existing energy production facilities more efficient. as regards biofuels, the union should invest in research for second generation biofuels ...
in writing. the european council recently discussed the energy-climate change legislative package. the main concern was the financial and economic crisis. we cannot ignore the food crisis that is involved. in europe today, economically viable agriculture is a necessary condition for ensuring food security for its population. i understand the concerns of my colleague, mr turmes, about biofuels and the opposition to the 10% target for biofuels, supported by the commission. there are voices that blame energy crops for the food crisis and the rising food prices. however, these crops account for only 2% of current agricultural production in europe. there is a risk that an unjustified increase in biofuel production will compete with food production. this risk can be countered by well-defined legislation and by setting precise targets in national action plans. we can't ignore the benefits of using biofuels, like reducing our dependence on fossil fuels, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in countries with high agricultural potential, such as romania, bulgaria or poland, the use of biofuels is a viable socioeconomic alternative for rural development and environmental protection by exploiting the potential of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
in writing. the adoption of this directive will result in increased investor confidence and a stable regulatory framework, which is essential for a timetable of future investment to achieve the ambitious 2020 targets. the renewable energy directive creates economic opportunities for the development of new industries and approximately 2 million jobs to be created by 2020. this is very important in the current financial and economic crisis. the proposal for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources sets legally binding targets for the overall share of renewable energy for each member state. the share of renewable energy in total final energy consumption is expected to increase from 17,8% in 2005 to 24% in 2020. 11% of gross domestic energy consumption will be provided by renewable sources in 2010. in the coming period, the national target set for the use of renewable energy sources in electricity production will be met if measures are taken to: -stimulate investment in energy efficiency improvements throughout the entire supply chain, production, transport, distribution, consumption; -promoting the use of liquid biofuels, biogas and geothermal energy; -support for research and development and dissemination of the results of applicable research.
the only option we have is not to produce less, but to produce smarter and greener. it is important to reduce emissions, but to ensure economic growth and job preservation. compared to the 8% reduction set by the kyoto protocol, romania has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 43% between 1990 and 2005, unfortunately due to the restructuring processes of heavy industry companies and despite the dependence on fossil fuels. although it would have been more advantageous to refer back to 1990, i welcome the flexibility and solidarity granted to the new member states through the transitional period required to make significant investments in improving the efficiency of enterprises. we have obtained, by amendments, the free allocation of allowances for central heating of dwellings and for heating or cooling installations made by efficient cogeneration, the support of low-income households from the revenues obtained from the auctioning of emission allowances and the exclusion of hospitals and small installations from the scheme for the trading of emission allowances. thank you, sir.
in writing. – last week, the council and the ep negotiators reached a historic agreement on the climate change package. i welcome the compromise with a bit of a heavy heart as the package has been significantly watered down compared with the initial proposal of the commission and the vote of the ep committees. at a time when urgent and consistent action is needed to tackle climate change, europe opted for a slow transition to a low carbon economy by means of derogations and free carbon allowances. despite these drawbacks, the compromise is an important breakthrough that will set the foundations of a more sustainable economy. the biggest achievement is the fact that the objectives and implementing principles are enshrined in legislation and everyone acknowledged the need to embark on a cleaner path of development. furthermore, fighting climate change effectively can only happen if everyone is on board and this compromise gives the eu more bargaining power to bring the international partners on board. last but not least, i will support the agreement because i truly believe that this is not a compromise of empty words but a compromise that can actually be achieved.
in writing. the outcome of the climate package negotiations between the three institutions represents a balanced compromise that will help the european union make a significant contribution to measures to combat global warming, the first bloc of states to make this commitment through legally binding commitments. we are now in a global financial crisis which has caused concern in most member states about the target of reducing carbon emissions, but the outcome of the summit is a balanced agreement between the need to protect the climate and the need to overcome this economic impasse. in my view, the use of arguments relating to this crisis should not prevent the adoption of the package and i hope that all the political groups in parliament will give it a positive vote. i am pleased that countries that reduced their emissions between 1990 and 2005, including romania, have been recognised for their efforts by changing the distribution grid for auction revenues without changing the overall structure of the package. i also believe that most of the elements of the ets directive that have created significant problems for member states have been addressed correctly and that the end result has been a fair one that will launch the european union into a real mission to combat climate change.
mr president, i welcome the agreement reached last week on the climate change package and congratulate our rapporteurs and the french presidency for their efficiency. it was important to keep our ambitious targets, but in the current economic turmoil we could not afford to impose an impossible burden on our industry and impede european competitiveness. this is why, in particular for the effort-sharing decision, i warmly welcome the flexibility granted to member states to reach their targets while introducing corrective action instead of sanctions. this has always been my position in the committee on industry, but i want to repeat it. flexibility is needed and this is even more crucial when regulating new sectors and, before imposing stricter provisions, we need impact assessments. i am also very satisfied that codecision was ensured in the case of a higher reduction target. it is a matter of principle. our citizens did not send us here not to have a say in such important decisions.
as for geological storage of carbon dioxide, we're talking about early-stage testing of this new technology. the commission intends to carry out 12 pilot projects in a first phase. the council proposed the allocation of 300 000 000 emission allowances to finance demonstration projects. parliament insisted on reducing the risk to the environment and human health posed by the use of this new technology, creating a rigorous legal framework for testing and promoting projects for the geological storage of carbon dioxide, and ensuring the financing of demonstration projects. i think the safety of these deposits is extremely important, but just as important is the safety of the carbon dioxide transport to these deposits. the competent authorities in each member state shall implement emergency evacuation plans in the event of a carbon dioxide leak. special measures should also be taken and financed in the event of the closure of such sites.
i congratulate mr sacconi on his report, which deals with an area of great economic and social importance, as the european economic recovery plan has also shown. this will be achieved through engine technology improvements and technological innovations. from 2012, carbon dioxide emissions from cars should be limited to 130 g/km. vehicle manufacturers must ensure that progressively, from 2012, 65% of new cars and by 2015, all new cars must meet these requirements. a bonus system will be available for machines emitting below the specified limit and penalties for manufacturers will be introduced for machines emitting above this limit. it is therefore necessary for the automobile industry to invest in new technologies to produce environmentally friendly cars. thank you, sir.
the energy package must send a strong signal to investors, especially in the energy sector. unfortunately, the climate change package is not complete without the completion of the energy package. and i say this because the european union needs investment in energy infrastructure, as confirmed by the european economic recovery plan. we need to invest in the interconnection of the european union's energy infrastructure. we want to promote renewable energy, but to do that, we need renewable energy producers to have access to the grid so that the electricity they produce can reach the end consumer. we therefore hope that the next period will see the adoption of this package as a matter of urgency. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to congratulate mrs ayala sender on her report, it is a very important subject, 43 000 citizens lose their lives on european roads and about 1 300 000 citizens are injured. the 43 000 deaths on european roads is the equivalent of one average air crash per week. i think this can no longer be tolerated. i would like to point out that the proposed directive does not deal with criminal sanctions or with points systems where they exist in the member states. i ask that the transfer of data between member states be done with the assurance of the confidentiality and security of the data transmitted and that communications between member states include the available payment methods and the currency in which that payment will be made. i also ask that if the central authority in the member state of residence decides not to follow up the application of financial sanctions transmitted by the member state in which the offence was committed, then it must necessarily notify the european commission. i think this directive is extremely important and that is why i hope that the vote by the european parliament will help the european council to take a step in the right direction, namely to approve this directive. she is necessary. thank you, sir.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs piia-noora kauppi, on her report on the financial collateral directive, in which she made three major changes to the existing directive, namely the exclusion of consumer credit and credit for small businesses from the scope of the directive, the introduction of a five-year limitation clause on the right of member states to request notification or registration and, finally, the extension of the scope of the directive by proposing to extend it to include interbank loans to be eligible for collateral, not just loans from the central bank as was envisaged in the original proposal. i believe that the proposed amendments comply with the european provisions in this area and therefore support the approval of this report. in conclusion, i thank him for all his work in the european parliament and wish him every success in his new role. thank you, sir.
the current economic crisis requires extraordinary measures as more and more europeans face the spectre of unemployment and financial recession. raising the deposit guarantee ceiling for the general public is a welcome measure to preserve confidence in the banking system. an initial ceiling of €50,000 and then €100,000 is all the more appropriate for countries with a nontraditional banking system, such as romania and other former communist countries. at this point it is important that each state takes its own measure because otherwise there is a risk of panic among the population. romania is not among the countries with many deposits above eur 50 000. but psychologically speaking, raising the guaranteed amount can only produce positive effects considering that the deposits of the population decreased compared to september by 6 percent in bucharest alone. this means that some 600 million euros have been withdrawn in just a few weeks, a situation unprecedented in recent years. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2007-08.
mr president, the eu budget is being discussed at a time of rising anxiety regarding the economic crisis which is engulfing its member states. this crisis prompts the commission, the council and the european parliament to think about how the eu’s budgetary resources can combat the economic downturn. a considerably speedier disbursement of the structural funds in the new member states is essential under the new conditions, and the commission’s intention in this respect is more than welcome. however, this intention has to turn into concrete deeds, and the eu budget has to be ready in case additional payment appropriations are needed, as the report correctly highlights. incidentally, this hinges precisely on the simplification of procedures. for the non-euro-zone new member states, the leeway for using the budget stimulus out of their own resources is much reduced because of this financial crisis, and the credit crunch is likely to prevail on the international markets in 2009. therefore, eu funds and other forms of eu assistance within the framework of what i would call ‘credit enhancement’ are badly needed in order to fight the severe economic slowdown which is to be expected. donor countries might relish lower payments from the eu structural funds, with a view to the reorientation of these funds for other uses, but let us not deceive ourselves. if new member states get injured by this crisis more than their intrinsic weaknesses warrant, the effects would be bad for the union as a whole.
in writing. − the proposal for a directive is one of the most important elements of the climate change package, which sets a binding target of 20% for the share of renewable energy in eu energy consumption by 2020. the directive provides for the acquisition of new technologies, the creation of new jobs and the reduction of dependence on oil. the european parliament has played an important role in setting sustainability criteria for biofuels and social criteria which, in the context of the economic crisis, are very important for the citizens of the european union. climate change and energy insecurity are forcing us to promote new ways of creating energy without jeopardizing the availability of food. we need to ensure that the implementation of this directive will not endanger agricultural land or forests and that biofuels from raw materials grown on such land will not be taken into account in the incentives provided. the european union will once again show that it is a leader in promoting wind, solar, hydro and other alternative energy sources.
in writing. − we have supported from the outset the proposal to move from a 20% to 30% target automatically in the event of an international agreement being signed, and last week's negotiations led to a compromise which calls for the way to move to this level to be through a new procedure. this decision was taken as a precautionary measure to take into account the possibility of a future increase in the carbon price, but i am pleased to know that the 30% target will remain a priority to avoid an increase in average temperature of more than 2oc, as agreed at the march 2007 european council. an international agreement means a global effort to combat and adapt to climate change, and financial support to developing countries will provide an incentive for them to engage in efforts to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. to remain credible in its aid to developing countries, the european union must ensure that the funding of cdm projects will support sustainable development in these countries and that part of the revenues from the auctioning of emission credits is used to support them.
in writing. − promoting carbon capture and geological storage technologies will help to diversify energy efficiency and combat climate change. to reduce co2 emissions by 50% by 2050, the use of renewable energy is not sufficient to achieve this without also taking into account ccs projects. this will be a challenge for the european union, given the high capital investment costs of capture and storage equipment, which will however decrease as they are used on a large scale. for this reason, these demonstration projects are not mandatory as they depend heavily on the carbon price and technology. however, the eu has taken an important step towards finding alternative solutions to help reduce greenhouse gases, and the implementation of these projects in the future will stimulate other countries outside the eu to use these technologies.
in writing. − emissions from cars and their negative impact on the environment must not be neglected in the european union's efforts to combat the effects of climate change. the european parliament and the council agreed that from 2020 the new car fleet should achieve an average emission level of no more than 95g co2/km. the car industry has now committed itself to reducing its carbon dioxide emissions to 140g/km by 2008 under an agreement signed voluntarily in 1998. given the optional nature of this target, efforts to reduce emissions have been quite small, with a reduction from 186g/km in 1995 to only 163g/km in 2004. the new regulation introduces a mandatory co2 reduction scheme, a system of penalties for those who do not meet this target and incentives for the creation of innovative technologies. by 2014, 80% of the fleet will be compliant, and the penalty rate for every gram exceeded will be €95 after 2019. the final compromise ensures a balance between consumer needs, environmental protection and a sustainable industrial policy.
in writing. - i voted for mr sacconi's report on the emission performance standards for new cars. the road transport sector is responsible for around 70% of the greenhouse gas emissions produced by the transport sector. especially in urban areas, traffic congestion leads to air pollution in large urban agglomerations. it is therefore important to improve the emission performance standards for new cars. the compromise reached sets ambitious targets for car manufacturers, but also gives them the time needed to adapt production lines to the new requirements. the system of premiums introduced for green cars will provide an incentive for both producers and consumers. climate change will lead to both a change in consumer preferences and a revival in demand for cars. especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, preserving jobs and creating the conditions for economic development are absolutely necessary. the importance of the automotive industry is also recognised by the special measures included in the european economic recovery programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive to facilitate the crossborder enforcement of road safety rules. 70% of road accidents are caused by speeding, not wearing a seatbelt, running a red light, or driving under the influence of alcohol. there are already bilateral agreements between some member states for cross-border prosecution of road safety infringements, but there is no common european framework yet. i would point out that the proposal for a directive only concerns financial sanctions. i believe that the commission's proposal will make a significant contribution to saving lives. it is regrettable that some 43 000 people, about the population of a medium-sized european city, die every year in europe as a result of road accidents. added to this are the 1.3 million people who die each year in road accidents. i regret that romania, with a rate of 13%, has recorded the highest increase in the number of road accidents in the last year. i hope that the majority vote in the european parliament will lead the council of the european union to speed up the adoption of the measures needed to reduce road accidents. to save human lives, we must not hesitate.
national minorities were moved to new countries through no fault of their own. unfortunately, in many of the new member states, they are being punished by collective criminality, by being forbidden to learn their history, their place of residence, their places, their names of rivers in their mother tongue, and a new sport is even being born in some of the new member states: beating up minorities with the help of the police. some would ban any form of self-determination because the eu is fragmenting, they say. but countries like italy and finland, which gave cultural or territorial autonomy to their minorities, did not go bankrupt! all eu member states must be given the opportunity to respect the rights of national minorities.
, in writing. under the charter of fundamental rights, every eu citizen is free to seek employment, work and settle in any other member state. unfortunately, not all european citizens have enjoyed this freedom. the two-year period of labour market restrictions imposed on new member states expires at the end of this year, but eight member states have already announced their intention to extend it for another three years in the context of the financial crisis. according to the commission report of 11.11.2008, there is no conclusive evidence that a significant number of local workers have lost their jobs or been affected by wage cuts due to workers coming from the new member states. keeping labour markets closed prolongs the differential treatment of european citizens. the lifting of these restrictions would help to avoid the problems arising from undeclared work or fictitious independent activities. i therefore believe that member states which still impose labour market restrictions should first take account of the reality of the positive impact that the free movement of workers has on sustainable economic growth. free movement has proved not only positive but necessary.
in writing. without commenting on the substance of this report, which is open to much criticism, i would like to draw attention to an article on which i will vote against - even though an amendment to delete it was rejected in the committee. this is paragraph 46, which recommends the formulation of a definition of national minorities at european level, referring to council of europe recommendation 1201 (1993). this recommendation should not be invoked without a very rigorous clarification of the interpretation given to it, as it contains ambiguous wording, which could be interpreted as granting collective rights to minorities or territorial autonomy on ethnic grounds. i believe that the european parliament should not accept a reference to this recommendation uncritically. even the venice commission - the european commission for democracy through law - has stressed that any interpretation of recommendation 1201 must be particularly cautious.
member of the commission. - to answer mr zwiefka's question, we have certainly spoken to the banks. they also express in their balance sheets and statements the difficulties they are experiencing. but of course all the resources, all the decisions, all the measures taken, both at european level and at the level of the member states, plus the provision of liquidity and the cut in interest rates by the european central bank and other central banks, all of this is aimed at preventing a credit collapse, at incentivising, at creating the right framework for a recovery of the levels of credit and financing needed for households and for businesses. the small and mediumsized enterprises are certainly much more dependent than large enterprises on bank credit financing, since large enterprises, despite the current market difficulties, can go directly to issue their securities, their bonds, to obtain financing on the stock or fixed income markets. small and medium-sized enterprises need the banking channel. we sincerely hope that the banks and the credit system will respond positively to a volume of aid and a volume of support which is necessary on the one hand, but also on a scale which would have been unimaginable only a few months ago. i believe that it is not only governments, the european institutions or central banks that have to assume responsibilities - and we are assuming them - but also banks, insofar as they have been supported by recapitalisation based on public money or by guarantees of guarantees provided with the public guarantee, have responsibilities towards the rest of society and, in particular, towards small and mediumsized enterprises.
i would like to ask you, what is the procedure by which smes in romania can access financing from this allocated budget of 30 billion euros? what is the procedure by which member states can facilitate access to these funds for their smes? you spoke of a plan in france, in the uk... the question is: will it be first come, first served or will the member states, and therefore smes in romania, be able to obtain such financing?
member of the commission. − as i have said, it is a really difficult, sensitive and important subject. one of the ways in which we can help is to promote democracy, the rule of law, counter-terrorism policies and cooperation in the region and also in this specific country. i think there is a window of opportunity. on the one hand we are trying to help to build trust, but we are also closely monitoring procedures and which steps are being taken. of course what you said about the decision not to extradite means not following justice but doing what is important with regard to the pakistani system in pakistan itself, with the aim of eliminating space for terrorism, whether in this country or in the neighbourhood which affected so tragically the situation in mumbai in india. in terms of overall cooperation, i think that the european union, together with many other partner countries, can build stronger links to governments which are really acting more in a preventive mood and sharing more intelligence actions against networks. i hope that the network crackdown in recent days in pakistan will be a good example, but we will still need to see how the process is going on in this country. we are there, at least with limited possibilities. we increased the financial envelope for cooperation with pakistan for the next period, 2007-2010. the envelope contains eur 200 million. part of the focus is really strengthening the rule of law, democratic institutions and the capacity to act in this direction. that is all i can say at the moment. perhaps we will have not only more information but real results in january after the visit to the country by the commission and the coordinator from the council.
member of the commission. - mrs ţicău, you asked about investments in energy infrastructure. the second strategic review of the energy sector adopted by the commission points to the need for the european union to urgently increase its investments in energy infrastructure to further the objectives of our energy policy, such as security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. the council of energy ministers, meeting last week, also stressed the importance of increasing investment in infrastructure, and i am not going to refer to the agreement on energy and climate change, endorsed last weekend by the european council and which you yourselves voted on today in this house. the commission insists - and i believe we have the support of the council and parliament as well - that the current economic downturn should not be a reason for delaying or reducing investment in energy infrastructure. investments in energy and in particular in energy infrastructure should act as a driver for job creation, as a driver for innovation, should enable the development of new activities, the use of new technologies and the promotion of economic confidence. and also, of course, they should have benefits in the sense that our economy will move forward with those investments more quickly to adapt to a low-carbon economy. in the economic recovery plan, approved by the commission and supported by the council, we propose that an additional eur 4 billion from unused resources in the community budget be mobilised by 2010 for transeuropean energy interconnections and related investments; eur 4 billion of the eur 5 billion we have proposed in our communication, in our plan, to be used is directed to these destinations. the european council last week approved the main points of our proposal in this respect, although it remains to be seen how the budgetary authority - both the council and this parliament - will interpret the general statements contained in the conclusions of the presidency of the european council. in addition, the european investment bank has committed significant increases - up to €6 billion per year - to finance investments related to climate change, security, energy supply and energy infrastructure, and at the same time announced its commitment to accelerate the use of the existing credit guarantee facility to help finance trans-european network projects in order to encourage the much-needed increased involvement of the private sector. we cannot finance the volume of investment needed between now and 2020 or 2030 with public funds alone, according to various estimates. finally, an important element, i hope, which was also supported by the european council and was included in our proposals: the decision to launch the european 2020 fund for energy, climate change and infrastructure, in order to finance, between the european investment bank, the national infrastructure financing agencies and other possible actors, capital and quasi-capital projects in the area of infrastructure in general and in particular also in the area of energy infrastructure. so, in the sense of your question, the honourable member will see that in the last few weeks many important decisions have been announced or are being put into effect.
thank you so much for your answer. i would like to mention that it is extremely important to make investments in the energy grid. if we want to promote renewable energy or energy from renewable sources, we need to have producers of this type of energy have access to the energy grid to reach the end consumer. that is why i hope that these financial instruments will become operational as soon as possible and in a transparent manner.
commissioner, thank you for the information you provided. i would like to expand the field a little and refer to both children who stay at home, although their parents are working abroad - and it is good that they also know the language of the state in which their parents work and we should also be concerned about employment in their country - so to cases where children have stayed with their grandparents, and to the fact that it is important that those children who have gone with their family to other countries, where their parents have found a job, be supported to know better and faster the language of the destination state, so that they can prove their intellectual abilities and to be able to acquire knowledge themselves in the course of education.
on behalf of the pse group. i would first like to welcome commissioner figel's presence at this debate and the attention he is giving to these reports and, of course, to congratulate our colleagues, mr andersson and mr mann. as the shadow rapporteur for this report on behalf of the pse and as a member of the committee on employment, i am pleased to approve the implementation of the european credit system for vocational education and training. it is an important step towards harmonising education legislation in eu countries and removing obstacles to vocational training when switching from one education and training system to another. highly skilled workers will be the economic engine of the european union, in line with the lisbon strategy and subsequent meetings on vocational training. in the modern economy, this means workers who speak several languages and have experience of working in multicultural environments. with the differences between member states in the definition of qualifications and diplomas, it is extremely important in the current context to create the conditions for cross-border mobility in the field of education. this will enable the training of highly qualified workers capable of meeting the new requirements of the european economy. one of the consequences of this legislative framework will also be to increase the mobility of students and pupils from our countries, the new member states, whose education and training systems are only partially integrated at european level. the european credit system will benefit students who have not had the same opportunities to work and train in multilingual and intercultural environments as students in the old eu countries. in my amendments i have stressed the need to implement this system as quickly as possible, in order to facilitate the accumulation, transfer and recognition of qualifications for people who wish to obtain a professional qualification, regardless of the member state of origin or the country in which they are established. sustainable networks at european level between national and regional actors in the field of education and vocational training need to be established on the basis of existing structures. to make these networks and partnerships as effective as possible, a high and, above all, uniform level of quality must be ensured. in this context, i welcome mr andersson's report on the establishment of a european reference framework for quality assurance in vocational education and training. i too would like to stress the need for the instruments provided for in this framework to be implemented by the member states as soon as possible in order to achieve common and as high a quality standard as possible in education. it is necessary to clearly define the conditions for obtaining a full qualification as a result of partial qualifications, it is time to stimulate the mobility of the workforce from eu countries.
vocational education and training are essential tools that provide european citizens with the skills, knowledge and competences needed to integrate into the labour market and a knowledge-based society. this recommendation is very good in general, but i think it should cover two areas, which i have highlighted, the creation of a system of advising european citizens to choose their type of studies and specialisation according to their personal abilities and, perhaps, the creation of a platform for quality in education. i would like to stress that a complementary approach to education is needed to better align the educational process with the real needs of the labour market. strategies for lifelong learning and mobility are essential to increase the chances of employment in the labour market. i would like to thank the two reporters and wish you a merry christmas.
in the european union, there are still barriers to those who want to take advantage of studies or vocational training modules in another country in their home country. this discourages many and hinders transnational mobility, which is why the creation of a european credit system for vocational education and training, ecvet, could boost student and labour mobility and i think the thomas mann report has very well identified the improvements this system will bring, but also the problems that could arise with its implementation. fortunately, we can draw on the experience gained in the cts transferrable credit system. as a teacher who has dealt with the credit system, i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations. a single european quantitative basis for credit scoring is needed and clear criteria must be established to ensure relevance, transparency, comparability and mutual trust between european states. i also agree with the provision for a trial phase before accepting the system, because european countries have different education systems and i believe that more time is needed to harmonise the 27 vocational training systems.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion on the european credit system for vocational education and training, i would like to stress once again the importance of creating and implementing this system in order to improve the quality and attractiveness of vocational education and training. the need to implement ecvet stems from the desire to reduce the variation in learning outcomes due to the existence of different vocational training systems. there is a need for more transparency in vocational qualifications and continuing education. the implementation of ecvet must be based on a common commitment to the principles of quality assurance in vocational education and training, and the encouragement of partnerships between educational institutions, enterprises and national authorities must be a key aspect in order to develop an environment of mutual trust. last but not least, i would like to mention that the ecvet system focuses on learning outcomes rather than on the time spent on acquiring knowledge, skills and competences.
on behalf of the alde group – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr moreno sánchez, for this balanced report. i am thankful that he took on board most of my concerns and even my criticisms. frontex is an essential instrument in immigration policy and has proven its necessity and efficiency. however, it remains an overly-politicised body which is too dependent on member states’ goodwill and on national interests dictated by the press and public opinion. it was crucial to remind member states of their moral duty and commitment. it is also important to recall that frontex is a first-pillar community body. as such, it should not only respect the eu’s fundamental values in its activities, but also work for their promotion, particularly in a field which touches upon critical questions relating to migration and freedom of movement. however, the legality of its actions could be called into question. first of all because the coordinating intelligence-driven operations carried out by frontex are based on risk analyses and threat assessments conducted under the secrecy rule. this means little transparency and no democratic accountability. secondly, because the joint operation is coordinated by frontex, this creates an externalisation of the border which calls into question its compliance with the eu’s obligation of the principle of protection for asylum seekers and refugees. i therefore call for a comprehensive assessment and review of frontex’s operations and its accountability, involving parliament. i would also ask the commission to fully evaluate frontex’s activities with regard to their impact on fundamental freedoms and rights, including the responsibility to protect. finally, i believe the focus has so far been quite closely on maritime issues but, as mentioned, all the migration routes must be tackled. land routes will soon require close attention also, on the eastern borders, and for once we should be proactive and tackle the issue before an emergency situation arises there as well.
first of all, i would like to welcome the rabit rapid intervention team exercise organised at the eastern border of romania at the end of october 2008, under the coordination of the european agency frontex. this type of exercise, the third of its kind so far, has demonstrated the important role that frontex plays in providing support to member states that are the external border of the european union and therefore require increased technical and operational assistance. i also welcome the agreement signed earlier this month by frontex with the georgian border police, which is an important step forward for border security and the fight against illegal immigration. the long-term border management strategy proposed by the european commission is welcome at a time when member states with southern external borders are facing major problems caused by the phenomenon of illegal immigration. this strategy must be complemented by the efforts of neighbouring countries to strengthen their own border security. neighbourhood policy action plans should therefore promote projects and financial assistance for securing the borders of third countries. as regards parliament's assessment of the package on the long-term strategy for the management of the union's borders, i regret that the discussion of the frontex and eurosur reports was not carried out in parallel with the commission's proposals on the entry-exit system, the registered travellers' scheme and the electronic travel authorisation system esta, so that we could have an overall view of the future evolution of the management of the eastern borders in the european union.
i would like to stress the particular importance of some of the considerations contained in mr moreno sanchez's report and in the commission's communication, namely those points where the challenge of the overland migration routes from the eastern border is recalled and i would like to stress that the eastern borders of the union must receive greater attention and greater resources. indeed, according to some estimates, some 25% of illegal immigrants currently in the union come from the eastern border states and entered the union through the eastern borders. the eastern external border of the european union is not only very long, but also very difficult, because of our neighbourhood. also, along with the problem of illegal immigration, there is the danger of organized crime, whose main routes intersect in this geographic area. as the representative of romania, which manages over 2 000 km of the eastern external border of the union, i too stress the importance of giving this border the attention it deserves.
in writing. – first of all i would like to express my optimism with regard to the future of the frontex agency, taking into consideration the rather encouraging figures from the activity evaluation of the agency. however i entirely share the rapporteur's view that frontex has to be accompanied by a legal immigration policy in order to effectively fight illegal immigration. it is not sensible to try to build a fortress europe by focusing only on illegal immigrants because as long as economic development gaps will persist, migration will also be a reality. moreover, i agree with the need to fully respect human dignity and fundamental rights while protecting our external borders, because this is part of the european values. i would also like to stress the importance of the solidarity between the eu member states. given the suppression of the border controls within the schengen area, member states could not be more interdependent, they are jointly responsible for the border security. this is why all member states should get involved in frontex activities and provide the necessary resources. last but not least, cooperation with third countries should be a priority as well, in order to increase frontex's efficiency.
the introduction and use of new technologies in the judicial act to the greatest extent possible is essential. there's no way that justice can lag so far behind other areas. so a strategy in this regard must, of course, be taken very seriously. we must, however, look at the situation as it is, and keep our feet on the ground. in the 21st century, there are courts in the european union that do not have computers or internet access, as this report also highlights. regardless of the method of search, access to legal information is still very difficult, both for legal practitioners and, above all, for ordinary citizens seeking to defend their rights. i am convinced that the european funding programmes for civil justice, as well as for criminal justice, will provide more funds in the future to remedy these shortcomings. further efforts are also needed on the part of the member states to make efficient use of the funds currently available. the report on the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters, voted on two days ago, raises very similar issues. i am sorry that this report has not been debated. improving the way the network works is undoubtedly important and brings added value to european citizens. the same problems persist, however, as i mentioned earlier, namely the lack of information, the lack of translations into all the official languages, and the difficulty of accessing crossborder judicial documents. i thank you for your attention and i hope once again that these issues, which are a major concern of parliament, will be more prominently on the agenda of the commission and the council in the future, especially as citizens expect concrete measures from the european union to simplify their daily lives.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs diana wallis, mr manuel medina ortega and mr lópez-istúriz white, on their excellent reports. e-justice is a necessity given that the number of people involved in cross-border litigation in europe is estimated at 10 million and information technologies in justice could significantly contribute to improving the accessibility and efficiency of the european legal and judicial system. that is why mrs. wallis' report and her efforts deserve our full consideration. i am also convinced of the particular importance of the resolution on the authentic instrument. as a lawyer from romania, i cannot help but point out that the benefits of the authentic act and of graceful, non-contentious justice are very great. the most important form in which preventive justice is manifested in romania, as in european civil law countries, is the authentic notarial act. i understand that mr. medina ortega wishes to refer exclusively to authentic documents and to make a distinction between authentic public documents, issued exclusively by a specialized professional, delegated by public authority, and those under private signature, on the other hand. however, regardless of the outcome of the debate and whether equivalent instruments will be included or will be the role of another initiative, i believe that this report must ensure, have the objective of ensuring, the protection of the citizen and his legal security, cross-border family and property relations, by proposing the mutual recognition of authentic instruments.
i welcome the initiative on the circulation of authentic instruments throughout europe, as it will contribute to the development of the free movement of persons and business entities in the european union. although physical borders have been abolished, legal ones persist, as evidenced by the complex procedures, varying from one state to another, for enforcing contracts concluded before a representative of the public authority. it is our duty to give every citizen the possibility of being covered by the provisions of a european authentic instrument drawn up in one member state in another member state of the european union without any further procedures. i welcome the initiative and the report by mrs wallis on e-justice, as i believe that the adoption of this report will ensure that european citizens have access to the european legal and judicial system through the use of information and communication technology. the rapid administration of evidence at minimal cost and the simplification of judicial procedures through simple and useful tools will facilitate citizens' access to justice in cross-border disputes. for touching these...
mr president, i want to thank all colleagues for supporting the written declaration on fibromyalgia. it is the most beautiful christmas present we can give to millions of fibromyalgia patients. thank you all. (applause)
mr president, i will read it in english as amended: ‘whereas the effect of the joint operations coordinated by frontex is to create an ‘externalisation of borders’, which could call into question member states’ compliance with the eu’s obligations concerning the protection of asylum-seekers and refugees’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because labour mobility is a fundamental right conferred by the treaty on eu citizens, and thus becomes one of the main pillars of the european social model through which the objectives of the lisbon strategy can be achieved. i welcome the report because, in addition to drawing attention to the obstacles to the free movement of workers from the new member states on the labour market, it brings important elements to the european action plan on labour mobility presented by the european commission, such as support for programmes linking education and the labour market, mutual recognition of diplomas and the expansion of the eures network.
in writing. − there is no better justification than the presentation of concrete data: the romanian press has just today presented the results of a control carried out by the romanian consumer protection office. the inspectors found that 90% of the toys checked had deviations during a recent inspection. some toys did not have instructions for use and were not age-appropriate. inspectors also found toy pistols and swords that were considered dangerous. other toys had small parts that could be easily detached. according to the results of this audit, china remains the main source of dangerous toys and yet remains the main supplier to the european union. in the interest of our children, drastic measures are needed in this regard.
in writing. − vocational education and training is a subject which has gained particular importance in recent years. the introduction of a european credit system in vocational education and training will contribute to the development and expansion of european cooperation in the field of education. it also leads to improved mobility and portability of qualifications at national level, both between different sectors of the economy and within the labour market. vocational education and training is crucial in europe's efforts to respond to the social challenges posed by ageing societies, to reposition itself in the global economy and to resolve the economic crisis. i therefore consider it important that member states validate non-formal and informal education, especially as the number of graduates in vocational education and training will fall sharply between 2009 and 2015, but at the same time the need for vocationally qualified staff to fill vacancies on the labour market will increase significantly. i therefore believe it is particularly important that european bodies actively support partnerships between member states and european companies in this area a cost-sharing system.
in writing. − the commission's drive to stimulate the simplification and harmonisation of eu company law with the aim of reducing the administrative burden by 25% by 2012 is a prerequisite for making european companies more efficient and making the community business environment more attractive, generating savings estimated at eur 150 billion. the initiative to revise the regulations contained in the fourth and seventh company law directives to exempt not only small but also medium-sized enterprises or parent enterprises with subsidiaries considered insignificant from the obligations to present financial and accounting information and to draw up consolidated accounts has the rapporteur's input and support, ensuring in the future the stability and certainty of an appropriate legal framework for a segment that plays a major role in generating jobs in the union. i also welcome the emphasis by the rapporteur on the need for transparency and fair information for all stakeholders, in particular through the widespread implementation of information and communication technology-based financial reporting systems.
