at the december session of the european parliament, false information was heard that minority radio broadcasting in slovakia was on the verge of extinction and that public radio was cancelling the broadcasting of radio patria in minority languages. colleagues, colleagues, slovak radio is not preparing any restrictions against radio patria. on the contrary, since january 2007, rádio patria has, for the first time in its history, an independent broadcasting circuit with 100% coverage of the territory of the slovak republic. it broadcasts 8 to 10 hours of prime-time programming a day, i.e. news, journalism, culture. that's more than ever. no other european public service broadcaster provides such broadcasts for national minorities. mr president, it is sad when a member of the european parliament imagines that under the concept of democracy he can say anything without checking whether it is true. such attacks then create tension and damage the good name of the state.
let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr chatzimarkakis, for his excellent report, which takes account of and pragmatically points out all the aspects of the regulatory framework so important for the future of the automotive industry. in this report, when we talk about the competitiveness of the european automotive industry in the context of global developments, we must first of all take into account what can significantly limit it. i originally thought it was unnecessary to remind the european commission of the importance of this sector for the economic and social development of the european union, but after the commission came out with a proposal to set emission standards for new passenger cars, i am not so sure anymore. if this were the case, the commission would probably respect more the majority opinion of the european parliament as well as the expert groups, which speaks of promoting a more integrated approach. the european parliament also takes a critical view of the period during which the european automotive industry is technologically capable of meeting ambitious emission targets with the least possible impact on its competitiveness. the european parliament made this clear in mr davies' report and also in this report, when the committee presented its view by a large majority that car companies could reach a co2 level of 125 g/km by 2015. if we really want to reduce emissions in the whole automotive sector, we need to look at these things in a more comprehensive way. the proposed step would certainly lead to a slowdown in the replacement of old cars, in addition to other negative impacts such as the ability to buy new cars for socially disadvantaged citizens. this aspect would probably be most dominant in particular in the new member states, where the rate of replacement of old cars is very low for economic reasons of the population, which would definitely not contribute to the reduction of co2, but on the contrary.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − madam president, the committee on women’s rights and gender equality stresses in its opinion that the most significant health problems presented by women and caused by their working conditions are musculoskeletal disorders and psychological problems, on the one hand. on the other hand, it stresses that the need to analyse the risks that women and men face and take appropriate measures does not mean the reintroduction of protective policies of exclusion, nor does it mean developing different jobs for women and men. even though the framework of community occupational safety and health (osh) directives is neutral in its approach to gender, it is not a sufficient reason for work-related risks to women’s health and safety to be underestimated and neglected compared to the risk to men’s health and safety, both in terms of prevention and research. workers, male and female, across the european union are exposed to different risks in their workplaces: chemical, biological and physical agents, adverse ergonomic conditions, a complex mix of accident hazards and safety risks, together with various psycho-social factors. therefore, women and men do not constitute a homogeneous group. consequently, strategies and measures to improve osh must be specifically adapted to particular workplaces, taking into account the fact that some factors might affect women and men differently. the opinion also stresses new risk factors such as harassment, violence and bullying by clients at the workplace, mainly in public service sectors that employ mostly women. finally, it emphasises the need to consider the introduction of hazard, risk and prevention concepts in school curricula and the educational systems in general as an effective means of building a strong and sustained preventative safety and health culture.
as a member of parliament and a doctor, i welcome the commission's plan to reduce accidents at work in the european union by an average of 25% and i recognise the need to implement more effective measures in all member states, which are very different from one another. in addition to industries such as metalworking, construction, electrical work and forestry, i would also like to point out the high risk of work of doctors and health workers, who in the course of their profession are exposed to a huge risk of infection and disease from aids, tuberculosis, hepatitis and many other infections. i am also concerned that the reduction in the number of occupational accidents and, in particular, of occupational diseases has not affected, for example, migrant workers, workers with precarious contracts, low-skilled workers, women in certain enterprises such as small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to highlight the measures taken by some states which have successfully implemented comprehensive rehabilitation after injury as a condition for successful reintegration into the workforce.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, kurt lechner, for his hard work in preparing this report. he succeeded in simplifying the council's overly complicated and bureaucratic proposal with new amendments. i shall take advantage of the presence of commissioner kuneva in this debate which is important for european consumers. i would like to take this opportunity to stress once again the irreplaceable role of consumer organisations, which must be given the space they deserve in every member state of the union, but also adequate support from the commission. in order to improve the quality of consumer protection, individual consumer organisations need to be financially strengthened to be able to educate consumers and provide independent advice also on consumer credit, in particular for the most vulnerable groups of consumers. commissioner, despite the fact that you have done a lot to encourage consumer organisations and that your arrival has given the green light to consumer protection policy, i am asking you to help us in 2008.
i want to protest very strongly against the present speech by mr cashman, because i belong to the group of nonattached members and i have to say that before, as a member of the council of europe, i prepared a paper on the prohibition of child labour and i also participated in the preparation of another report on the rights of the child, so i am now protesting very strongly against the speech by the rapporteur, who said that it does not matter to him whether any of the nonattached members votes in favour or not.
the rapporteur of the committee on foreign affairs, requested for an opinion. - thank you very much, mr president, and thank you also to mrs angelilli for her report. i welcome the fact that the slovenian presidency has chosen as one of its priorities the issue of children in armed conflict, which was also one of the themes of my opinion. my report to the foreign affairs committee also deals with the need to register children at birth. unregistered children are invisible, and thus often become victims of sexual abuse, trafficking, are imprisoned with adults, act as active combatants in the military, since it is not possible to determine whether they are already adults or not. a child's birth certificate guarantees his or her name, nationality and access to, for example, medical care. i also regret that this report is not due for adoption until january. most of the opinions were voted on and forwarded to the committee before the flight, and the report could therefore have been voted on earlier. solving the problem of children is very urgent. this is also evidenced by the recent case of the transport of more than 100 chadian children to france. the aim of the action was to help abandoned families in darfur to take care of orphaned children in foster care in europe. however, the un confirmed that in most cases the children were not orphans and were not from darfur but from neighboring chad. the urgent need to address the issue of children's rights is not just a problem for third world countries; it is also a problem for us.
thank you, mr president. the demographic crisis is making every child's life worth living. we cannot unilaterally push for an increase in the birth rate while paying little attention to the living conditions of the children born, to the equality of opportunity, to the provision of the conditions necessary for their mental and physical development. i therefore consider it extremely important that commissioner frattini is committed to making the protection of children's rights a horizontal priority in eu policies. the report, for which i congratulate mrs angelilli, rightly raises certain problems which are urgently needed. the child poverty rate is staggering, because as my colleagues have mentioned, one in five children live in poverty, and this is very closely linked to early school leaving. we cannot turn a blind eye to the plight of thousands of street children and homeless children in the eu member states, many of whom are forced to beg, steal, work illegally or prostitute themselves. a recent unicef study shows that there is no country, no member state, that is not affected by the issue of child trafficking. we know little about the hundreds of children who disappear from institutions and refugee camps each year. there is legitimate concern about violence against children, but there is also an increase in aggression among children. mr president, under the lisbon treaty, the rights of the child are guaranteed by article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights. the report - whose adoption i support - is a first step towards the eu institutions, including parliament, taking serious steps to improve the situation of children by ensuring that their rights are respected more consistently. the member states will then hopefully make the same effort. thank you for your attention.
all member states ratified the un convention on the rights of the child in 1989, but it does not include any sanction mechanism. there are several bodies dealing with the protection of children's rights whose activities need to be better coordinated and publicised, for example by setting up a common website. in this way, we would avoid unwanted overlap in their knowledge. the next step could be to entrust the commissioner for human rights with the protection of children's rights. i would welcome a commissioner to focus on the fight against poverty and all forms of violence in the priority areas. violence against children should never happen, and that is why i believe it is important not only to punish the perpetrators but also to prevent inhuman acts. in this sense, i support the rapporteur's request for the introduction of procedures to allow for better interstate coordination of prosecution, which should in practice ensure that a person convicted in one member state is also registered as a perpetrator of violence against children in the other member states. i believe that this approach will be a significant step in preventing further cruel treatment of children, such as sexual mutilation, sexual abuse, child pornography, kidnapping and trafficking of children. as regards child pornography, i highly appreciate the initiative of the european commission, in cooperation with some banking institutions and credit card companies, to seek to exclude websites selling child pornography from online payment systems. this would help to create a database of sellers of child pornography from which information on the creators and distributors of this repulsive form of trafficking would be submitted to the police of the member state concerned, europol and interpol. recognising the importance of this area, i support the allocation of the necessary human and financial resources to the protection of children's rights. this is about our children's future, our future.
first of all, let me thank mrs doris pack for the energy she has put into the preparation of this report, and at the same time i would like to thank the representatives of the european commission for the initiatives which have led to an improvement in the situation. as rapporteur on the european qualifications framework for the committee on culture and education, i consider the issue of lifelong learning to be very important, mainly from two perspectives. the first is to increase skills, increase employability, overcome labour market disparities and improve geographical and occupational mobility. the second is the pursuit of lifelong personal development and integration into society. the participation of adults in education and training is insufficient. i am positive that we will focus on improving citizens' motivation for lifelong learning. it is essential that in this process we take into account the improvement of the conditions for reconciling work and family life, solidarity between generations and cultures, language learning and improving the quality and prospects of education. the recognition and validation of non-formal and informal education is welcome, the upskilling of low-skilled workers, who make up one third of the european workforce, which amounts to 72 million people, and the training of migrants are important. if we are to reach the benchmark target of 12.5% adult participation in education by 2010, which means the inclusion of an additional 4 million people, one of the conditions for achieving it will be the linking of education schemes at european level with national qualifications frameworks.
ladies and gentlemen, very rapid changes in the structure of the labour market require highly qualified people. low-skilled people remain on the margins of social and economic progress. creativity and innovation are the key factors of the modern age. the more inventive a person is, the more creative a resource for the economy. the economies that are doing well are the economies that have invested in people, in education, in the basic technological and language skills of the workforce. what is important is that lifelong learning awakens the capacities that lie dormant in the personality of people of all ages, waiting to be put to use. i believe that this wonderful report by rapporteur doris pack it is never too late to learn will not be just words, but we can turn it into action. commissioner figeľ, thank you for your personal commitment to lifelong learning.
in writing. the beginning of 2008 the european year of intercultural dialogue: together in diversity is a significant time for the eu. it is particularly strengthened by the fact that the presidency will be held by the new member state, slovenia, for the first time in its first half-year. four priority areas with an emphasis on the implementation of the new lisbon cycle for growth and jobs, energy, climate change and relations with the western balkans can contribute to european cohesion. slovenia has a chance to become the architect of the eu's global leadership in the fight against global warming. the adoption of the euro is currently a hot topic in slovakia. the decision on slovakia's accession to the euro area will be taken during the slovenian presidency of the european union. slovenia is an example for slovakia, as it was the first eu-10 country and the 13th member of all eu member states to adopt the euro as early as 2007. slovakia can learn from and use the many slovenian experiences in its own preparation for the introduction of the euro. i expect slovenia to do everything possible to make the decision to introduce the euro in slovakia on the scheduled date of 1 january 2009 a positive one. i wish the slovenian presidency that its activities will convince 500 million european citizens that even a small country of 2 million is capable of successfully leading the eu during its six-month presidency. i believe that slovenia will be able to fulfil its determination to succeed.
madam president, i voted in favour of the council's common position as amended by the kurt lechner report. the consumer credit contracts directive, after more than six years of legislative work, represents a major step forward in protecting contractual freedom and enhancing the responsible decision-making of the consumer. it should be borne in mind that more regulations do not automatically mean greater consumer protection. too much information can cause confusion for inexperienced consumers and miss the purpose of simplicity and transparency. moreover, they also entail increased costs that ultimately have to be borne by the consumer. despite the continued interest in selling in installments and using consumer credit products, few consumers are aware of the risks associated with consumer credit, such as being unable to repay it due to illness or job loss. i believe that this directive will help consumers to make good choices based on a quick and easy comparison of multiple offers from both domestic and cross-border providers.
madam president, knowledge must be renewed throughout working life, not just during the years spent in school. education is important for personal growth and better job prospects. if enterprises estimate the needs for new skills and labour market requirements, adult education will adapt to these requirements, helping to overcome labour market mismatches. all this takes account of the commission's proposal for an action plan for adult education, and i therefore voted in favour of it. i am in favour of the member states of the european union supporting adult education through active measures, thereby motivating citizens to train and employers to provide suitable conditions for training. these should be economic incentives in the form of grants, tax breaks, contributions or co-financing. the structural funds, and in particular the european social fund, should also be used more actively for this purpose. i consider it particularly important that older people also participate in lifelong learning and thus be able to apply themselves to the labour market.
in writing. - children are individuals with their own rights from the moment of their conception. every child has the right to a family that is the foundation of his education. we must not forget the street children and migrant children who are the most exposed to violence. children's rights must be a key priority for the eu. i welcome the initiative to establish a trusted hotline. in my vote i voted in favour of the eu strategy on the rights of the child, which is the subject of a very good report by my colleague angelilli, which is a valuable testimony. we must recognise that we still lack a legal basis, so alongside a long-term strategy, concrete measures in the field of children's rights must be adopted and put into practice urgently. the ratification of the lisbon treaty will also make the eu charter of fundamental rights, article 24 of which refers explicitly to the rights of the child, legally binding. in the coming days, we will face challenges: to minimise online crime as quickly as possible, to end child pedophilia and the sexual abuse of children and minors, to create rules for international adoption that must be in the best interests of the child, not in the best interests of adults. any form of violence must be prohibited. it's time to turn words into action. the eu must listen to children, who are the foundation of tomorrow's society. the european home must be a safe home for children. if we have happy children, the society will be happy.
let me ask you a few questions and make a few comments. what about the european union funds that have been at the nairobi office since november? why did they wait to be voted in and get paid the day after the election? at that time, there were only preliminary results and the first doubts about the regularity of the procedure. who controls the use of european union taxpayers' money for development aid? if there were doubts about the conduct of the elections, there should have been a clear rule in advance that funds would not be allocated until the official announcement of the results. when i was in kenya a month before the elections, several people warned me, and the commissioner also hinted that the situation could end in violence. if it is funds for people, they cannot be conditional on a settlement. otherwise, we would have to suspend financial aid in many countries, not just in africa. i reject development aid as a means of manipulation. the suspension of financing is a political pressure which is put on those to whom the aid is intended. it is funded by the taxpayers of the european union and the people we help cannot be held hostage by political leaders. agreements should not be made conditional on development aid, when they are often not made conditional on respect for human rights. the people of kenya need our help, whether they're kibaki supporters or odin supporters. they live side by side in slums in extreme poverty. we know that elections were held in africa. according to the kenyan people, even if the counting of the results was not quite accurate, it would not have changed their result. let us not punish the people who depend on our aid, and let us think of the europeans and the slovaks who, despite the serious situation, have remained on the ground and continue to implement bilateral projects. i can guarantee that the funds in these projects are used efficiently and without corruption.
thank you very much, madam president. we pay regular attention to the situation and development of the south caucasus region. the document on interparliamentary cooperation and strengthening of the esdp and the gradual implementation of the action plans are making positive progress. i would like to thank mrs polfer for the way in which she has summed up and put forward this complex problem. the report presented sets out clearly the objectives: the establishment of a market economy, the promotion of economic development and the creation of energy security, in addition to the creation of democracy, the rule of law, prosperity and security. economic growth is accelerating year by year, but the impact on the economic and social situation of the population is not yet visible. an effective eu policy is needed to consolidate the region's fragile democracy and ensure genuine freedom of assembly, press and speech. the georgian example demonstrates the importance of regular dialogue between the authorities and civil society and the opposition. the basic problem is to create political stability in the three conflict-ridden areas. meanwhile, we must face a constant source of uncertainty, the disruptive drive of russia's great-power policy. i am convinced that the eu should take a more decisive stance against the russian side on this issue. the karabakh problem is particularly worrying. the minsk group is doing a consistent job, but we have not moved beyond the deadlock. the negotiating process must be maintained and i therefore consider it important that both principles, territorial integrity and the right to self-determination, be treated equally. the first step is the liberation of the occupied territories around karabakh, the return of refugees and the stabilisation of the region. only after that can the future status of karabakh be determined. thank you for your attention.
for the ppe-de group. i would like to thank mrs figueiredo for the work she has done on this report, which in a way takes stock of the problems faced by women employed in various sectors of industry. some of these seem to be so-called evergreens, such as the gender pay gap, or the under-representation of women in decision-making bodies, or the lack of reconciliation between work and family life. the report also highlights less discussed issues, such as the lack of attention paid to the specific requirements of protecting women at work, or the social problems arising from the relocation of production to areas with lower production costs. the report contains proposals that infringe the principle of subsidiarity or formulate requirements that interfere with the powers of the social partners and the collective bargaining process. the epp-ed will not support these proposals. although the report is more or less a summary of fairly well-known problems, it points to the fact that change in this area is slow, as shown, for example, by the evolution of the gender pay gap. research clearly shows that the tipping point comes after the arrival of children, and the careers of men and women take different paths from this tipping point. the hardest thing to break are critical stereotypes, even if we no longer verbally identify with them. the report also raises the issue of the portability and flexibility of the solution to pension rights, which is becoming increasingly sensitive with the progressive unification of the labour market and the requirement for greater labour mobility. i think it's a problem that needs to be given proper attention.
some european regions, including the prešov region in the north-east of slovakia, are characterised by a higher concentration of textile and clothing enterprises, on which the employment of women in the region depends. if we want to preserve jobs for women in these disadvantaged regions, where the textile and clothing industry has its tradition, we must support the textile and clothing industry as a productive industry by appropriate means, by creating new programmes, such as the presentation and promotion of products at trade fairs and international fairs. the treasury will benefit from the wider application of the european technology platform's strategic research plan for the future of the textile and clothing industry and the need to introduce innovative technologies and new business models. despite the increase in the number of girls in technical and scientific fields of study, barriers to employment are known to cause women to leave scientific careers within industry. scientific work must be continuous, in view of the need to maintain a certain standard of education and knowledge. some scientific institutes do not allow women to work part-time at home unless they are absolutely required to be at work. overworking mentality can be one of the specific barriers, and therefore we see underrepresentation of women in high-tech industries. the main responsibility lies with the member states, and i therefore call on the responsible institutions in the member states to develop and implement policies aimed at reconciling work and private life, allowing greater flexibility in working time and universal access to childcare services. at the same time, employers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, should be encouraged to put these policies and practices into practice by means of effective technical measures and, where possible, financial support. in conclusion, i would like to thank our rapporteur, ilde figueiredo, for her work and our shadow rapporteur, edith bauer, who has enabled us to enrich the report with our views. i also highly value the opinion of my colleague mr dover from the itre committee. mr president, i would like to conclude by asking you to make a technical request. it is very cold in this chamber during the debates, including today's debate, and the cold in this chamber does not create good working conditions for our work as members and has serious consequences for our health. i ask you to see that this unfortunate situation is corrected.
i would like to highlight three key points that relate to this topic. heads of organisations must learn not to put women into unsuitable jobs or jobs where their abilities are not adequately valued. the institutions of the european union must ensure that the organisations receiving their assistance respect the acquis communautaire. even if there are different opinions, society should respect the fact that men and women are different, but complementary. it is a fundamental principle of life and should be a fundamental principle of equal opportunities policy. differentiation and complementarity in the labour market and in society are essential. the figueiredo report explains our responsibility in the transition from the lisbon strategy to the european 'demographic winter'. the resolution rightly emphasises the health risks and the different types of occupational diseases that may be different for men and women. i fully support our rapporteur in her request for a detailed analysis of the existing situations and their consequences. these analyses shall also include specific maternity implications. nothing can justify exposing future mothers to health risks that have a negative impact on motherhood because of their professional careers. similarly, industry has a responsibility not to punish women for wanting to have children and should allow them to return to their place of origin after maternity leave.
thank you, madam president, for giving me the opportunity to address this interesting debate. i appreciate the idea of convening forums on internet regulation and the participation of meps in them. the internet is now an essential part of the lives of european citizens of all ages. it is in disadvantaged regions that access to high-speed internet is impossible. i often envy the advertisements in our slovak public and private media about four times the speed of the internet and its benefits. where i live, we don't have that advantage, and our real options are limited to local resources with insufficient speed. commissioner, what can the commission do to ensure that disadvantaged regions and the people who live there are not forgotten, so that they too have the same opportunities to participate in the digital world?
mr president, as crime continues to evolve and the threat of terrorism grows, europol needs to increase its flexibility. the three protocols amending the 2000-2003 echr have not yet entered into force. however, a law enforcement organisation cannot be effective if amendments to its basic legal instrument take effect only a few years after the decision to adopt them. the proposal for a council decision addresses this situation, which is why i voted in favour of it. the significant change from the present is the financing of europol from the community budget and the application of the staff regulations of the european union. this will increase the european parliament's participation in the management of europol and simplify both budgetary and staff management. at the same time, the european parliament's role in improving the democratic oversight of europol will be strengthened. the community's financial costs are comparable to those currently borne by the member states.
the black sea region, as a production and transit area, is of strategic importance for the diversification and security of energy supplies to the european union. i believe that regional cooperation should include the european union countries as equal partners, alongside turkey and russia, and that is why i voted in favour. i am concerned about the continuing conflicts in the region, which threaten the stability and development of the region. i therefore encourage the european union to become more actively involved in efforts to resolve conflicts in this strategic area, in particular in peace operations, and to work more closely with the governments of russia and ukraine. i also see reserves in the uneven development of the private sector in many countries bordering the black sea. the investment environment for local and international companies in the region needs to be improved by stepping up the fight against corruption and fraud and promoting market economy reforms.
thank you very much, madam president, mr barroso, mr dimas and mr piebalgs, for the proposal you have tabled. i think it's very important for all of us and for the future of europe. the bali conference last december provides the basis for an international agreement to tackle climate change. the bali action plan - roadmap and the adaptation fund are challenges where the european union must take the lead. we have to admit some responsibility for the state of climate change that we have. it is logical that developed and developing countries will not have the same goals. china and india should receive compensation for emission reductions, which should be precisely defined. but without the united states taking this problem seriously, i fear our efforts are a waste of time. the bali conference is not a successor to the kyoto protocol, but hopefully it will act as an incentive to start addressing this problem. in particular, mr barroso, i welcome point 2, namely fairness and respect for the starting positions of the member states and the development of their economies. thank you again.
allow me to express my deep concern at the deteriorating human rights situation in iran, in particular with regard to the use of the death penalty, torture, inhumane treatment of prisoners and the repression of political opponents. we should categorically condemn such blatant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are the foundation of our democratic societies. as a member of the euromed parliamentary assembly, however, i am particularly concerned about the security issue and the fact that iran, despite the opposition of the european union and the international community, continues to develop its nuclear programme. despite assurances that the country is developing a nuclear program exclusively for peaceful uses, it is very difficult not to be concerned about such a development. i'll close by pointing out that russia recently supplied nuclear material, and other evidence tells us that iran is an unreliable partner and we should act accordingly.
thank you, madam president, for giving me your word. the common position adopted by the council does not contain amendments on free trailers, despite the fact that the european parliament agreed at first reading to maintain free trailers after the liberalisation of the european postal market. i was determined to support the vote on amendment no 3 tabled by mrs lichtenberger, which reaffirms parliament's position at first reading. after today's discussion with the rapporteur, mr markus ferber, i was told that the adoption of any amendment would jeopardise the compromise reached for the adoption of the directive on the internal market for community postal services in the second reading and would threaten conciliation. i am aware of the importance of adopting this directive, which, once transposed into national law, allows member states to deal with this problem within the framework of subsidiarity. i therefore call on all member states to ensure, within the framework of subsidiarity and in accordance with the obligations of the universal postal service, the provision of free services for blind and partially sighted persons.
thank you for your time, madam president. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr ferber for his excellent report, which will make the long-awaited directive legally effective as soon as possible. as a result of this legal standard, europe will see the completion of the internal market for postal services as of 1 january 2009. i particularly appreciate the principle of subsidiarity and the fact that the member states are left to ensure that the objectives are achieved by means of legislation that is appropriate to their specific circumstances. however, let me stress, as my colleagues have done, the social aspect of this legislation, which is linked to the rights of disabled people, particularly blind and partially sighted people, and their right to free postal services. i call on my colleagues to support the amendments we tabled in plenary this week, which were adopted by parliament at first reading. for this category of population with extremely low incomes, very high unemployment and a difficult social situation, not to mention social exclusion, such services are appropriate and necessary.
thank you very much, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. the 'bali roadmap' agreed at the international conference, as well as the newly created adaptation fund, are challenges where the european union must take the lead. but the european union must also consider and evaluate realistically what reductions are tolerable. to cut emissions by 25 to 40 percent by 2020 compared to 1990, or even 50 percent reduction by 2050, seems to me like you're just giving reduction numbers without really knowing how much reduction is possible. it's like a lottery with percentages, an unthinking, unrealistic pulling numbers out of a hat. plus, without the participation of the us, china and india, no effort on the part of the european union will have the desired effect, because we cannot solve a global problem unilaterally. if we set our expectations too high, one country won't meet them, then another country won't meet them, and we'll find out we didn't meet them together. in this situation, i think the more rational solution is a less ambitious but realistic reduction. we need only look at how the european union is meeting the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy.
as an alternate member of the committee on climate change, i would like to highlight the significant achievements that the european parliament managed to achieve at the world conference in bali. the european parliament must become a visionary for sustainable development. what do we have to do next? first, we cannot slacken our efforts. the european union must support investment in research and development towards efficient and less expensive technologies. we can't just talk about co2. the imposition of ever stricter environmental conditions is not the right solution, because we could put our european smes at a disadvantage. we must not be immune to new ideas, such as water strategies to heal the climate. a team of slovak and czech scientists led by michal kravčík, a leading expert on the use of water as a healer of arid urban space, has prepared a new water paradigm. concentrating rainwater in water reservoirs is a simple, fast and very efficient solution. i believe that not to channel rainwater, but to store it for future use, not only in america, but also in europe, is a good strategic solution. i hope that the commission and the council will support the ideas of the innovators and that the application of the new water paradigm will find the support it deserves in europe as well.
ladies and gentlemen, in their speeches in the european parliament, hungarian colleagues unjustifiably and regularly attack slovakia. the last were lies about the disruption of the national radio broadcast in slovakia and the insinuation that slovakia should cooperate with hungary on the normalization of the protection of the waters of the little island of žitný on the danube. we have already agreed on the water regime for the whole danube region several times. the last mention of this is in the agreement concluded by the hungarian and slovak government delegations in 1998 - the slovak delegation, which i led - and i remember well that this agreement also complied with the hungarian requirements for this territory. the slovak government has approved and respects this agreement and it is necessary that the hungarian government should also finally approve and respect it.
the situation in the slovak parliament is tense and unusual. the lisbon treaty is to be decided, and opposition mps will not participate in the vote to protest against the anti-democratic press law. this is a startling news, but what is behind it? the government of robert fico has repeatedly taken steps that are contrary to the fundamental principles of democracy and the rule of law. the prime minister ignores the opposition, but as he has said on many occasions, he considers the media to be the main opposition. the proposed law is restrictive and unacceptably restricts freedom of speech and the press. the slovak syndicate of journalists and the osce have both raised concerns about the practice, and the osce has even strongly urged parliament to reject the controversial proposal. i can say, on behalf of the overwhelming majority of opposition mps, that we are supporters of the lisbon treaty and we regret that the slovak opposition has limited means to protest against such a shameful press law.
the european parliament has awarded the sakharov prize to the cuban dissident oswald paya sardiñas in 2002 and the women in white in 2005 for their efforts to fight for human rights in cuba, but solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, requires much more. cubans need more than solidarity with those who can only dream of freedom under the threat of reprisals and imprisonment. the 'damas de blanco' now need the european parliament's concrete help in the release of their husbands, opponents of the dictatorial regime, whose imprisonment in inhumane conditions has deprived them of their health and who are facing death in prison. mr. president, i ask for your help in the release of 45-year-old antonio ramón díaz sánchez, sentenced in 2003 to 27 years in prison. antonio, whose family we have been supporting for a long time on an adoption basis with colleagues peter happy and milan gal, is seriously ill and needs urgent help. otherwise, he'll succumb to his disease in prison.
in a report published on 17 january 2008, the european group of regulators states that since the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roaming on public mobile networks within the community, prices for roaming calls have fallen and operators are not trying to compensate for their losses by increasing prices for other calls. it was also found that roaming calls on mobile networks in the european union are overcharged by up to 20% and that such overcharging is based on the pricing of roaming calls per minute. i appreciate the activity of commissioner reding, who has announced that the commission will deal with the situation. i consider it necessary for mobile operators operating on the market to provide consumers with roaming calls at a per second rate, as they do at national level. i recommend that the document also addresses the pricing of sms and data roaming services.
it has been 50 years since the first euroregion was created on the german-dutch border. since then, many other regions have also started to cooperate with each other. they help each other to solve similar or identical problems, which often occur in peripheral regions. they develop new job opportunities and share their culture. i regard the regulation on the european grouping of territorial cooperation, adopted in july 2006, as a very good instrument for territorial cooperation and a step in the right direction. it allows regions to work together flexibly and has a positive impact on the people, the economy and the business environment of the member states. it is therefore a great pity that the member states have not adopted this useful regulation into their national legislation, even though it should have been adopted by 1 august 2007. many regions are very interested in the european grouping of territorial cooperation because it allows cooperation with other regions, while providing a large margin of autonomy in relation to governments and central administrations. it also has positive effects on the lives of the inhabitants of the regions, since one of the objectives of territorial cooperation is to enable human resources to be developed more effectively and thus to achieve a balance in the development of supply and demand on the regional labour market. it is also important that it should benefit the business sector, in particular by promoting the development of the economy in order to increase its productivity and structure, create new jobs and stabilise those that are at risk. the individual territorial cooperation groups will be able to develop activities that promote employment growth and social inclusion. the regulation will facilitate and promote territorial cooperation between the member states of the union and thereby promote economic and social cohesion. this is a good thing and i therefore call on the council and the commission to take steps to help implement this regulation in the individual member states.
commissioner, the number of projects in the border regions, successfully implemented and currently under way, under the aegis of the euroregional associations, shows that there is a great potential for development activities which could not be realised without the help of european resources. but there must be clear rules, or the money will run out. i hope that this debate will also trigger and encourage interested crossborder actors to get involved in the egtc. in each member state, the person who has failed to fulfil his obligations should be identified. the commission must step up its efforts to ensure that crossborder cooperation does not suffer any detriment. euroregions are crossborder structures which already fulfilled delegated tasks in the implementation of interreg programmes in the previous programming period, especially in the case of small 'people to people' projects. i believe that the euroregions have not failed. i am convinced that, with the active assistance of the commission, the member states, regional and local authorities, chambers of commerce and industry and all the people living in the border areas, both the euroregions and their experiences will be able to benefit from this new egtc instrument.
ladies and gentlemen, i am very sorry that amendment no 3, identical to no 18, concerning free postal services for the blind or visually impaired, was not included in the ferber report. being blind and visually impaired is a handicap that prevents you from seeing the world with your eyes. but i believe that these people will take to heart the 321 votes of the members of the european parliament who voted for this amendment. since the directive has been adopted at second reading, i hope that the member states will, within the framework of subsidiarity, resolve this problem to the satisfaction of the blind and partially sighted.
mr president, please note that i was going to vote in favour of the resolution on the situation in iran, but i did not hear the interpretation well and at the moment of the roll-call vote in the final vote i did not press my voting machine.
ladies and gentlemen, let me say that as the owner of a small hydroelectric power plant, i know what renewable electricity generation is. unfortunately, i also know a lot about the problems, often man-made, that people have to deal with when they want to produce and distribute energy in this way. i also own an older family home, which i extensively renovated in 2001 with my own funds to achieve a higher standard of energy efficiency. i know that the kilowatt of energy saved is as good as the kilowatt produced. i welcome and voted in favour of the energy efficiency action plan for many of the reasons mentioned. at the same time, i am deeply sorry that the european commission, as well as many member state governments, are to blame for the neglect and continued underestimation of the strategic importance of energy efficiency measures and the need to make them a political priority.
mr president, in today's multicultural society, there is also a place for the 12 million roma who live scattered across europe. europe must respond to the often complex issues facing the roma community. it is therefore necessary to propose a comprehensive approach to tackle it. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that the vicious circle of discrimination against roma can break through education and subsequently employment. the is equal programme, which aims to promote employment for marginalised groups, has proven successful in practice. the activities of associations, namely the kolping work association, which has set up counselling centres offering help in finding work for the long-term unemployed, should be appreciated. these beneficial activities are threatened with extinction in slovakia due to late refinancing of the activities carried out. i call for the removal of all obstacles that cause the insolvency of non-profit associations and local governments, and thus prevent further projects from being carried out. i hope that the commission will monitor national strategies more closely and, on the basis of best practice, coordinate the joint action of the member states in cooperation with ngos and roma organisations.
in writing. − the commission has presented the green paper on the european research area at a time when europe is facing a constant transatlantic influx of investment and qualified research workers. to achieve the competitiveness of european research in the world, which is one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, the union must overcome the basic obstacles it faces in this area. i am thinking in particular of the fragmentation of the european research area and the lack of developed european scientific cooperation strategies, the lack of human and material resources and the poorly developed research infrastructures, which can only compete with the world's research centres. i also note the low mobility of scientific staff, expertise and experience, caused in particular by legal, administrative and linguistic barriers. in building the european research area and overcoming its fragmentation, we should give a significant space to our regions. regions should initiate strategies for the development of human and material resources in the field of research and should work towards making research accessible to all, especially young scientists and women. member states should do more to create better working conditions for researchers and take measures to reconcile their professional and family life. equally important is the role of the regions in promoting and securing more efficient research funding, based on commitments embedded in the operational programmes. regions should also participate in the building of european centres of excellence within their territorial sphere, created by linking universities, research institutions and industry.
in writing. - dear colleagues, the time has come when no one can doubt that science is the driving force behind the development of society. the current world trend points to the importance of science and demands its appropriate place in society. the only investments in a knowledge society will make the union competitive, creative and strategically attractive. the commission is also aware of the importance of the formation of a knowledge society, and has analysed the solutions in a green paper entitled 'european research area: new perspectives'. the ep pointed out, through a report to rapporteur umberto guidoni, that investments in education, science, research, culture and information technology already represent future sustainable development. of course, we must be aware that these steps do not bring immediate but tangible results. it's a long way off, but i believe it's with a winning end. the european research area provides a platform for cooperation between research institutions, universities and scientists from the 27 eu countries. however, there are still administrative barriers across borders that hinder cooperation between scientific institutions. the opening of the eu to the east means a significant expansion of the european research area and new opportunities for some 150 000 researchers and an increase in scientific and technical potential. i am convinced that new concepts and innovations in all areas will create new jobs and find new ways of protecting the environment, ensuring greater food and health security, and safer sustainable energy sources.
on february 25, 1948, the communists seized power in a coup and established a totalitarian regime in our country. but events that have been taking place in our country since 1946 have led to this. in the democratic environment of the restored state, czechoslovakia gradually became unfree. this is extremely serious. not only the defeat of nazism but also the defeat of communism are part of the legacy of a united and peaceful europe. this is why representatives of ten member states are sitting here today. i want to draw attention to three things. the rehabilitation of symbols of communism and nazism must be condemned equally. communism and nazism should be viewed as one and the same, especially because of the victims they are responsible for. communist and nazi totalitarianism were both established in democratic states by abusing democracy. this is a cause for caution in the european union today. even the victims of communism deserve a moment of silence in this room.
there has been a lot of discussion about energy efficiency in the past and the current labelling of household appliances that informs consumers about energy performance has not been shown to be a good indicator. the majority of appliances sold are in category a, thus losing a clear signal about the energy saving of the appliance and the manufacturer's motivation to produce energy-saving appliances. in order to motivate consumers and producers, the classification of household appliances into new energy classes needs to be adjusted. the original classification has been in operation since 1994. i therefore call on the european commission to speed up the preparation of a new system for labelling appliances and the upcoming inclusion of additional appliances in this system.
the declaration of independence by kosovo yesterday is likely to be dangerous and will likely set a dangerous precedent for developments in several countries and regions of the world. this act is all the more questionable because it took place with the generous political and diplomatic support of the us and most of the major countries of the european union, and it was clear from the beginning that international law was being violated. the better solution for the balkans would be to intensify the democratisation of relations in serbia with the help of the european union, which would then create a more favourable environment for the consolidation of relations between the serbs and the albanian minority in the common territory. although it would probably be a long-term thing. it is also naive to think that the right of minorities to territorial autonomy, extended by this precedent, will not be an insoluble problem for the member states of the european union themselves in the near future.
ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted with the very good atmosphere of today's debate on the internal market and i thank everyone who contributed to it. of course, in democracies, you have to listen to the opposing views, such as those expressed by mr bloom. i have a son andrei, and i know that the name andrei means strong, powerful, and the bearer of that name, minister vizjak, gives this debate a very strong charge. i note that it is not customary for the council to be represented in such discussions. removing barriers to economic operators and creating favourable conditions for businesses, especially the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, is a prerequisite for a well-functioning european internal market in goods. in the context of the large number of products coming from third countries, we need to find answers to the challenges posed by globalisation. one of our responses is clear legislative rules to ensure that all products imported into the european market meet the same safety requirements as products produced within the community. the basic principle of the legislative package on the marketing of goods is the responsibility of producers for the conformity of their products with the applicable european law on the one hand and the responsibility of the member states, which are the guarantors of the european union's market surveillance, on the other. i confess that the subject of european standardisation has been close to my heart as rapporteur for the european parliament on the financing of european standards and has accompanied me throughout my term in the european parliament. i am becoming more and more aware of the importance of this important policy of the european union and i am delighted with the commitment of commissioner verheugen. as rapporteur for our epp-ed political group on the christel schaldemos report, i also oriented the amendments to increasing the responsibility of importers, reducing the administrative burden on smes, maintaining the new approach as the basic framework for marketing products. i also pointed to the need for more effective information campaigns to raise consumer awareness as a basic fact for strengthening consumer confidence in the eu internal market. in my amendments i have focused on the consumer and the need to ensure that he is protected from products that are dangerous to his health. i pointed to the need for more effective information campaigns to raise consumer awareness as a basic fact for strengthening consumer confidence in the eu internal market. current practice shows that the ce conformity marking does not give sufficient assurance that the product is indeed safe. it is for this reason that, through this legislative package, we have sought to strengthen the importance of the ce marking, to introduce penalties for its misuse, to tighten the rules for its imposition and to strengthen significantly the system of market surveillance. the compromise agreed includes the transfer of parts of the articles concerning the ce marking to the regulation. this is a very good step and in conclusion i would like to thank mrs christel schaldemos and the other rapporteurs for the constructive cooperation that has enabled us to unify the terminology, the procedures and the models for conformity assessment so that we can use them in the revision of the sectoral directives, in particular the long-awaited toy directive towards the satisfaction of all european consumers.
in writing. − i would like to emphasise that the requirement to implement measures to improve the safety and health protection of workers is based primarily on a risk assessment. risk assessment is one of the employer's basic duties when his employees are working in an environment containing agents that endanger their health. if the risk assessment reveals a possible risk, measures shall be taken to eliminate or minimise it. i consider it important that these measures be carried out primarily at source. other measures include, for example, the choice of a different working procedure, technical measures to reduce emissions, the modification of workplace and workplace layouts, the limitation of the duration and intensity of exposure, the availability of appropriate personal protective equipment, etc. i agree that the employer is obliged to ensure the health surveillance of employees whose assessment results have shown a specific health risk. health surveillance includes preventive medical examinations aimed at detecting early onset of health changes and preventing damage to health due to exposure to electromagnetic fields. the results of the health surveillance may give rise to a review of the risk assessment as well as to the implementation of additional measures. in conclusion, as a doctor, i appreciate that directive 2004/40/ec regulates action and limit values for the individual components of electromagnetic fields, as well as the requirements for the safety and health protection of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields at work.
in writing. − counterfeiting and smuggling of goods are now carried out in ways that require an integrated approach to the new tasks of customs authorities and a high level of expertise on the part of customs staff to detect. the eu is a common customs union, so the customs code is one of the most important instruments. the modernisation of the customs code means a complete revision of the original text adopted in 1992 in line with the requirements of the electronic customs and trade environment. what will the modernisation of the customs code mean? firstly, it will modernise control tools, ensure electronic data exchange and the interoperability of national customs systems. it will simplify customs rules and administrative procedures both for customs authorities and for economic operators. the new centralised customs procedure strengthens cooperation between the member states and the european union. simpler, faster and, above all, common customs procedures within a single point of contact have great potential to reduce red tape. after three years of intensive institutional work, we can proudly attribute to the european parliament a significant success in modernising customs. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the hard work of customs officers, without which we cannot imagine protecting the union's external borders. i am sure that we have already prepared a practical gift for the 40th anniversary of our customs union, which we will commemorate on 1 july 2008. i am pleased to have been able to contribute my voice to the modernisation of the customs code.
ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a vision of a modern, dynamic europe. i consider this debate to be extremely necessary and topical. globalisation forces us to ask ourselves questions and challenges, as the swedish prime minister, fredrik reinfeldt, put it. it must be our great political ambition to implement structural reforms, which i consider to be the most politically difficult part of the lisbon strategy. until we can put the economy on a path to healthy growth, we cannot even talk about a knowledge economy. i am convinced that the knowledge economy and investing in human resources is the right strategy for europe's future. the appeal was heard from several speakers: 'we want a social europe!' i don't know a politician, not even in our conservative family, who would be against the social security of citizens, who wouldn't want citizens to have good wages and a better standard of living, that citizens don't have a pension of only 150 euros, as it is in slovakia. in the last quarter of 2007, my country, slovakia, grew its economy by a record 14% year-on-year. could the current social-democratic government of prime minister robert fico have made social policy in slovakia if the previous government of mikuláš dzurinda had not found the political courage to adopt bold reforms in the tax, social, health and education systems?
mr president, distinguished members of parliament, distinguished guests. the report correctly highlights the risks of an unregulated global financial system. this is beyond the direct influence of european union policies and can be a source of widespread financial instability. it is therefore necessary to reassess the business models and effects of transnational financial groups on global financial markets and to seek to regulate them on a broad international basis. i agree that a healthy and stable macroeconomic environment requires greater budgetary consolidation and smart private and public investment policies. such a policy can establish a future-oriented infrastructure and open up prospective markets. i do not think that public ownership is one of the main elements leading to disruption in european energy markets. no one has ever shown that private monopolies behave more correctly than state-owned monopolies. it's all about setting the rules right. it is therefore necessary to improve the rules of competition in energy, but also in transport and information systems, to gradually open up the relevant markets and to extend and connect european infrastructure.
rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, requested for an opinion. − however, despite its certain imperfections, the european treaty is an important means of further and deeper integration of the member states, and of more efficient and flexible functioning of structures and institutions both within and outside the european union. it also opens the way for further enlargement of the union to include new member states, so that the aspirations of many people for a common europe can be fulfilled. the charter of human rights, which has become part of it, is certainly of great importance in its own right. nevertheless, its low level of explicitness may raise some questions in the assessment of natural human rights. the committee on industry, research and energy considers that the new treaty gives considerable scope for the implementation of common policies, while leaving the member states, under the principle of subsidiarity, sufficient powers to pursue their own competition policies and strategies, as is the case, for example, in the field of industry. strengthening the scientific and technological base through the european research area will allow for a freer transfer of scientific knowledge and technology, as well as for scientists and researchers to cooperate freely across borders. in the field of space research, we can note with satisfaction that the treaty establishes a space policy for europe and explicitly provides for appropriate cooperation with the european space agency. a major achievement of the treaty is the agreement on a common energy policy with a focus on improving the functioning of the internal energy market, ensuring security of supply, energy efficiency and savings, the development of renewable sources and better network connectivity. i welcome the fact that the treaty still leaves the decision on the energy mix to the individual member states. i am also pleased to note that the treaty also contains a protocol on euratom, which will continue to have its original legal effect, and which will certainly create the conditions for the systematic and safe development of nuclear energy.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the initiative of the european parliament to actively follow and take the initiative in the process of ratifying the treaty of lisbon. i am glad that i too had the opportunity to work in the european convention for 18 months on the drafting of the constitutional treaty. after its failure, the treaty of lisbon is a political compromise and a balanced and good document. the other important reforms include the extension of the codecision process, which for us in the european parliament means that the european parliament will become the strongest since its inception, and i welcome this fact as well as the modernisation and democratisation of politics in 21st century europe. but it also increases the flexibility of the european union, which today comprises 27 member states. this is also reflected in the increased involvement of national parliaments in the preparation of documents implemented in the european union. in this context, i regret that slovakia, which had no problems with ratifying the constitutional treaty, has today, thanks to political games, become visible with the problems of ratification. i hope that slovak politicians will also recognise the need for this document and that ratification will proceed without any problems. let me just add one more sentence. the debate in this parliament, mr president, shows the difference between the european council's and the european parliament's perceptions. he's talking about the fact that there's probably not good communication here, because in fact, the signature of the prime ministers who signed the lisbon treaty is in question, and that's a pretty serious fact.
ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote for the report by the rapporteurs corbett and mendez de vigo on the treaty of lisbon, because the european union needs a treaty whose task is to reform, make the european union more efficient and modern. allow me to congratulate the five member states that have already ratified the treaty of lisbon. i am convinced that the ratification of the lisbon treaty is not in danger in slovakia either. with the exception of one parliamentary party, it has the general support and will be voted for by a large majority of the members of the national parliament. the current slovak opposition, which has the greatest merit in integrating slovakia into the european family, will support the lisbon treaty at the moment when the press law in slovakia, which has been criticized by european institutions such as freedom house, the osce, the european federation of journalists, will be revised in accordance with their recommendations.
i thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work, which clearly highlights all the positive aspects as well as the weaknesses of the new treaty. nobody is perfect, but thanks for the fact that the contract achieves a high level of quality and reflects the current reality in the european union and the possibilities it offers at contractual level. as the administrative rapporteurs point out, this treaty strengthens democratic accountability and decision-making powers, giving citizens greater control over the union's action. in this context, however, i would like to call on the governments of the member states, as should be the rule in european and not just european legislation, to provide their citizens with an adequate summary of the lisbon treaty, so that it is understandable to everyone, so that everyone can decide in good conscience whether such legislation suits him or not. and i am sure that the well-informed citizens of the european union will unequivocally support the lisbon treaty. i would also like to stress that such an important document should not be subject to political manipulation, as is the case with the opposition in slovakia, which is blocking the adoption of such a progressive and democratic document.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the contribution of the european council to the spring session in relation to the lisbon strategy. i agree with the proposers that only a lisbon strategy based on human resources in a supportive, learning, knowledge, scientific, research, cultural, information and innovation area has a chance of success. to meet the lisbon objectives, we need three players: universities as knowledge creators, business firms that can exploit knowledge, and a public and local authority component that can create a sustainable infrastructure for science, research and development at national and regional level. an invention needs a financial investment, and that investment will bring knowledge. the notes injected into the innovations will multiply this injected financial contribution. only inventive and creative smes can survive in tough competition. i believe that europe can find its place in the american-japanese consciousness of the 21st century.
kosovo has declared independence. it's not a surprise, it's expected. the international community must take note. for peace and stability in the region, eu member states must act as one and give maximum support to developments in the country, in line with the ahtisaari plan. member states and politicians, including slovaks, who unjustifiably spread the illusion that this act will set a dangerous precedent for other countries are mistaken. kosovo is an exceptional case. consider the origins of the bloody events nine years ago when serbian military forces carried out a genocide of albanians. it is perfectly understandable that the albanian community does not want to live within the republic of serbia and forcible coercion would lead to a war conflict. the eu's very important task is to create a society of equal citizens so that minority communities have broad rights to preserve and develop their identity and the right to their own public administration, which for the serbian community means a large degree of autonomy.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i note with concern the decline in the birth rate which has been taking place for several years and which indicates that by 2050 there will be a change in the population structure in the european union. it will not only be the overall ageing of the european union, but also a shortage of people of working age. as a consequence, the union will face a loss of competitiveness in relation to regions with high demographic growth. demographic imbalances could then affect the financing of social security and pension schemes. however, i believe that this situation is not new and that the current adverse demographic changes raise important questions which require an analysis of their causes and consequences. one of the main causes of the demographic winter i see in the adverse conditions and influences that seek to weaken, for example, the traditional male-female family model, the role of motherhood in women's lives, as well as men as fathers of children, the economic and social benefits of large families. as a family man and a doctor, i welcome the parts of the resolution that speak of maternity protection, socioeconomic support for families and activities to enable women and men to better balance family and working life. i also agree with the objective and rational approach to immigration policy. i just want to point out that i see the rationality of immigration policy in filling those jobs that have been vacant for a long time in eu countries. europe's policy in this area must be carefully considered. europe should be able to apply the so-called blue card in such a way that it actively selects only skilled labour in the emigration process, and only in the professions that are lacking in the market. i also welcome the possibility of adoption for infertile couples and the creation of good conditions for foster families. i'm almost finished. but i don't agree with the promotion of assisted reproduction as a treatment option for infertility so much and in such activity ....
in europe we are faced with a very negative demographic trend which shows that the union will undergo major demographic changes over the next 50 years. the decline in birth rates, the ageing and extinction of the population are the most serious problems today. under certain circumstances, european civilization is in danger of being wiped out. the truth must be told about the causes of this situation. in the last 50 years or so, tens of millions of europeans have been unborn because of abortions. young people have not been raised to behave responsibly in the area of sex, and sexual freedom is a hallmark of today's society. the breakdown of families in the last 50 years, divorce, single-parent families, and more and more children born out of wedlock. huge devaluations of the value of the child, e.g. what tax deductions can a businessman apply annually on one or more cars and what tax deductions can a parent apply on children? a social policy that rewards those who have had few or no children and have devoted themselves mainly to a working career. social policy that pushes families with many children into poverty and dependence on state benefits. the state as the main, decisive instrument that assesses, measures and redistributes and implements intergenerational solidarity through tax and social laws. the enormous media and societal pressure on women that their work in the workplace is the only thing that has value and meaning. childbearing and child rearing are still seen as a necessary evil. motherhood has almost no value. it's not even worth the minimum wage. there are certainly other reasons, but these are the ones that have destroyed the demography of europe. only by eliminating them can europe be made a continent of future and hope again, because a continent without children is a continent without a future.
ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues. people in the european union are living longer and longer. that's a positive thing. on the other hand, the number of young people is steadily declining. in three or four years, the population of working age will begin to decline. if today there are three working people for every one pensioner, by 2050 there will be one and a half working people. where does the road to addressing the economic impacts of population ageing lead? first, more people employed. the traditional politics of men working and women caring for the family will no longer exist. most women want to be mothers as well as to have a career. public policy must support both of these aspirations. the scandinavian countries are a good example. their active labour market policy combined with better care for mothers with children results in the highest quality of life. secondly, we need to reform social protection systems in relation to care for the elderly and retirement age. if we don't do it on the basis of social justice and solidarity, the losers will be mostly the elderly. reforms in pension systems, health care systems and investments in good health are needed for long-term improvement. older people have a wealth of knowledge and experience, and they need to be motivated to stay in the workforce longer. ladies and gentlemen, the launch of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy is an opportunity to introduce reforms that will increase labour productivity, contribute to job creation and thus help to mitigate the economic impact of population ageing.
ladies and gentlemen, the thoughtful and responsible development of urban areas is proving to be of paramount importance, especially in the face of challenges such as congestion of urban transport networks, environmental damage and land reclamation. i therefore very much appreciate the adoption of the territorial agenda and the leipzig charter. cities have a special responsibility for climate protection, which should be a priority at all policy levels. cities could help to address poor traffic conditions and reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, for example, by linking different modes of transport and building cyclist and pedestrian infrastructure. i would also suggest that cities give priority to energy-efficient buildings and that instead of building new areas, they use existing buildings for new purposes. i would like to emphasise that not only metropolitan regions but also peripheral and rural areas are successful in cohesion policy. i therefore invite the commission to follow up these successful projects and, on that basis, to develop a development model for smaller and medium-sized cities outside the metropolis. europe is also characterised by geographical diversity in a relatively small area. it is therefore necessary to take account of the specificities of the territory and the resulting differences and to enable people in different regions to benefit from the specific possibilities and potential of the territory they inhabit. i also consider it very important to include in our policy objectives the need to address territorial issues also in relation to islands, mountainous, border and sparsely populated areas, in order to improve the quality of life of the people living there. in conclusion, i would like to stress the need for an integrated and well-coordinated strategy in urban development, to be supported by all levels of government and the private sector.
thank you, mr. chairman. we are discussing the fourth cohesion report and the reports by mrs kallenbach and mr guellec at a time when the first ideas for the 2014-2020 budgetary plan are beginning to emerge. i would like to connect and emphasize the connection between these topics. i am not afraid that the cohesion policy heading will disappear from the future plan, but on the other hand i would not like the weight of this heading to be reduced in any way in the next budget period. moreover, as the rapporteurs rightly point out, large regional disparities, including structural problems, persist and, as this situation has been exacerbated by enlargement, it is necessary to consider strengthening this chapter in the budget. as the reports rightly point out, the situation is so complex that we cannot resolve it from the commission's level. the governments of the member states have an important role to play here, but it is increasingly clear that without the involvement of regional and local administrations the problem cannot be solved. their role is not only to be able to decide on development issues within their territory in synergy with the government, but also to have responsibility for this development and, last but not least, to provide feedback on development and cohesion as they develop. who can provide more information about the real development of a region than the people who live in it? i therefore call on the commission to include not only macroeconomic indicators in its monitoring, but to be creative and to use such information as a basis as well... (the president cut the speaker off)
successful implementation of cohesion policy requires active local actors who can concentrate their efforts and make full use of european money. for this reason, member states should decentralise management, strengthen administrative capacity at regional level, reduce excessive bureaucracy associated with the management of cohesion policy. the division of settlements into cohesive and innovative clusters, which brings clear benefits and effects for larger settlements and their neighbours, may well create more integration zones, but there is no effective, simple and comprehensive support for smaller settlements. in slovakia, a number of municipalities with a population of less than 2000 and a disadvantageous geographical location will be excluded from several operational programmes and cohesion policy. i call on the member states to ensure a non-discriminatory system for all their regions, so that all can actively participate in the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. − as rapporteur for the epp-ed political group on the christel schaldemos report on the draft decision on the common framework for the marketing of products, i welcome the outcome of the compromise vote which has allowed the legislative process to be concluded at first reading. the compromise agreed includes the transfer of parts of the articles concerning the ce marking to the market surveillance regulation, i.e. to the brie report, in order to speed up their implementation in practice. we have taken this step on the basis of clear arguments that goods from third countries are increasingly appearing in the european rapex database of dangerous products, which unlawfully bear the ce mark, that is, the european logo indicating the conformity of the product with european legislation. confidence or distrust in the ce marking cannot be linked to the ce marking itself but must be linked to confidence in the whole system of accreditation, notification and market surveillance. i am of the opinion that it is not desirable to put additional marks on products, even if they are quality marks, because the new marks could be confusing for the final consumer and, moreover, new costs could be reflected in the price of the goods. i am therefore curious to see the results of the impact study on the use of national marks alongside the ce marking which the commission should produce at the request of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
in writing. − the eu must face serious demographic changes in order to maintain the demographic and territorial balance of the eu. on the one hand, we have to deal with the aging of the population. the situation is alarming. every year after 2010, the number of the working population will decrease by 1 million, threatening solidarity between generations. on the other hand, there are problems with the reduction of births, which have been going on for several years. the increasing fertility rate of married couples may cause postponement of childbirth. the protection of motherhood and the family must be at the heart of all eu policies. pension systems must not punish women for motherhood. in recent years, disparities between member states have continued to be reduced, but disparities within member states have widened considerably. it is the less-favoured regions that are less developed and most affected by demographic change, in particular population ageing and migration. because of a shortage of well-paying jobs, skilled labor is leaving for the big cities. the strong concentration of economic activities in capital cities upsets the demographic, economic, social and environmental balance and causes a decline in the population in rural areas, which often lack the basic infrastructure needed for development. i voted in favour of the report by mrs castex on the demographic future, which is one of the important reports. we must recognise that democratic development is an essential component of all policies in the medium and long term.
in writing. − cohesion policy helps to tackle problems such as demographic change, rural-urban migration, segregation, climate change and many others. these challenges can only be met if cohesion policy remains a community policy. that is why i strongly support this report. the benefits of this policy are already apparent in countries that have benefited from the cohesion fund in the past. greece, spain, portugal and ireland all recorded strong growth. similarly, new member states need to be helped. as anyone who has grown up and lived in a more remote region, i know that the differences between regions, or even within regions, are significant. sometimes even greater than the differences between countries. this is true of living standards, the number of jobs available, income, and educational opportunities. i therefore stress the urgent need to reduce the disparities between regions with access to land and those with structural disadvantages. i see the way forward in prioritizing policies that reduce the pressure on capital cities and encourage the emergence of secondary centres. the development of rural areas, in which small and medium-sized towns play an important role, should be encouraged. it is also necessary to direct funding to projects that seek to make each region attractive. i support this report because i know that cohesion policy is the right answer to many demographic changes.
it has been a long time since we, in this chamber, despite the ban on security services, together with bernd posselt, lit a candle in solidarity with the belarusian people in the presence of commissioner ferrero-waldner. what is belarus like today? the last european dictator, alexander lukashenko, enjoys popularity in belarus despite tight regulation of the economy and intimidation of political opponents. the government is stepping up repression and jailing opposition activists. the government controls the belarusian media, so people in the country often do not know that the lukashenko regime is unacceptable to the european union. the european parliament cannot be satisfied with just awarding the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to alexander milinkievich. this award commits the european parliament to closely monitoring the situation in belarus.
in slovakia, march 25 marks the 20th anniversary of the candlelight demonstration for religious and civil rights and freedoms. the communist regime cracked down on this peaceful gathering of believers. the civil rights and freedom of assembly guaranteed by the constitution, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the 1975 helsinki final act were grossly violated. the candlestick demonstration in bratislava was initiated by believers, but it expressed demands for full respect for civil rights for all citizens. it grew from the roots of religious and civil dissent, from the sacrifice of the executed, from the suffering of the unjustly imprisoned, and from the soil of the pontificate of john paul ii. the courage to resist the candlelight demonstration in bratislava in march 1988 can be seen as the beginning of the final fall of the communist totalitarian regime in czechoslovakia, which took place in november 1989.
slovakia, as well as poland, lithuania, estonia and some other eu member states, like the czech republic, have long been trying to get on the list of countries that will not need a visa to travel to the united states. any move towards visa-free travel has a significant cost for our citizens, as it means equal rights for all eu citizens. i hope that the commission and the slovenian presidency will realise that a legal penalty against the czech republic for signing a memorandum of understanding with the us would not be a good signal from brussels at a time when the ratification process of the lisbon treaty is under way. i am in favour of a compromise between a unified eu position and rules on the basis of which member states could negotiate with the us on a bilateral basis.
the main objective of the lisbon strategy is to promote competitiveness in europe, in line with other world economies: the united states, the emerging new centres in asia (china and india). the strategy also includes the creation of a european institute of technology, which is strongly supported by the epp-ed group. i am looking forward to the birth of this institution, which will need significant financial support to achieve its objectives, which are very important for maintaining the eu's industrial, competitive and innovative base, and i am calling for an increase in the funds that have been agreed. at the same time, however, i think it is important to stress the need to implement the institute's project and i believe it is particularly important to support the very innovations that are the engines of progress and competitiveness. i therefore consider it important to emphasise innovation in the name of the institute, originally planned as the european institute of innovation and technology. this initiative is intended to be an important part of the knowledge economy, supporting research and innovation in the eu. in conclusion, let me express my admiration, my admiration, for commissioner figeel's energy and determination in carrying out this project.
data for the quota year 2006 2007 show that at eu level 1.9 million tonnes of milk were not used up, with 18 of the 27 member states not meeting their national quotas. the european commission has announced that it expects to have a non-exhaustion of 3 million tonnes of milk for the 2007/08 quota year. on the other hand, the 2% increase is highly debatable. i agree that all options should be evaluated on the basis of their implementation, with emphasis on their economic, but also social, regional and budgetary implications. in my opinion, the new countries should receive more subsidies than the proposed 2% level, so as not to discriminate against them in the past, because we all know that there is higher demand and increasingly higher prices.
i have great respect for the work of mr goepel. the preparation of the report was also complicated by the lack of analyses to evaluate possible solutions, relevant case studies, and the necessary precise data in the background material. for example, the commission defends the reduction of direct payments for large agricultural holdings only by the general finding that large holdings do not need such aid. but the facts prove otherwise. in my country, the slovak republic, these are the most commonly run businesses and more than 75% of the machines are over 20 years old, so they are in desperate need of money. the example of east germany confirms that when large enterprises are well invested, they rank among the most efficient in the world, and conversely, in those post-socialist countries where they are administratively disadvantaged, the greatest destruction has occurred not only in the agricultural sectors but also in the countryside and entire regions. on the other hand, the commission is not responding adequately to the very dangerous increase in volatility in the global agri-food market. the risk of food safety being compromised in the european union in the event of a repeat of last year's situation is real here, i would point out. the elimination of natural instability of the agricultural market is, after all, the most important task of any agricultural policy and should be reflected in this report. we cannot therefore accept the situation as it is now, whereby we change the support for energy crops from year to year by chaotic measures, abolish the 'set aside', change the production quotas and so on. speaking of reviewing the joint farm ...
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, the security woman. my fellow officers. there's been a lot of talk about the status of women over the past week in relation to march 8th. in addition to the commonplace, they also talked about the problems that are visible behind the average, as a result of the structured approach. women do not live in the same circumstances, they have different talents, opportunities, problems. rural women are not all alike, they have common problems and some problems that only occur in certain strata or groups. the report by christa klaß differs from the general reports in that it deals specifically with the problems of rural women and clearly with the failings of policies. it is useless to set targets for women's employment if the necessary flexible back-up services, such as transport conditions, are not created. women in rural areas are generally in a more difficult situation, doing much more hidden unpaid work without insurance and protection, such as on family farms. in practice, this makes the legal position of these women uncertain, whether in pregnancy, illness, or in old-age care. these issues are still unresolved, while the migration from the countryside to urban environments offering better living conditions is almost unstoppable. i agree with the rapporteur that the situation of women in rural areas should be taken more into account in the allocation and use of the various european financial instruments. failure to do so has far-reaching consequences. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president, and congratulations to mrs klaß on an excellent report. i come from a new member state with a relatively strong rural population. it remains stable, having declined by only 14% over the last 45 years. rural regions are now more exposed to changes brought about by economic policies. it's a known process that businesses are leaving rural areas and going to cities. but the public policy should be such that it is not the women in the countryside who pay for this so-called modernisation. i would like to invite the committee of the regions to look into this issue and to launch a wide consultation in rural regions in order to better understand the realities of life, its advantages and disadvantages. i would also like to invite the commission and the council to focus their programmes, especially the micro-credit programmes, on women in rural areas.
in writing. the own-initiative report by rapporteur klaß seeks a new approach to tackling the considerable disparities between urban and rural areas. women play a key role in the socio-political, economic and environmental development of rural areas. the lives of women in rural areas present a number of opportunities but also great challenges. attracting rural areas will prevent the displacement of young and educated people in particular. i therefore call for the promotion of sustainable, integrated growth and the creation of new employment opportunities, especially for women, as well as the provision of high-quality health, social and universal services in every corner of the european union. only educated women will contribute to the revitalization of local communities, will be able to start new businesses that can contribute to the promotion of diversification of the rural economy, to the raising of the standard of living in rural areas. we must very quickly remove all barriers to access to information and communication technologies, and ensure broadband internet access for women in rural areas. lifelong learning with the teaching of world languages and the possibility of rapid retraining must be made available to all women who express an interest. in addition, the successful leader programme, which has already helped many women to establish themselves in rural areas in the fields of tourism, crafts and regional products, should be continued. i am convinced that the identification of best practices and new tools for the exchange of experience will make a significant contribution to improving the efficiency of life in rural areas as well.
the european union is energy dependent on non-eu countries and not only that, europe is approaching an energy crisis. it is therefore imperative that we intervene and promote the use of renewable energy sources. i consider the use of biogas to be an economically and ecologically viable option. biogas contributes to sustainable economic and agricultural development, rural development and environmental protection, while at the same time, when produced from manure, sludge, municipal and animal organic waste, it opens up new income prospects for farmers. however, particular attention should also be paid to safety measures, as some active ingredients and bacteria in agricultural and municipal waste could pose a risk to public health and the environment if they were to spread. i would also like to express my strong protest against the use of maize, grain and other primary food crops for energy production. the burning of these products leads not only to the overpricing of feed but also of foodstuffs.
the report on statistics on plant protection products is very much in line with the report for which i was also rapporteur, namely the thematic strategy on sustainable development of pesticides. in order to ensure that the report is in line with that strategy, it is necessary that the elements that we have already agreed in the strategy, and have agreed on, are also reflected in the draft of this regulation. this concerns in particular the name of the regulation, where it is necessary to respect that the term 'plant protection product' will be replaced by the term 'pesticide'. the inclusion of biocides in the title of this regulation as an element that we have already agreed to in both the thematic strategy and the pesticides directive must also be respected. biocidal products must be included in the scope before the first report is submitted to the commission. all the relevant properties of biocides are known to us and there is therefore no reason not to include them or to wait for further information to be obtained and thus unnecessarily delay the deadline for pesticides, which includes both plant protection products and biocides. i am therefore strongly against supporting amendment no 33 and i will support amendment no 2 as the european parliament has already agreed on this issue and only this amendment is in line with the thematic strategy and the pesticides directive which was already approved by the european parliament in october 2007.
mr president, allow me to begin by wishing our jubilee man many sensible decisions for the benefit of the european citizens on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the european parliament. as the debate showed, i too believe that we can strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy and create new jobs by improving the business environment. the adoption of effective legislation in this area must also be driven by the representatives of smes and draw on their practical experience. i therefore welcome the adoption of the package on product marketing, which the european parliament was able to adopt together with the slovenian presidency with the effective assistance of the commission, and in particular the personal involvement of commissioner verheugen. mr president of the commission, slovakia is preparing to introduce the euro, which will increase the competitiveness of the slovak economy and will be the real culmination of slovakia's integration among the advanced countries. i believe that the decision of the commission and the slovenian presidency will be in favour of slovakia, based on an assessment of the results of the excellent condition of the slovak economy, so that we can introduce the euro on the scheduled date of 1 january 2009.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on friday, february 29th, the archbishop of mosul, bishop rahho, was kidnapped. his three companions were brutally murdered. this is a serious incident. the fourth geneva convention explicitly protects civilian, health, religious and humanitarian personnel. simple activists for peace through nonviolence are numerous in iraq, the palestinian territories and israel. they are christians, muslims, jews or secularists. in the case of the kidnapping of the leader of the religious minority, our parliament has two options for acting immediately. tomorrow, when we vote on the report by our colleague ana gomes, we can vote on an oral amendment condemning the kidnapping of bishop rahho to influence the war. or on thursday we will also have the opportunity to add a very short text to the urgent agenda to take a position as a european institution.
currently, there are more than 250,000 sudanese refugees in chad, living in 12 refugee camps in the east of the country. at the same time, it's less talked about there are also 57,000 central african republic refugees in chad, currently in four camps in the south of the country. it should be remembered that more than 56% of refugees are women. more than 60 percent of refugees are under the age of 18, and so i want to focus on education and health care, in addition to basic human survival needs. in addition, there is a huge group of 180 thousand people in chad who are internal migrants because of the internal security situation. most of them are located in the east of the country, where they lack basic survival conditions, including food, basic necessities, clothing, drinking water, medicines and vaccines. i would like to call on the commission to find effective mechanisms and to equip this mission of ours, which is being sent there, with much better powers and better technical security, including medical security.
the european perspective for the balkan states is of particular weight and importance for stability in the balkans, as well as in the european and global space. the declaration of independence of kosovo sowed hatred in the fragile relations between serbs and kosovo albanians. given that slovenia is also part of the balkans, what does the presidency see as a sustainable solution to guarantee peace and stability in the region? will it be possible without the consent of serbia?
the 'forum for helping the elderly', the 'parliament of the elderly' or the 'forum of the elderly' magazine published in slovakia with the support of the commission are the activities i have had the opportunity to become familiar with in meetings with the elderly, as they are the traditional starting point of my calendar year. these activities convinced me that pensioners want to be active and are very learning. for example, the mobile phone has become a valuable companion rather than a stranger. unfortunately, there are few resources devoted to computer literacy among the elderly, and i therefore welcome the report by mrs gill, which brings an important message from the european parliament to improve the quality of life of the elderly or disabled population. the use of new information and communication technologies can be an effective tool if this group of european citizens, who are a source of wisdom, experience, traditions and skills, are not excluded from society. however, it is important to provide all pensioners in the european union with equal access to information and communication technologies.
for the ppe-de group. the initiative report on women in prison is very symbolic. the very pragmatic position of the committee on women's rights and gender equality is confirmed on the one hand, and on the other by the admirable commitment of our colleague, mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou. i must emphasise that marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou is very active in my committee and i congratulate her on her always responsible approach to her work. in preparing this report, we personally visited the women's prison in bruges. and this visit also allows us to say that this report is not theoretical at all. i'm glad the report covers the issue of women in prison in all its complexity. i personally want to emphasize the importance of protecting children from psychological harm during the period when their parents are in prison. and i'm saying this from personal experience. during the communist period, when i was five years old, our father was arrested for political reasons and sentenced to long prison terms. at school, teachers often asked me where he was and why he never came to the parents' meetings, even though everyone knew he was in prison. it was hurtful. children should be spared the stigma that comes with being incarcerated by their parents and being treated insensitively by others. maintaining regular personal relationships with incarcerated mothers is essential for their future lives and their future interpersonal relationships. in conclusion, i would like to draw particular attention to paragraph 22 of the report under discussion and to underline the importance which mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou attaches to maintaining family relations.
the report by the rapporteur, ms panayotopoulos-cassiotou, comes at a time when many member states are preparing to change their prison infrastructures to include separate women's prisons. the geographical location is an important factor that may make it easier for women prisoners to maintain family and friendship ties and to participate in religious ceremonies, for example. the impact of the isolation and depression of imprisoned women, especially mothers and mothers-to-be, can manifest itself in dire consequences for the mother herself and especially for her child and its development, therefore participation in religious rites can contribute to a positive turnaround in the lives of prisoners. human dignity and respect for fundamental rights are values that must be consistently applied in the prison policy of the member states. maintaining order in prison facilities requires skilled staff who can eliminate violence and abuse, predominantly against women, from the very beginning. it should be borne in mind that staff should also be able to provide psychological support, as many women are often linked to a traumatic past. i congratulate the rapporteur on her analysis of the current situation, which points to some important findings. it also presents a set of proposals and recommendations to improve conditions for prisoners, especially mothers who are caring for children on their own, but also young offenders. i appreciate the special attention the rapporteur has paid to pregnant women. women prisoners have often been victims of violence in the past, so this issue requires a very sensitive approach, with a dose of courage, to bring new innovative measures into prison policy. we must give women every opportunity to reintegrate into society without any problems after serving their sentences.
for the ppe-de group. the report on gender equality and women's empowerment was certainly not easy to produce, as its scale testifies. although i do not agree with everything that our colleague mrs uca has put forward in her report, i would like to congratulate her on the consistency and precision with which she has approached this subject. in addressing such a topic, we should start from the defence of the dignity of women and their role in promoting the common good in society. many women in developing countries, but not only there, suffer discrimination and violence, often working in degrading conditions for low wages, with inadequate health care, working too long hours, and facing humiliation and physical abuse. this is the cause of the underdevelopment. all these factors also affect the quality of their family life. the concrete steps we can take to remedy this situation are to strengthen development and equality to strengthen peace in the 21st century. we must condemn, repeatedly, uncompromisingly and at every opportunity, the sexual violence that often affects women and girls. we must encourage third world countries to pass laws that will effectively protect women. in the name of respect for the human person, we must also condemn the widespread quasi-culture that promotes the systematic exploitation of sexuality and destroys the dignity of even very young girls by forcing them to offer their bodies for the billions of dollars of profits in this industry. unfortunately, the clients come mostly from the civilized part of the world, not excluding the european union. women in conflict zones are victims of systematic rape for political purposes. i appreciate women's movements that help to empower women. in helping women in developing countries, we must not forget that in addition to financial aid from development funds, there is an effectively developed network of religious and charitable organizations. this initiative has been supported for many years by local churches through parallel schemes and informal small loans to the poor. it is very encouraging to see the patient, honest, and hard work of poor women rewarded in this way. this should also be supported by reform of the structures that help to spread the success of new initiatives. women must be guaranteed equal opportunities, fair pay for work, fairness in the work process, equal access to education at all levels, access to health care and equal family rights. policies for women are bold, but progress for women, even in developing countries, is progress for all of us.
as 70% of the 1.3 billion people living in absolute poverty are women, development aid must be directed primarily at women. i agree with all the points in the uc report that education is the key to women's empowerment. i agree to provide financial and technical support to women's organizations that work in the field of education and subsequently teach women how to be successful. i support micro-credit as a tool to achieve the millennium development goals. however, i do not agree with the rapporteur's position in the draft report on reproductive health. if we're going to give a woman the right to decide about her body, why not give her unborn child the same chance to decide about life or death? i agree with the amendments tabled by my colleagues from the epp-ed and uen groups in this area and i am grateful to my colleagues for the courage they have shown in putting them forward. if these amendments are not adopted, i will not support the report.
madam president, i would simply like to propose an oral amendment which reads as follows: via the fourth geneva convention of 12 august 1989 on the protection of civilians in time of war and its annex i and ii protocols, is particularly concerned about the violence suffered by humanitarian, health and religious personnel in the exercise of their duties. it's the text. i have consulted our colleagues in the various groups extensively and they have assured me that they will not obstruct my proposal.
in writing. in the context of the 4th geneva convention for the protection of civilian persons in time of war, it is stated that humanitarian, religious and health personnel will be respected and protected. it has become necessary to defend the case of archbishop rahho, the chaldean catholic archbishop born and living in mosul, who was kidnapped on friday, february 29, 2008. during the violence, three of his companions were killed. in an oral amendment to the gomes report, it was not possible to name mr rahho personally. i therefore ask the president to send two letters of support and encouragement on behalf of parliament: - one to the iraqi shia prime minister nouri al-maliki, who condemned the attacks and offered the iraqi government "protection and justice" for christians, and assured that the perpetrators of these crimes would be hunted down and punished. - the other to iraqi vice-president tareq al-hashemi, a sunni, who also strongly condemned the terrorist attacks on christian communities, expressing on this occasion his 'closeness to the christian brothers'. it is essential to encourage the national authorities to use all means to secure the immediate and unconditional release of archbishop paulos faraj rahho.
in writing. gender equality is a priority in developing countries. i am very grateful for the extremely precise and thorough work carried out by mrs uca on this important subject. i voted against the report, however, because in the final version some paragraphs adopting vague terms on sexual and reproductive health remain ambiguous as to their content. contradictory accounts persist, some of which involve the endangerment of unborn children. in a future report, women's health should not be limited to reproductive health, as all women have the right to an environment that allows them to remain healthy. it requires special vigilance for a safe supply of drinking water, protein, basic medicines, alongside traditional medicines. following mrs mongella's visit on 6 march 2008, for women's day, i would also say that we have much to learn from african wisdom on gender equality: it is lived and passed on through oral traditions, between women and between men, rich in good psychological and mental health. we can all learn from him.
i agree with the previous speakers that good neighbourly relations between the european union and russia are of key importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe as a whole. on the one hand, the european union must seek to intensify cooperation with russia, particularly on political, security, economic and, above all, energy cooperation. on the other hand, we cannot remain silent on the violation of democracy and political freedoms in russia. we must express our dissatisfaction when we are notified of violations of democracy, as was the case with the disqualification of presidential candidate mikhail kasyanov. i trust that russia's newly elected president dmitry medvedev will respect the rule of law and democracy and create the conditions for a swift start to negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and russia.
as a member of the barcelona process of the euromed political section, i am also following the lebanese issue and i am very sorry to have to say that although lebanon has a majority in parliament, a legitimate majority in parliament, that majority is intimidated, the parliament does not sit at all. there has been no elected president in the country since the assassination of the well-known and respected rafik hariri, and the whole country is politically incapable of coming out of this complicated situation. i recently met with members of the lebanese parliament, both in athens at the last euromed meeting and here in brussels, who told us about their terrible conditions. in lebanon, there is a climate that is virtually controlled by syria, politically and powerfully, and particularly in southern lebanon, where hezbollah is actually threatening its neighbors on a daily basis, especially by firing rockets into northern israel. this is a situation that iran is supporting, and i'm afraid that this axis is not willing to engage in democratic change. i would like to call on you, my colleagues, and on all of us, to take measures in the council and in this parliament to help lebanon immediately.
without the accession of the countries of south-east europe to the union, we cannot speak of a success of european integration. the former yugoslavia was a bastion of freedom during the cold war, and many emigrants from the former totalitarian czechoslovakia fled westward through the country, which was a chilling example for the former soviet union and its satellites. following my question to the council on the border disputes between slovenia and croatia, the council informed me that it had approved the new accession partnership with croatia and its implementation is a key precondition for progress in the negotiation process. i am pleased with the report by mr hannes swoboda, who fills me with optimism. like the rapporteur, i am convinced that croatia, on the basis of the progress achieved in the integration process, will fulfil all the conditions for accession to the european union and will become a significant stimulus for all the other countries of the western balkans.
i'll be very brief. the report by my colleague mr swoboda is very clear on all the issues that needed to be addressed, and i think that the report also shows very clearly the political experience and professionalism of mr swoboda. i would like to say that, as the vice-president of the regional parliament, i also want to emphasise the good readiness of the individual croatian regions to become a good part of the european union; and thus, not only at the central level of the croatian government, but also at the level of the croatian regions, this issue is very well discussed with the current member states and i think that in the future this creates a good space for the active involvement of croatian regions in the policies of the european union.
i should like to begin by saying that i am not happy that in today's europe two neighbouring countries are settling their dispute here in the european parliament. what is the case of the hungarian village of mlynky? according to the latest statistics, 54% of slovaks live in the municipality, from which the mayor took away two rooms where 5 slovak associations carried out their activities. i would like to point out that this act is just the tip of the iceberg in the treatment of the slovak minority. in the slovak school in the hungarian village, slovak is taught as a foreign language for 3 hours a week and the priest serves mass in hungarian. the bilingual community newspaper ceased to be published. i want to thank president szijjártó of hungary for visiting the village at the beginning and hearing both sides. i would also like to thank the hungarian ombudsman for handling the case in favour of the slovak minority. but it seems that the local government is sticking to its guns. just 30 km from this village is the bridge of friendship, which is being built with the money of the european union, austria, and i want the friendship symbolized by this bridge to reign here.
the municipality of the hungarian village of mlynky with 55% share of the population of slovak nationality has agreed to the mayor's proposal to move 2 slovak minority organizations from the traditional slovak house. the organizations sent a protest letter to the municipality's leadership, in which they point out the violation of the previous status and the damage to the national interests of the slovak minority in mlynky. the decision to evict is not an accidental act, however. it follows previous decisions concerning the withdrawal of the municipality's management from the publication of a bilingual magazine, the change of television broadcasting in favor of minority broadcasting and the reduction of the allowance for slovak teachers. it is a generally negative trend and i must protest against such practices. the danger of such a procedure and decision lies in particular in the fact that it substantially and perhaps deliberately undermines the position of a minority in a given environment and reduces the existing standard of minority rights. the ombudsman for minorities in the republic of hungary, mr kállai, also described these decisions as incomprehensible. the acts of the municipal government in mlynk, which repeatedly attacks the slovak minority, are a very bad signal, especially at a time when high-ranking representatives of the slovak and hungarian governments are preparing a meeting of the prime ministers of both governments, from which it is clearly expected to improve relations between our countries.
the european parliament raised concerns about the construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant in the eastern slovak city of trebišov. i would like to point out that the ministry of economy of the slovak republic has issued a negative opinion on the matter, which does not relate to the construction of the power plant within the framework of the energy security strategy of the slovak republic until 2030. i want to support the efforts of the citizens of trebišov who are also bravely opposing the construction of the said power plant. i would also like to stress that the trebišov citizens' initiative was supported by the former prime minister of the slovak republic, mikuláš dzurinda, and other politicians who are concerned about the negative impact of the power plant on the environment, the quality of life in trebišov, and also the negative impact on the unique tokaj region, which is a wine-growing area bordering ukraine and hungary.
the recent activities of the hungarian guard against roma citizens, the open advocacy of extremism and revisionism, as well as the search for an external enemy in neighbouring states and in the representatives of other nations, reinforced by the continuation of its activities and the further swearing in less than two weeks ago of the new members of this organisation, supported by like-minded political parties and groups not only in hungary but also beyond its borders, represent a serious threat to the fundamental principles on which modern europe is built. it is a growing threat and at the same time a challenge that is of vital concern not only to all democratically minded citizens of hungary, to citizens of neighbouring countries, but it is a problem that affects the whole of europe. the manifestations of aggressive nationalism, racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism or neo-fascism have no place and cannot have a place in democratic europe. these phenomena cannot be relativized, marginalized, nor can they be excused. i would therefore ask and appeal to the european institutions to take up these problems seriously.
the most important topic of the 10th session of the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee, held in the european parliament in february, was visa facilitation. after the expansion of the schengen area at the end of last year, the conditions for ukrainian citizens to obtain a visa to the eu have been tightened, fees have been increased, waiting period has been extended. the eu's external borders must not be the site of a new berlin wall at a time when ukraine is deciding its future. i therefore welcome the agreement between slovakia and ukraine on a small border crossing, which will facilitate frequent crossings of the slovak-ukrainian state border, in particular for social, cultural, economic or family reasons. a swift resolution of visa issues can convince ukrainian citizens of the benefits of eu membership.
mr president, commissioner, on 5 april, the orthodox christian priest youssef adel was assassinated by unknown assailants in the centre of baghdad. the chaldean archbishop of mosul, monsignor rahho, was kidnapped in late february. our parliament did not react and his body was found in mid-march. if the international community turns a blind eye, there will never be peace in this region. the financial means made available by the european union will remain useless if the european union does not protect the local population. i ask the commission to consider the possibility of managing european funds for iraq as long as the christians of iraq remain the targets of violence, kidnappings, murders and bombings. i ask our president to declare with the council, on our behalf, that he strongly condemns the persecution of civilian, humanitarian, health and religious personnel in iraq.
commissioner, allow me to congratulate you on your election. i am very pleased that the cancer issue is now being addressed not only in professional circles but also in political circles, which are very important in this case. experts point to alarming statistics, trends in incidence are very unfavorable. i was in charge of a meeting of the patient organisations yesterday morning and i can say that they are demanding adequate treatment, which is very difficult, especially in the case of rare diseases. there is still a large gap between the old 15 and the new 12 in the incidence of this disease, in late detection, and in access to treatment at all stages of the disease. poor prevention, late diagnosis or treatment worsens the patient's condition and his chance of recovery. commissioner, i ask you to ensure that the fight against cancer is not just a priority for the six-month presidency, for medical professionals such as esmo, for patient organisations, but that we in the european parliament will also support you in finding solutions.
i also welcome the fact that we have today approved ms vassiliou as the new commissioner for health. i have great hopes for this new cooperation and i personally have been convinced by its performance in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of its qualities and its willingness to tackle certain problems, such as those i raised on the issue of smoking. now i would like to turn to a similar subject in this context, when we know that one in three europeans will suffer from some form of cancer, and the most common of these is lung cancer, colorectal cancer, as some have said, breast cancer. lung cancer is known to be up to five times more common than all cancers combined. it is undeniable that not only smoking but also passive smoking causes cancer, and it is also true that up to 95 percent of those who develop lung cancer are smokers or passive smokers. it is not enough to put labels on cigarette packs, it is time to introduce good laws to protect non-smokers, even in those old and new member states of the european union where, for reasons that are not clear, they are still hesitant. countries with good and sufficiently restrictive laws have dramatically improved health and saved billions that we would otherwise spend on treating cancer patients. dear friends, recently there have been articles in the scientific literature that speak of a direct relationship between the use of hormonal contraception and breast cancer. i would also like to call on the commission and our programmes to provide funding for this research, so that we can reduce these potential directions and improve women's health.
in writing. to speak of the incidence of cancer in the european union as an epidemic is alarming. yet, it is, for it claims more than a million lives a year. however, outbreaks occur in areas where people have poor living conditions, do not follow hygienic and epidemiological principles, or do not have access to effective health care. i do not know which of these conditions the eu meets. at the same time as we are talking about the cancer epidemic in the union, we are also talking about economic growth, competitiveness, high investment in prevention, new effective treatments and the pharmaceutical industry. in my country, the slovak republic, there has been a national cancer programme for more than 30 years to prevent cancer. yet, the incidence of cancer is still higher. is it the doctors' fault or the patients'? how are eu funds used for cancer prevention? the committee on women's rights and gender equality produced an owninitiative report on breast cancer in 2003. he gave precise reasons and possible solutions. yet, little of it has been realized. sometimes i feel that the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing, that in our society, in the eu, perhaps for the sake of image and for fear of telling the truth, we deliberately keep silent about the true causes of these diseases. the fight against cancer cannot be the priority of a single eu presidency, but should have been its systematic policy for many years.
i consider it very important that the mid-term evaluation of the 6th community environment action programme has revealed an important fact that the implementation of the action programme is significantly behind schedule. in view of this situation, it is therefore very unlikely that this will be achieved by 2012 and that the priority objectives will be met. i agree with the need to incorporate quantitative and qualitative objectives in the text of the programme in question in a clearer and more specific way. at the same time, i agree that the presentation of thematic strategies has not produced effective results. i therefore stress the need to continue efforts to close the gaps in environmental legislation through new legislative proposals. it is also very important to ensure the effective enforcement of environmental legislation. climate change, biodiversity, health and resource use will remain our most pressing challenges in the future.
let me first thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this report. i think it is thanks to mr rübig that parliament has managed to find an acceptable compromise with the commission and the council, which should lead to the adoption of this proposal at first reading. i am convinced that the eureka initiative to create a programme for small and medium-sized enterprises involved in scientific and research activities is very welcome to the business community. the fact that so many countries are involved in this initiative only confirms the lack of interest in addressing the problems of these smes. despite the efforts of the european parliament, the seventh framework programme has not fully solved the problem of access by these small companies to the financial resources intended to support their r & d and innovation activities. it is therefore encouraging that this bottom-up initiative has found acceptance in all the relevant european institutions. despite the progress that has undoubtedly been made, i must say that some questions remain unanswered. this concerns in particular the eligibility criteria for admission to the research-related turnover programme and also the time equivalent. i personally think that we should be more generous in setting these criteria, bearing in mind the possibility of access to the eurostars programme for smaller companies, which despite their size have a great potential for innovation and development. in conclusion, i would like to express my pleasure that slovakia, my country of origin, has also joined this cooperation, which can improve the situation in the rather lagging development of innovative smes.
the eurostars r&d programme is intended for small and medium-sized enterprises carrying out research and development in the implementation of market-oriented research in transnational projects carried out for various associations of small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to stress in particular the importance of the momentum of knowledge transfer and the need for cooperation within this programme between enterprises and other institutions on the basis of industrial and economic partnership. the great positive aspect of the programme is that it is bottom-up and directly tailored to the needs of the research-making companies involved. i consider it crucial that the aim of this research activity is to be market-oriented and to focus on short and medium-term results. i would also like to draw attention to a new element of this programme, which is the introduction of a risk-sharing financing instrument for riskier r & d projects.
in writing. the ep is also calling for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and to support the eu's efforts to combat terrorism. smes can often participate effectively in development and research, but they have to endure conditions that are less favourable than those of large multinational corporations. from now on, associations of small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of research and development can benefit from european financial support and work in a european network with other small and medium-sized enterprises. in this way, slovak smes can bring their knowledge and capacity to the european research and development sector. in slovakia, many smes are located in rural areas with less developed infrastructure, which also hinders their own development. many women work in small and medium-sized enterprises for development and research, either directly or indirectly. european funds can be useful to give a certain impetus to the start-up of smes and thus put all their professional capacities at the service of the common good. the eurostars programme is aimed at developing and researching new products and services at european union level. the role of smes in eurostars projects is particularly significant. it is a pity that the slovak republic, as an eu member state, does not participate in this programme. slovak smes are thus unable to access significant financial assistance for the efficient development of new products, processes and services.
it is only possible to agree with the rapporteur and the committee on budgets that the european parliament's 2009 budget should be drawn up taking account, in the first place, of the extended responsibilities of parliament following the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. this is particularly the case with parliament's new role as a legislator on an equal footing with the european council. while the transition from the consultation procedure to the codecision procedure will not necessarily mean a doubling of the workload of parliamentary committees, it must be borne in mind that the strengthening of the codecision powers will be unprecedented and that parliament will also assume responsibility for the publication of legislative acts. it is therefore essential that parliament's political priorities are adequately funded. on the other hand, it is undoubtedly necessary to look for savings wherever possible, but on the condition that the budget is sustainable.
the draft resolution prepared by our interim committee on climate change on the basis of the oral question is consistent, but in my view it pays little attention to water, which can mitigate the micro and macro-climatic problems caused by draining the land and thus contribute to climate healing. our proposals are still oriented towards the philosophy of the old paradigm that is how to manage the last remaining water more efficiently and better. the new water paradigm proposes and advocates restoring water in the land structures and saturating the water cycle so that there is enough water for everyone, evenly and without collapses. its ambition is to change the current practice of draining large areas of land, which is caused by deforestation, agricultural activities or urban rainwater drainage. draining the land means reducing evaporation, converting sunlight into detectable heat and changing the enormous flows of energy in it. even a slight drop of 1 mm in the evaporation over the area of the slovak republic means that in a single sunny day, a release of detectable heat comparable to the annual output of all power plants in slovakia is achieved. ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr sacconini and mr dimas for their efforts and i hope i have succeeded in drawing your attention to these new ideas.
i voted in favour of the rapporteur's report, mr paul rübig, because i consider eurostars to be an important initiative of the european commission to promote research and development by smes. although smes account for almost 70% of gdp, their research and development potential has not yet been fully exploited. i would like to highlight the efforts of the rapporteur, mr rübig, to enable as many smes as possible to participate in this programme. the original proposal would have excluded many smes from the process, as the minimum level of contribution to the project costs by smes was set at 50%. the agreement between the european parliament and the council will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to come together and jointly develop a research and development project. i am pleased to note that slovakia is among the 29 participating countries that have already expressed support for this programme. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. the european research and innovation database, in which the commission will publish the results of projects implemented under this programme, will be a good guide for them.
i voted for the report on a european strategy for culture in a globalised world because i consider culture to be the soul of europe, an important element in the enrichment of our peoples. what continent has as many musical geniuses as europe, as many outstanding painters, sculptors, architects, and other world-renowned artists? never before has culture been so visible in the union. the outcome of the cultural maturity of the european regions is reflected, for example, in the european capital of culture project for the years 2007-2019. i am delighted to see the tie for the 2013 european capital of culture between the four slovak candidates, the slovak cities of košice, martin, nitra and prešov. the committee that will decide the winner in september this year will have a very hard time. beautiful, meaningful projects filled with cultural gems offer amazing experiences to all who visit these cities.
in writing. − report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on the animal health requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pet animals, as regards the extension of the transitional period. i am pleased that regulation no 998/2003 harmonises the rules for the non-commercial movement of pet animals between member states or after re-entry into the community from third countries. it is very positive that, amongst other things, a passport has been introduced for companion animals, namely cats, dogs and ferrets, in which proof must be provided that the animal has been vaccinated against rabies. i supported this report because the period originally proposed was not, in my view, long enough. this is also because no concrete proposal has been made so far on the matter and parliament will be dissolved in 2009 due to elections. at the same time, i consider it important that malta should be included in the list of countries that already apply specific requirements for ticks, as malta already applies those requirements. this proposal will help pet owners to travel with their pets more comfortably.
in writing. − by voting on the paul rübig report, the ep is sending a strong signal to smes in the member states. smes can often participate effectively in development and research, but they have to endure conditions that are less favourable than those of large multinational corporations. from now on, associations of small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of research and development can benefit from european financial support and work in a european network with other small and medium-sized enterprises. in this way, slovak smes can bring their knowledge and capacity to the european research and development sector. in slovakia, many smes are located in rural areas with less developed infrastructure, which also hinders their own development. many women work in smes for development and research, either directly or indirectly. european funds can be useful to give a certain impetus to the start-up of smes, and thus put all their professional capacities at the service of the common good. the eurostars programme is aimed at developing and researching new products and services at european union level. the role of smes in eurostars projects is particularly significant. it is indeed a pity that the slovak republic, as an eu member state, does not participate in this programme. slovak smes are thus unable to access significant financial assistance for the efficient development of new products, processes and services.
in writing. - dear colleagues, no one can say that the fight against cancer is not his or her concern. i am not an expert on oncology, but i have witnessed the cruelty of this disease, which took both my parents and my younger brother. i have known the hard fortunes of people and their families, which can't leave dry any eye, cold any heart. i am grateful to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for asking the commission a question which has triggered this important debate. i thank all the signatories of the resolution, including my slovak colleague irena belohorská, for their efforts, without which we would not have found answers to the serious questions surrounding this insidious disease. i believe that every single step, every single investment that helps to diagnose cancer early and to promote new treatments will be a great hope for cancer patients.
last week, the european foundation for democracy opened in brussels. i welcomed the news that a pan-european initiative had been set up, with the main agenda of promoting the spread of freedom and democracy beyond the borders of the european union and supporting the opposition in non-free countries. many of us have lived part of our lives under totalitarian regimes. today, after gaining freedom, i feel it is necessary to help the brave men and women who are striving for freedom and democracy in their countries. i have personal experience in providing financial support to cuban dissident families. i also believe that we need to find ways of using the budget of the european union to support the activities of the european foundation for democracy. we can thus join the ranks of václav havel, richard von weizsäcker, jacques delors and other political figures who have accepted the invitation to join the foundation's patronage in the fight for freedom.
the whitewashed front pages of slovak newspapers in protest against the passing of the press law, which from june this year introduces undemocratic rules for the press in slovakia, reminded me of belarus, where the ruling power does not respect the opposition, where there is no freedom of speech or freedom of the press. i am convinced that a member state which celebrates the 4th anniversary of its membership of the european union on 1 may 2008 should not adopt laws which are contrary to the fundamental democratic principles of the european union. mr president, i very much appreciate your words and your clear position in defence of press freedom in slovakia. i also thank mr joseph daul and mr michael gahler for their support. i hope that the representatives of the political group of the european socialists will not remain passive on this matter either. i also call on all democratically minded european politicians not to allow the sakharov prize for press freedom to go to slovakia.
let me remind you that yesterday in rome, at the age of 72, cardinal alfonso lópez trujillo, president of the pontifical council for the family, died. he was a lifelong advocate of traditional family values and against abortion. as head of the influential latin american bishops' conference, he was considered a possible candidate for the papacy in 2005 after the death of john paul ii. in 2006, he was critical of scientists engaged in embryonic stem cell research. he considered the destruction of the embryo to be tantamount to an abortion. cardinal trujillo has always responded clearly and up-to-date to the events of today's world. in several meetings, i became convinced of the need for his views for us christian politicians. we're going to miss his voice. in his memory.
this day is a significant day, a moral commendation to all victims of totalitarian regimes. my father, stefan kanyai, spent nine and a half years in a russian gulag. in his book, he describes the crushing facts associated with the cruelty of stalinism, which must be a reminder to us! thank you for his sake. i thank you on behalf of bishop jan vojtašák, bishop viktor trstenko, bishop stefan putanko, bishop stefan janik and thousands of other brave sons of the slovak nation who were victims of communism. in one of his books, slovak priest františek dlugoš writes: "to study the events that took place during forty years of communist regime, to know human destinies, means to uncover the soul of a nation". after today's debate, i deliver the 'soul of europe'. i welcome this discussion, for examining this special period and event can bring us much benefit for today and for the future.
mr. chairman, it is more than symbolic that you are leading the debate today. thank you for that. in my speeches, i draw attention to the call of the leaders of civil society organisations of ukraine and the eu to the member states and institutions of the european union, the government and the verkhovna rada of ukraine to draw the attention of the european public to the problems in the field of visas between ukraine and the european union. ukraine is one of the european union's strategic partners, and i therefore welcome today's debate and the information provided by the commissioner. i recognize that this is a very difficult process, but it is important to find a solution. the issue of visas for belarusian citizens was also one of the topics during the european parliament's belarus week, when the sakharov prize laureate alexander milinkievich met with the parliament. our duty is to help people who are not to blame for being victims of the lukashenko regime. ladies and gentlemen, we must adopt a rapid solution to simplify the visa regime, which will be a positive and constructive signal to the pro-european and pro-democratic forces in ukraine and belarus.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. − mr president, organ donation and transplantation is a sensitive and important issue, where good legislation, together with good practice, might save thousands of human lives on a yearly basis. issues on the fragile line between life and death are really sensitive. it is hard to help with legislation, but it is easy to harm. that is why it is profoundly important to respect good practices in the member states. on the other hand, it is vitally necessary to discover all those practices which cause lack of trust and transparency in managing waiting lists or lead to scandalous cases of misused loopholes in legislation. i would like to point out three topics in the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. first, living donors are mainly unrelated. in this regard, legal procedures should minimise the possibility of illicit organ selling. the question of reimbursement of the social costs of donors is still awaiting a suitable solution. secondly, in those cases where international cooperation is included in the transplantation process, legislation should ensure rules as clear as those within member states. transplantation tourism raises new questions, as the commissioner mentioned. how should we handle such cases? thirdly, international cooperation in detecting cases of organ trafficking should be more organised and more serious, because hidden trafficking and its consequences can destroy the hopes of thousands of patients waiting for life-saving organs. on the other hand, european legislation on trafficking in human beings should also include organ selling and trafficking, even if it is still hidden but becoming an increasing global problem. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs and thank them for good cooperation.
ladies and gentlemen, i join those who congratulate dr adamos adama on the preparation of this report, which was voted unanimously in the committee on the environment, with no member voting against. at the same time, no one objected in any of the committees that delivered an opinion. however, this rare agreement was also achieved thanks to the frequent and long negotiations organised by the rapporteur on this report. our role in transplantation is twofold: on the one hand, we have to help people whose only alternative to survival is a transplant, and on the other hand, we have to prevent organ trafficking, which is one of the most serious crimes. we know that the organ trade is now thriving mainly in poorer parts of the world, where organ donation has become the only way for the poor to survive. in this context, it is shocking to me that in today's european union, which is based on values, morals and ethics, someone is now calling for the legalisation of this trade. given the large gap between the supply of organs from living and dead donors and the demand, it is important to increase the number of donors. in the health programme 2008-2013 the commission also lists the evaluation of transplant outcomes as one of the priorities in health safety and therefore the possibility of drawing on grants for this purpose is also provided. while i welcome the possibility of funding projects through grants, i have a few reservations. i know this isn't a discussion about the 2008 health care plan. i must say that, as far as projects are concerned, i was struck by the mathematical discrepancy between the number of projects approved and the number of projects completed. in 2004, 72 projects were approved, 9 completed. in 2005, 61 were approved, 7 were completed. in 2006, 87 were approved and none were completed. in 2007, 6 projects were approved and 0 completed. is there any control over the effectiveness of these projects co-financed by the european union?
i would like to congratulate my colleague adama. in view of the lack of organs, some do not hesitate to resort to criminal methods. they made a lucrative trade in human organs from caring for human beings. children are the most vulnerable group. two weeks ago i called on slovakia, and now i am calling on the european parliament and the european commission, to launch an intensive campaign to raise the awareness of parents about the dangers facing their children. we'll launch a europe-wide campaign called do you know where your child is now? this campaign should make parents more responsible for their children. we take this problem very seriously. the european union must take measures to tackle the cross-border nature of the illicit trade in human organs.
in writing. let me make a very personal observation. although i am a member of the presidency of the great national association in slovakia, the forum of life, i know that even volunteers who act independently and not only through specialized associations, represent a light of hope that penetrates the darkness of loneliness and is a support in the struggle against the temptation of violence and selfishness. what motivates a volunteer to give of himself to others? it is primarily the natural enthusiasm of the heart that moves a person to help those around him. this theme is an existential law for the formation of human capital so necessary for the future of social cohesion in the regions. a volunteer experiences joy that transcends the activity he is involved in, because he is willing to give unselfishly of his best to others. it is not enough to meet people who are in material difficulty; their thirst for values and their deepest desires must also be satisfied. the kind of help we offer is important, but the heart that gives it is even more important. whether it is a micro-project or a large-scale project, volunteering should be a school of life, especially for young people, because it contributes to a culture of solidarity and coexistence, open to self-giving. this is, for me, the most important contribution to the sharing of present and future generations.
i voted in favour of mr adama's report on organ donation and transplantation. the shortage of organs for transplantation in europe, which is a major factor affecting transplantation programmes, needs to be addressed. in europe, there are almost 60,000 patients waiting for a transplant. the mortality rate while waiting for a heart, liver or lung transplant is between 15 and 30%. a 2006 eurobarometer survey says that 56% of europeans want to donate their organs for transplantation after their death. people should be encouraged to talk about organ donation and to inform their relatives of their intentions. there is also a need to improve the literacy of health professionals. statistics show that up to 81% of citizens in the member states of the european union support the use of organ donor cards to facilitate donor identification. however, only 12% of europeans currently have such a card. i support the commission's initiative to establish a european organ donor card.
in writing. −safe, successful and accessible organ donation and transplantation are among the vital issues facing europe today. more than 60,000 patients are waiting for a heart, liver, lung or kidney transplant. the mortality rate during the waiting period ranges from 15 to 30 percent. in today's vote, i supported the report of my colleague adamou-va. i welcome the initiative to create a legal framework that would establish a common methodology and criteria for organ donation and transplantation. i believe that consensus among member states is the first condition for improving the safety and quality of the transplantation process as a whole from pre-transplant examinations, selection of suitable donors, early intervention, to comprehensive post-operative patient monitoring. as a doctor, i also stress the crucial importance of close cooperation and exchange of best practice and knowledge between experts from the member states. reducing the shortage of organs is a serious challenge for europe. i fully supported the rapporteur's view that an effective european system should be established to identify persons who could become organ donors after death. these systems must provide an effective means of communication and information so that the organs of those who are willing to donate are truly available. another important step to increase the availability of donation should be to inform the public. this sensitive debate must be conducted at a society-wide level, which will certainly contribute to raising public awareness.
in writing. − volunteering is not receiving the support and attention it deserves in the eu, which is why i voted for the report by rapporteur marian harkin on the contribution of volunteering to economic and social cohesion. i agree with the rapporteur that the european institutions must build a flexible and non-bureaucratic support system. volunteering should not be underestimated as it is an important part of democratic life in europe and is carried out by more than 100 million europeans of all ages, faiths and nationalities. it represents a huge commitment of the people and builds a stronger alliance between citizens and the eu. in western european countries and the united states, volunteering has a long tradition. in contrast, non-governmental, non-profit and non-governmental organisations in post-communist countries began to form only in established democracies. the world organization of the scout movement was completely banned by the totalitarian communist regime. today, its activities attract enthusiasts of different age groups in different parts of the eu. we can't imagine any event today without the church and the charity organizations, without the red cross. volunteers help to activate and mobilise citizens and disadvantaged communities, for example in the european voluntary centre, the european civic youth forum, through the development, renewal and dissemination of traditions, the originality and diversity of regions. i see volunteering as a form of renewable energy and therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to declare 2011 the european year of voluntary service.
in writing. − firstly, the problem of financing ngos from community resources. small organisations carrying out very useful work at local and regional level cannot prepare applications without special assistance. the paperwork to be filled out is as crude and slow as bratislava's phone book. the bureaucracy has become so complicated that it stifles the enthusiasm of the volunteers. community programmes must be clearly protected against abuse. but precaution and prevention must not be an obstacle to their availability to citizens. secondly, from my personal experience as a member of the life forum presidency, i can confirm that the contribution of volunteering to social cohesion is expressed through the formation of human capital, whatever the age of the volunteers. at the forum of life, young people learn responsibility, generosity and experience of building relationships between people. human capital is the greatest contribution of volunteering to social cohesion. member states and regions are therefore encouraged to adopt this best form of investment in the future. third, volunteering must be recognized. in the face of changes in the world of work and the importance of solidarity between generations in families and societies, men and women need to be officially recognised for the time they spend on voluntary work. i am the rapporteur on this issue in the committee on women's rights, so we will be able to continue the debate we have just started in the autumn.
in writing. − without multilingualism, europe will not survive. the first european community regulation in 1958 was on multilingualism. the union does not operate in one or more languages of its own choosing which the majority of its inhabitants may not understand. translations of legislative, policy and administrative documents enable the union to fulfil its legal obligations. multilingualism contributes to improving the union's transparency, legitimacy and efficiency. the constraints imposed by the multilingualism regime have a positive impact on the duplication of documents and the required deadlines have been respected. on behalf of the slovak language (and those who use it), i ask that the necessary resources be included in the 2009 budget to address the shortage of translators in the institutions of the european union. i ask the european parliament to ensure that all legislative, political and administrative documents of this legislative period are translated and published in slovak and all other official languages of the union without delay, so that citizens can follow the political work of all the institutions, in particular the verbatim minutes of parliamentary debates. i hereby announce that i am making a written declaration in support of the maintenance of the multilingualism regime and i call on slovak translators and interpreters to contribute to multilingualism in europe with their language skills.
food price rises are a consequence of the current volatility of agricultural markets, which are otherwise inherently unstable. the primary task of agricultural policies has therefore always been and remains to eliminate such instability. i'm going to bring up the biblical story of the seven fat cows and the seven lean cows, when a society thousands of years ago, by organizing agricultural markets, was able to prevent agricultural market volatility and provide egypt with the conditions for prosperity, while other societies suffered from famine and wars for lack of food. the whole of human history has been decisively dependent on the ability of each society to accept this priority of agricultural policy. the ongoing struggle in the wto for military, power or trade and economic national interests that we are witnessing today, however, is unfortunately a confirmation of quite different priorities for agricultural policies in the world today. the organisation of agricultural market stability must therefore also be made a priority of the wto to promote the usefulness of any national policies, including our common agricultural policy. otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we are beating the dust and will continue to do so until the global food crisis forces us to take radical measures, always to the detriment of the public, of the farmers, of course, but to the benefit of the speculators. the most important thing is to have the courage to face the truth.
when we face problems like today's, we should first think about why they arose. like the demographic crisis, human trafficking, global warming, cancer, and terrorism, the problem of rising food prices did not arise spontaneously and overnight. even with rising food prices and the impact of this on the population, we tend to deal with the consequences and not think about the causes. but the truth is that only by addressing the causes can we prevent the crisis from worsening. with food prices rising and nutrition threatened in some parts of the world, we must also talk about the quality and quantity of food, one of the fundamental aspects of the life of every person, family, and nation on this earth. how can a young person develop physically, intellectually, and spiritually if he lacks access to the nutrition that is essential for him? how can a mother and father provide for their family if they do not have the food to fulfill this responsibility? let us not forget that it was the richest countries that used, often unfairly, the wealth of poor countries without any compensation. they disregarded the ecological balance, and today we see the consequences of their behavior on the poorest of the population. maybe we don't have to go far. look at our institutions, which, thanks to internal regulations, throw away a lot of food every day, while people who are hungry live right next to us. hungry people anywhere in the world are usually bad partners.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs barsi-pataky, who has been working on this issue for a long time and has made a significant contribution to the joint decisions and agreements in favour of the galileo programme. in my contribution, i would like to highlight two important aspects which are crucial for the successful implementation of european satellite radio navigation programmes. i appreciate the joint agreement and decision on the budget for these programmes that it was possible to find additional resources after the failure of the public-private funding model for galileo. i think that was a very responsible and rational decision by all the european institutions. we in the itre committee, as well as in the plenary, have also taken a very strongly positive stance on this. i believe that the european union, through its public resources, must be involved in such programmes and in the development of this sector, which has considerable potential for the development of new services with high added value, necessary for almost every area of society. the second aspect of the implementation of the programmes concerned is the procurement process related to the galileo construction phase. here again, i welcome the proposal for a balanced participation of the sector at all levels, with the involvement of smes in all member states. similarly, the division of infrastructure procurement into a set of six main and several complementary work packages will bring more opportunities for the possibility of participation of a large number of suppliers in the tender, which can only improve the quality of the whole implementation process. i would like to take this opportunity to call on all relevant institutions at european and national level to launch the most prominent publicity campaign possible to ensure access for all stakeholders in both the construction and operation of galileo.
my dear colleagues, my visit to china in march of this year has convinced me of the relevance of this debate. i think the european union has not only a major trading partner in china, but also a serious competitor. the report by mrs gomes is only a confirmation of my own experience. i've had the opportunity to see the amazing workmanship of cheap labor. despite the fact that china faces large social and economic inequalities and alarming environmental degradation, with political rights and fundamental freedoms still severely restricted, it has significant experience that can help african countries. africa struggles with poverty, but it's rich in resources. with demand from china and other interested parties, african countries can gain a better position in the market. the eu is now africa's largest aid donor and its most important trading partner. china has ambitions to become africa's largest economic partner by 2010. china's presence in africa is therefore a major challenge for the eu.
ladies and gentlemen, i was very impressed by my meeting with the president of the pan-african parliament, mrs getrude mongella, in the european parliament. in the ep, getrude mongella said: europe has a big role to play in africa. europe has been present in africa for a long time, in both positive and negative terms. europe has the technology, europe has the resources, europe is developing its scientific knowledge. europe can play a big role in this. moreover, europe cannot afford to exist without africa. 10 years i consider the european development fund for the period 2008-2013 to be an important instrument for the fulfilment of the political commitments of the eu and its member states to provide development assistance, and therefore i call on the eu member states and the acp countries that have not yet ratified the internal agreement and the revised cotonou agreement to do so so so that the fund can enter into force as soon as possible.
the forthcoming european union-latin america and caribbean summit will be the fifth meeting of the two regions' heads of state or government. the summit will focus on the priorities to which it will give increased attention, namely: the fight against poverty, inequality and discrimination, sustainable development, climate change, the environment and energy. as vice-president of eurolat, i would like to make a statement on the environment, and specifically on water. i have prepared a working document for the next meeting in lima, discussing the current state of play of the european union in relation to this important natural resource. i also work on european union water assistance to latin america, providing an overview of this assistance through a number of projects in areas such as water supply and sanitation, integrated management, research, monitoring, and natural disaster prevention. in conclusion, i would stress the need for a global approach to this issue through institutional and legislative change and innovation in the water sector. access to clean water and proper wastewater disposal solutions, as well as sanitation are important prerequisites for public health.
we welcome the initiative of the european commission and see it as a step towards the equalization of citizens of all the member states of the european union, including those who will be in the european union for a fourth year in may and are still subject to a strict visa policy by the united states of america. the government of the slovak republic is among those conducting bilateral negotiations with the united states, but in the sincere belief that these will lead to faster and more accommodating actions on the part of washington. i would therefore very much like the bilateral negotiations of the slovak government to be perceived in european circles as a positive step, complementary to and not replacing the activities of the european institutions. i would also like to stress that this is not about any wrongdoing on the part of our governments, but that we are concerned with respecting the fundamental principles of the community, and one of those principles is equality for all citizens.
thank you, mr president. i supported the report on macedonia because it is an important message for the macedonian people. the country has made a lot of progress since the 2007 report. he's doing well in the economy, he's doing well in the legislature. consensus was reached on domestic policy, and coexistence between several national and ethnic communities was effectively organised. the loridian framework convention and the vadinter system are being applied consistently, bringing a new approach to political issues that ensures the preservation of identity and proportional representation of minorities. macedonia has undergone a complex economic and social development, leading it to become a candidate country for eu membership in 2005. it is a sad fact that the nato summit in bucharest was a rejection of the message, and that greece's petty and illogical behaviour played a decisive role in it. i hope that the name will not be a barrier to membership for the union, and i am glad that the ep has reached a compromise on this issue. our decision should be a positive message, because the rejection and the delay of the eu is a disappointment for the country. it is time to start substantive accession negotiations with the country. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − the resolution on organ donation and transplantation is part of the global debate on child safety. to protect them effectively, i am organising a european campaign with the slogan do you know where your child is? the chapter of this resolution devoted to organ trafficking is directly related to it. the requirement that member states, as well as the council of europe, take effective measures to break the link between the shortage of organs and their illicit trade is therefore more than justified. the fight against organ trafficking must be accompanied by a long-term strategy to end the social inequalities that underpin such practices. we must fight against the trafficking of organs and tissues, which must be banned generally, especially as regards organ and tissue transplantation from adolescents. i am deeply disappointed that europol has not produced any study on organ sales and trafficking, on the grounds that there are no documented cases. but reports from the council of europe and the world health organization clearly demonstrate that organ trafficking is also a problem for the member states of the union. we therefore call on the european commission and europol to improve the monitoring of organ trafficking cases and draw the necessary conclusions. i will be happy if slovakia can use its presidency of the council of ministers of the council of europe to accelerate this very important agenda.
as few people doubt the importance of the wto, almost no one doubts the need to reform this organisation, whose main objective remains to fight poverty and help developing countries. the reform is to be carried out on the basis of the sutherland report. as we know, mr. sutherland is currently the head of two multinational giants: bp and goldman sachs international. the other members of his team are former diplomats, businessmen, academics, none of whom are known critics of the current system. with all due respect to these gentlemen, whose interests will be served by the wto reform proposed by these gentlemen? will it be the interests of developing countries or the interests of multinational corporations? what message does this send to developing countries and less developed countries? as we all know, trust is very important in economics and politics. the wto is not only an economic institution but also a political one, and therefore trust between members is important. but do people in developing countries believe that the masters of the multinational corporations have their best interests at heart? why should we in this way unnecessarily put arguments in the hands of opponents of the wto and gamble with the image of this institution?
opposition fears that mugabe would choose to use force to cover up his ruling party's defeat in the march 29 election have been confirmed. a peaceful opposition demonstration protesting the late announcement of the election results resulted in 36 arrests. china's interest in african oil has entered the country's problems, which is in deep economic crisis and hundreds of thousands of people are leaving for better living conditions. in exchange for arms, china supports corruption and dictatorship and is one of robert mugabe's biggest trading partners and aid donors. i support the european parliament resolution on zimbabwe which supports the opposition, condemns the frequent racist rhetoric of robert mugabe's supporters and calls on china to make amends.
i would also like to add my voice to the difficult situation facing the people of chad. as we know from the latest information, in addition to the 300 000 refugees in the eastern parts, there are 200 000 internally displaced persons who are actually subjected in these camps to a difficult humanitarian and humanly difficult situation, a humanitarian crisis and an intolerable situation. if we add to this the lack of food, the lack of medicine, the dramatic abuse of the people's freedom, the spread of drugs and the spread of diseases among the people who are detained in these conditions or who are there, we have no choice but to appeal to support the democratic process and to have the rebels suppressed with the help of european troops.
i would like to thank the commission and the commissioner personally, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the slovak government, for today's official positive opinion of the commission in relation to slovakia. the slovak government has taken a conscientious and responsible approach not only to meeting the mandatory criteria but also to ensuring the smooth running of the overall euro changeover process on 1 january 2009, including ensuring the sustainability of the criteria. i cannot help but react to what mr langen said in this connection. mr president, if other countries in the euro area had had such budgetary discipline and had had at least half the economic growth of the slovak republic, the euro might have been an even stronger currency today, and i do not want to mention the measures that some countries still have against some new member states of the european union, namely measures to restrict access to labour markets. so if we were to remove these constraints as soon as possible in the future, perhaps we could talk about better economic and economic growth in the european union in general.
today, as we mark the 10th anniversary of the introduction of the single currency, the euro, is a significant day for the slovak republic, which will most likely be paying in euros from 1 january 2009. in its convergence report, the european commission found that slovakia was meeting the maastricht criteria sustainably and recommended slovakia as the 16th member of the euro area as of january 2009. today, i would like to stress that slovakia is getting a chance to join the euro area thanks to the major reforms adopted by the former slovak government of mikuláš dzurinda. i hope that the present slovak government will also take the european commission's recommendations seriously and learn from the slovak experience. i believe that slovakia will be able to eliminate the sceptical concerns mr langen raised in today's debate. i am convinced that the achievements presented by commissioner almuni will also inspire optimism in the slovak public, as slovakia can learn from the experience of malta and cyprus, where inflation data are so far stable.
thank you, madam president. georgia is very close to war, the georgian minister for reintegration affairs said yesterday. indeed, tensions are rising between georgia and russia. the decree of putin ordering state bodies to cooperate more closely with abkhazia and south ossetia, the shooting down of the georgian drone and the dispatch of additional russian military units to abkhazia give rise to serious concerns of saakashvili. russia is seeking to disregard the territorial integrity of georgia and gradually bring the two breakaway territories of georgia under its jurisdiction. the russian side's motives are typical of their great power politics. 80% of abkhazia's population already has russian citizenship, so they claim they have a duty to protect them. also characteristic was yesterday's statement by general alexei maslov, the commander-in-chief of the ground forces: "the increase in forces in abkhazia serves to prevent armed conflict and to ensure stability in the transcaucasian region". russian power simply cannot tolerate that georgia has chosen an independent, independent path of euro-atlantic integration. georgia is an integral part of the european neighbourhood policy. we have an obligation to support the georgian reforms, the establishment of democracy and the rule of law to the fullest extent possible. the consistent work of the interparliamentary committee is also serving this purpose. we met in tbilisi last week and made some very strong recommendations. we also visited the so-called conflict zone of abkhazia, where conditions are untenable. i believe that we must provide stronger and clearer support to georgia and put more pressure on the russian side. the peacekeeping force should be made international, neutral. tbilisi is calm, and wants to resolve the situation peacefully. georgia is on the verge of an early parliamentary election. this is an important test for the young and fragile georgian democracy, which we must give all the help we can to succeed. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, let me begin by congratulating my colleague, mr ford, rapporteur of this report. the proposed trade agreement with asean forms part of a wider strategy of bilateral and interregional negotiations with eu trading partners. if considered as a single entity, asean would be the eu’s fifth-largest trading partner, ahead of japan. asean is an extremely diverse region with three of its members being ldcs, while others have a higher income per head than many eu member states. i and my colleagues in inta strongly support the commission’s first option: to negotiate with the region as a whole, to strengthen regional economic integration between the asean countries. the report stresses the importance of interregional trade agreements, which can usually supplement the multicultural system – provided they are wide-ranging and ambitious, going well beyond tariff reductions – and implement social and environmental standards. the report urges the parties to progressively reduce or dismantle all barriers to trade in goods and services, while fully respecting the differing economic positions within the asean region. it also urges the commission to ensure transparency and effective rules for public procurement – iprs, state aid and other subsidies. in conclusion, let me also thank the rapporteur for his positive collaboration, reflected in some compromise amendments which put the report’s main emphasis on trade and trade related issues, alongside topics of human rights and sustainable development. adoption of these and other amendments made the report more balanced.
lobbying is a legitimate part of any democratic system. since democracy is not anarchy, there must be clear rules on lobbying. i think the us lobbying law is too strict, and in the new member states there are no rules, and even lobbying is often seen in a negative light. the eu model should therefore move between these two. proposal to establish a common interinstitutional system of mandatory registration of lobbyists with the eu, publication of financial background and 'legislative footprint' to the treasuries for contributing to the transparency of lobbying rules. but i believe that even after today's vote, the churches will remain our partners and will not be included among the lobbying groups. i am convinced that the stubb-friedrich report will dispel all prejudices and negative myths about lobbying and that european citizens will look to lobbyists as experts bringing practical knowledge to help avoid the negative impact of european legislation.
i congratulate the rapporteur on a quality report. this budget is specific in that it must take account of significant new developments. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, the elections to the european parliament, the introduction of a new statute for members, and i believe also for assistants. but we also need to take into account and set efficiently the parameters of real estate policy, including expenditure on maintenance and environmental protection. in order to make the right decision, we need a long-term strategy in this area, which we will be able to assess as early as next month. our main mission is to prepare quality legislation. the design of the knowledge management system, the interpretation and translation services and the library's analytical service will bring about higher quality and resource savings. this is why we need to have all the necessary analyses before the first reading of the budget to show our citizens that we are using their finances responsibly.
mr president, distinguished members of parliament, distinguished guests. the report correctly recognises the positive role played by the euro in reducing the cost of financial operations. the facilitation of price comparisons in cross-border trade and the enhancement of the retail potential of the internal market were also important for consumers. i agree that the new member states should be encouraged to continue with their reforms and be able to adopt the euro as soon as it meets the maastricht criteria, in order to benefit from the positive effects of the single currency on the internal market. the opportunity for the european parliament to actively implement this thesis will soon be available when it debates the opinion on the enlargement of the euro area to include the slovak republic. slovakia met the maastricht convergence criteria with little effort and significantly ahead of schedule. i reject the approach when some colleagues start to make the rubbery and vague counter-argument about the sustainability of these criteria. that would be a never-ending story.
i welcome the commission's communication on the eu consumer policy strategy and i also appreciate your efforts, commissioner kuneva, to promote a consumer culture based on a higher level of consumer awareness. i believe that strong and independent consumer organisations are the basis of an effective consumer policy, and i am therefore pleased that my amendments, in which the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to provide adequate funding for consumer organisations, have been incorporated in paragraph 7 of mr lehtinen's report. this is mainly financial support for intensive training programmes aimed at training staff of consumer organisations. consumer organisations have the best knowledge of consumer needs and must therefore be consulted on all consumer policy areas that have an impact on consumers. i agree with both amendments by my epp-ed group to paragraph 40 of the report on the filing of collective actions. only where necessary based on an impact study should the commission propose a european framework to allow all consumers in member states effective access to the various compensation mechanisms for the settlement of cross-border complaints.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much, mr. president. dear officer, dear colleagues. the rejection of discrimination is a fundamental human value, and there is no disagreement between us on this. the european people's party attaches great importance to the policy of non-discrimination. it is convinced that the responsibility of the member states to ensure that no citizen of the union is discriminated against is indisputable and unavoidable. he also realizes that laws cannot solve everything. political culture, tolerance in everyday life, in the workplace, in public life, in communication, from the national level to the local level, the coming together of civil society is necessary for the gradual elimination of discrimination. the implementation of the european anti-discrimination directives is not easy, as practice shows. half of the member states have failed to transpose or apply the directives adequately. it is a fact that there is a real margin in european legislation, taking into account article 13 of the treaty and existing directives. this means that not all the so-called protected groups referred to in article 13 of the treaty are granted equal rights of access to goods and services by european legislation. the european people's party, however, does not see the solution to this in a comprehensive, difficult to implement and ineffective directive, but feels that it is necessary to eliminate discrimination against the 84 million disabled people living in the european union on an urgent basis, not on a hierarchical basis, by means of a european directive, so that people with disabilities have the same rights throughout the union. given that the average age of the population is increasing and that chronic diseases associated with age often lead to deterioration in health, the proportion of people with disabilities will increase in the future. we believe that this approach can provide more effective, realistic help to people with disabilities. it therefore supports the european commission's initiative in this direction. thank you, sir.
for the ppe-de group. thank you very much, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. let me, on behalf of the shadow rapporteur for the people's party, mrs sartori, and on my behalf, congratulate mrs thomsen. i would say that the situation of women in science is comparable to the situation of women in politics, although in science they are a little bit more represented. this is despite the fact that around 60% of university graduates are women. a scientific career requires a higher commitment of more than eight hours. competition is just as fierce, with women often only pushing themselves to greater heights than men. this fact was brought to my attention by an older colleague when i began my scientific career many years ago. the question is, why is the representation of women in science so low, why is there an outflow of young female scientists over time, and so ultimately why are we losing scientific talent? for women in science, the conditions created for reconciling work and family life are indeed of cardinal importance. the fulfilment of the barcelona objectives is particularly important in this respect. if women are to succeed in science, they need to have services they can rely on, which are accessible, of good quality and appropriate to the nature and requirements of scientific work, and sufficiently flexible. however, the question of supporting science and development in general also needs to be considered. in fact, financial valuation is among the lowest, it cannot be expected to be an attractive profession for young women or even for young men starting families. it has to be said that in countries, especially in the new member states, where the support for science and research is less than 1% of gdp, this is a really big problem. the last sentence. but the situation cannot be solved by quotas, rather by changing the conditions.
in order to meet the objectives of the lisbon strategy, the european union must make it a priority to create a broad base of scientists capable of carrying out high-quality research at the highest international level. the participation of women in science does not meet the needs of research, even though women are more highly educated and more numerous than men. therefore, it is necessary to focus on educating and supporting top-class female scientists, to motivate talented women to pursue scientific careers by creating good opportunities for quality scientific work, and to ensure adequate career and financial rewards. today, there are still barriers that prevent women from engaging in scientific careers. the psychological aspect and sometimes the lack of solidarity of women themselves towards women also play a role. the fact is that it is more difficult for women researchers to reconcile work and family life. the interruption of scientific activities for family reasons has a negative impact on their career prospects. scientific work is a continuous work, so it would be advantageous to allow women to work at home, unless their presence in the workplace is essential. mobility problems affect mainly women, who tend to care for children, the elderly or other dependent family members. women would be welcome if facilities for young children were set up at scientific institutes. i think that quotas will not solve the problem of the absence of women in science unless women themselves want to change this situation. they need to have conditions, more trust and solidarity with each other. i believe that the challenges under the seventh framework programme and in scientific research programmes will support projects that encourage women to pursue scientific careers. it is important that the selection of projects is carried out in a transparent manner, and women should therefore be represented on an equal footing in the selection and evaluation committees.
europe needs today, as the honourable member has just said, more than 700 000 researchers, and i think that is alarming. women could fill that gap. current statistics show that women are more educated than men, yet they account for only one third of researchers in the public sector and only 18% in the private sector. i believe that it is essential to overcome gender stereotypes, which affect not only young women's choice of studies but also the process of allocating work, funding research and recruiting women. i agree that it is necessary to ensure the involvement of women in european and national programmes, but not through quotas. i also support the idea of developing new forms of flexible working hours which will allow women to continue their research work even after they become mothers. this can go a long way towards increasing the representation of women in senior scientific positions.
thank you for your words, mr. chairman. the report by mr papadimoulis mentions dental amalgam as one of the sources of mercury stocks in europe. let me give you some interesting numbers. dentists in the european union consume 125 tonnes of mercury a year. they make over 200 million mercury fillings a year. our citizens carry more than 1,100 tons of mercury in their mouths. the amalgam waste, which contains 50% mercury, is generated during the processing of dental amalgam, its application, the drilling of original fillings, the cremation of the deceased. mercury is also produced by extracted teeth and possible infiltration of groundwater during burial. dental mercury is also released into the air by the incineration of municipal waste. all this places dental practices in second or third place in the production of mercury waste in the european union. i am glad that the report reflects these facts.
climate change seriously affects not only ecosystems but also the economy, public health, food and water security and migration. state-of-the-art scientific studies show that the global warming trend is also man-made, and therefore it is up to societies to prepare effective policy measures. i welcome the interim report of the climate change committee and its recommendations for the future integrated climate change policy of the eu, and strongly support the view that the global average temperature increase should not exceed 2 °c. in addition, the european union should make efforts to reduce emissions so that temperatures remain well below this two-degree limit. the dissemination of scientific evidence to the public should be an important tool in the effort to mitigate climate change and thus contribute to raising awareness of the issue.
i voted in favour of the draft interim report by rapporteur karl-heinz florenz, in which scientific knowledge on climate change plays an important role. however, i also regret that some of the amendments tabled by mr březin and 40 members, in particular amendment no 15, were not accepted in this report because they would have improved the text of the report. scientists are constantly revising their claims, so we need to be open to new ideas. part of the global climate change caused by human activity is largely driven by land drainage. therefore, the retention of rainwater in the territory and the drainage of only natural surplus water in the territory is a prerequisite for ensuring environmental security, global stability and, last but not least, for sustaining economic growth. i believe that the new water paradigm will be such a new idea in the coming decades and become the programmatic statement of mankind for the maintenance of civilization.
in writing. − thank you, ms thomsen, for the report which points to a certain type of discrimination against women in science and research. despite representing more than 50% of european students, only 15% hold senior positions in science and research. university education is rarely a sought-after outcome that corresponds to a significant investment of time and money. women often sacrifice or have to reconcile private and family life during their long years of study. society should be interested in cooperating and promoting citizens who have high intellectual potential and translating it into the cultural, spiritual, historical and even scientific property of the nation. special maternity affects women's career progression and paradoxically punishes them in the possibility of occupying important positions, of achieving, of being fairly remunerated and does not offer them adequate compensation for the social investment of having and raising children who are responsible for tomorrow. i see the solution in adjustments to the study of young women, to distance education and work, to lifelong learning, to encouraging fathers to support mothers who want to become scientists. the state also has a responsibility to support women engaged in scientific work and to support them during their studies, in reconciling family and working life, in the area of fair remuneration, through direct social benefits and in the most natural forms of childcare assistance.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mrs oomen-ruijten on turkey's progress in 2007, which calls on the turkish government to fulfil all its reform promises and modernise the country. at the same time, i would like to emphasise my long-standing view, shared by the vast majority of europeans, that the eu should not offer turkey the prospect of full membership. turkey is outside the european identity, geographically, culturally and spiritually. moreover, the union budget is not and will not be able to bear the burden of full membership for turkey. however, i support the vision of building a close cooperation, a so-called 'strategic partnership' between the eu and turkey. that is how i understand the significance of the report submitted. i appreciate that turkey made some progress in 2007 in a number of areas. however, the human rights situation remains very deplorable. in the context of this report, we should press more strongly for the improvement of the status of national minorities (particularly the kurdish minority) and for the establishment of full freedom of speech and freedom of religion. in this context, i would like to express my support for the call for the complete repeal of article 301 of the turkish penal code and for the immediate reopening of the orthodox seminary in halki. it is also necessary to demand that turkey cleanse its historical memory and acknowledge the armenian genocide as well as the illegality of its military intervention in cyprus.
, in writing. i am shocked by the enormous misfortune that has befallen the people of burma. it is damning that the generals who hold the country firmly in their hands cannot be softened by the huge number of victims of the devastating cyclone nargis, whose number may increase due to the lack of drinking water, food, medical assistance. i cannot understand what kind of people are playing with the fate of their own people and keeping burma in complete isolation when it is clear that the country cannot help itself. the arrogance of power probably knows no bounds. the question of state sovereignty in such an emergency situation is absolutely inhumane. the humanitarian organization oxfam warned that if aid is not quickly provided to the affected people, the death toll could reach as high as 1.5 million. according to the un, up to 2 million people have been affected by the disaster and are in need of aid. these voices are alarming and demand a clear and swift statement. we cannot wait any longer and helplessly watch as hunger devours more victims. i shall vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the tragic situation in burma. i am convinced that the eu must not remain indifferent and must use all the means at its disposal to help the burmese people. given the enormous scale of this disaster, the eu must also use coercive measures when 'national authorities are clearly unable to protect their populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity'.
i welcome the release of four prisoners of conscience, as well as cuba's signature of two international human rights treaties of the united nations on 28 february 2008. however, at least 58 people remain in cuban prisons solely for exercising their fundamental rights. what can the council do for prisoners of conscience from the march day massacre, in the sense of these two un human rights conventions? i believe that the council will call on the cuban authorities to have all the cases of dissidents reviewed by an independent and impartial tribunal and to try to secure their release.
for the ppe-de group. the report on development aid effectiveness is important for three reasons. first of all, it concerns the responsibility of the european commission to manage the funds of the citizens of the european union well. the report also highlights the need to better structure development programmes. finally, the report calls for political courage to control the budget and to fight against its misuse. i congratulate our colleague mr van hecke on this report, which underlines the union's dual responsibility. responsibility to the outside and responsibility to the inside. the value of external relations lies in the volume of funds we have committed to developing countries and the way they are distributed. we all know that the effectiveness of the use of financial assistance is very difficult to measure. often, the political and cultural circumstances in developing countries force donors to adopt a creative and flexible budgetary approach. however, i must say that creativity and flexibility cannot override the requirement of transparency and honesty. we are honest when we admit that european public finances often do not bear the expected fruit and when we stop any misuse of them. in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of development aid, the beneficiary should confirm by signing that the project has actually worked over the long term. it must be said that the most important responsibility of the european commission and the european parliament is the internal responsibility of being honest with the european citizens. it's our taxes that the european union is using to fund development aid, and we know very little about its effectiveness. i congratulate my colleague mr bösch, who recently criticised the way the european union distributes development aid from taxpayers' money. development aid effectiveness is not just a mandatory budgetary exercise, it is also an exercise in political courage to point out that taxpayers' money must be used efficiently.
in 2001, the council exempted us citizens from the visa requirement. unfortunately, a comparable exemption does not apply to all citizens of the european union. the united states still requires a visa requirement for nationals of some member states, currently bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, greece, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, romania and slovakia. the criterion is the number of visa applications rejected, which is set at the 10% threshold. the procedure for granting them is often based on non-transparent criteria, according to the applicants. on the one hand, since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam in 1999, the council has been responsible for setting the rules on eu visa policy. secondly, the rule is that the united states is only willing to negotiate bilaterally for countries to be included in the visa waiver program, as this is in accordance with its national legislation and only countries and not the international communities can enter this program. i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the eu-us negotiations, which is the result of intensive discussions in the european parliament. i hope it will remove all doubt about the legitimate efforts of the new member states to bridge the gap between the old and the new member states of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the natural disaster in china. earthquakes are among the deadliest and most destructive natural disasters in the world, causing enormous loss of life and extensive damage to property. the 7.8-magnitude earthquake in china shocked people around the world. the huge number of human lives and the plight of all those suffering from the earthquake are the terrible consequences of the devastating earthquake, especially in the province of sechuan. i express my deepest sympathy and solidarity with the chinese people and the many victims. it is commendable that the chinese authorities reacted to the disaster in a timely manner by adopting crisis measures. china's willingness to accept foreign aid is to be commended. the fact that chinese and foreign media can provide detailed and accurate information about the disaster is a welcome sign. i appreciate that to date the eu has provided more than eur 10 million. but china needs europeans' practical experience more than financial aid. therefore, best practices in providing assistance to the civilian population and in mitigating the consequences should be made available. it is necessary to apply eu seismic knowledge and to identify the reasons for the lack of stability of the objects. the sechuan seismic area should be turned into an open-air laboratory to explore the possibilities and use the knowledge for the reconstruction of the province.
i am very saddened, colleagues, that the situation regarding democracy, human rights and the rule of law is not improving in belarus. the arrogance of alexander lukashenko's power knows no bounds. the belarusian government's declarations of its intention to improve relations with the european union are a mockery to the democratic world. i believe that the symbolic date of 25 march 2008, when lukashenko used security forces against peaceful belarusian citizens in minsk, will be similar to the historic candlelight demonstration in slovakia on 25 march 1988 as the beginning of the end of the totalitarian state in belarus. i express my solidarity with the united democratic opposition of belarus and with all belarusian citizens. i call on the council and the commission to consider the possibility of reducing the cost of visas for belarusian citizens entering the schengen area, which is the only way to avoid increasing the isolation of belarusian citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to welcome the 2006 annual report and acknowledge the progress made in the structure of this report. the european parliament must take a stronger stance and speak with one voice on the issues under discussion which should be systematically addressed by the council. in this respect, i welcome the provisions on closer cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments, as well as the increased responsibility of national parliaments and member states' governments for strategic decisions. i hope that the new structure of the european diplomatic service will also include representatives of the new member states. i am convinced that the treaty of lisbon will give europe a clearer voice in the field of external relations. it is important that member states increase the frequency of consultations with partners and the high representative of the european union, in particular when taking key decisions. the union's single legal personality will enable the european union to conclude international agreements and to join international organisations. these binding decisions should also take into account the concerns and expectations of european citizens on international issues.
the document under discussion is based in particular on the european security strategy adopted by the council in december 2003 and on the may 2007 resolution on a common foreign policy. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr saryusz wolski, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, for presenting a comprehensive and high-quality text for our vote. i would like to highlight several aspects of european foreign policy which cannot help but cooperate strategically with the strongest ally, the united states of america, which is appropriately captured in the eu-us transatlantic partnership agreement, which also includes the dimension of economic relations. this is closely linked not only to military cooperation with the us but also to cooperation within nato. naturally, it is necessary to clarify and state clearly whether the security umbrella built by the radar system in poland and the czech republic will serve and effectively protect common european interests, or whether it is just an individual initiative in an effort to act preventively against threats from asia, in particular the behaviour of iran in the middle east region. we all know that iran is providing military and financial support to syria and especially to terrorist groups operating in the region, which are constantly threatening stability and peace with hezbollah's operations in southern lebanon and syria. iran is not hiding its desire to achieve hegemonic status, which it is promoting through its military nuclear program. i would like to ask, however, whether it is possible to base the foreign policy document under discussion today on references to the treaty of lisbon, which is mentioned several times in the text, but which is not yet valid, since the ratification process has not been completed by all the member states. and i also want to ask, under what legal standard did the european union send a mission to kosovo? wasn't that actually an ante legem action? there is certainly no un resolution that would justify such a move.
mr president, mr high commissioner, i am speaking directly to you about the persecution of christians in algeria. what action has the european union taken in response to anti-christian persecution in a state with which we have close relations? freedom of religion has been codified in article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights, which also provides for the obligation of each state to enforce these rights. algeria is a member of the united nations but it is violating this fundamental right. christians are full citizens, enjoying the same right to organise their worship as other religious communities. i therefore beg you, mr high commissioner, to use all diplomatic means, direct or indirect, to put an end to the persecution of christians. the credibility of the european union is also at stake.
like my colleagues before me, i would like to commend the work of mr saryusz wolski and mr kuhn, and i would particularly like to commend the balance between the human rights and economic aspects provided in the report. i think it's going to be very important for the future that we put more emphasis and better preparation on our two biggest partners, the united states of america, but also on russia. we have a new president in russia. in the united states of america, we will soon have a new administration, and it will therefore be very appropriate for us to focus our common foreign policy on these two countries. as regards the economic dimension, the need to ensure the energy security of the european union should be emphasised in particular. i believe that the negotiations with the russian federation in particular will make progress in this direction. and speaking of our two partners, it would be very good if we were to act as an equal and equally competent partner in relation to both parties, whether it be the united states of america or the russian federation, so that the policy is balanced. in conclusion, mr president, i would also like to thank you for mentioning the treaty of lisbon, because by mentioning it in the report we are showing that parliament is counting on and is in favour of ratifying the treaty of lisbon.
ladies and gentlemen, at the july 2007 committee on the internal market and consumer protection's visit to washington, i became convinced of the importance of cooperation between the united states and the european union. i am convinced that a joint eu-us approach to customs controls, intellectual property, mutual recognition, conformity assessment, harmonisation of standards can create a new transatlantic trading area that will benefit businesses and consumers on both sides of the atlantic. at the moment, when the toy directive is being discussed in the european parliament, it would be very useful to find a common approach also on the safety of toys. i believe that commissioner verheugen, who represents the european union in the transatlantic dialogue, can do a great deal of work in these areas. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the outcome of the upcoming eu-us summit will be the abolition of the visa requirement for all eu citizens, including the citizens of my country, slovakia.
ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of a recent case that took place on british soil. our citizen, a legal worker, has exceeded the four-day deadline for the re-registration of his vehicle, and for this offence, the british police are threatening to destroy his vehicle. the police conducted their investigation in a xenophobic and disgraceful manner, taking advantage of his passive knowledge of english. arbitrarily withholding all his documents, providing a scrap of paper torn from a newspaper instead of an official vehicle seizure document, not respecting documents such as a european insurance green card or slovak power of attorney, which the british authorities also refused to accept. for this, i note, misdemeanor in the british police's footsteps, the authorities are threatening to scrap the vehicle. i would like to thank member chris davies for his help in investigating this unfortunate case, as well as the other meps from the uk who have taken an interest in the case. i believe that the british police's action is unusual and that this approach to citizens who are legally working in the territory is not the norm. the deadline for returning the vehicle expired yesterday, and we still have no information as to whether or not the vehicle was destroyed. in any case, our citizen does not have this vehicle, despite the fact that the british authorities have received all the documents.
in writing. a well-functioning single financial market is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the lisbon agenda. banks have an important role in the application of monetary policy conditions, in particular to smes and consumers. many clients would be interested in using crossborder financial services, but opening accounts in banks in eu member states is accompanied by bureaucratic procedures that often discourage clients. the european banking industry should improve and simplify the process of closing accounts. bank statements are still very complex and not understood by many consumers. the complexity of financial products prevents consumers from making responsible choices. consumers are also burdened by excessively high bank charges for banking services and issuing bank cards. i think the eu should not regulate bank charges, but it should ensure competitiveness in the banking sector. consumer awareness is essential to ensure competition between banks. i believe that consumer organisations play an important role in being able to select the information they consider necessary for consumers to be able to make an appropriate choice of banking products. they can coordinate financial education programmes aimed at raising consumers' awareness of the possibilities of managing their money. they also help very vulnerable consumers. i believe that there will come a time in the eu when consumer organisations will no longer struggle for survival, because once those responsible for consumer policy understand that without finance, they cannot do so.
with the 2008 european football championship starting this saturday in austria and switzerland, the subject of forced prostitution is once again on the agenda. the fans of good football will surely come to their senses. however, at the same time, such sporting events provide fertile ground for mob activation and increase the risk of an increase in trafficking in human beings, who are exploited for sexual services. i agree with the speakers that the red card for forced prostitution campaign launched in march 2006 by the committee on women's rights and gender equality was a success because it openly addressed one of society's most pressing issues. i am convinced that only a good information campaign on the need to prevent trafficking in women and forced prostitution during the 2008 european football championship can open the public's eyes and contribute to exposing this terrible kind of violence against women and girls.
i also thank the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, for a report which contains two very different topics, with different processes. and since the co-decision process is applied to food hygiene, this will inevitably hamper the area of prices and conditions in transport, where we only have a consultation process. i agree with the condition that food safety requirements must be the same in the member states or not too different. but here we also have the question of imports from third countries into the european union, where these foods are full of pesticides. we have a polluted environment that has a negative impact on human health. therefore, every effort should be made to prevent the deterioration of health caused by faulty foods. we need to start investigating foodstuffs, their ingredients and raw materials of animal and plant origin for health, hygiene and biological value, as well as for identification or possible falsification. analysis of foreign substances in food must be carried out and focus on daily consumption, not just phthalates in toys, for example, which are not consumed by everyone on a daily basis. slovak producers often face criticism regarding food hygiene. i must point out that slovakia has much stricter food standards than the old 15.
in writing. - i voted for the horst schnellhardt report because it will reduce the bureaucratic burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in the food industry, especially micro-enterprises (bakeries, etc.), and will help to make entrepreneurship more attractive and create new job opportunities. the report introduces a number of amendments concerning smes focused on the production and sale of foodstuffs, operating in regional and local markets. it's not about the veterinary measures. in discussing the package of food hygiene measures, the ep was keen to ensure the highest possible level of food safety while introducing a practical and flexible control mechanism. derogations from haccp apply to smes that are able to demonstrate that there is no food safety risk and that food safety is under control. the haccp system is a hazard analysis and critical control point method. it was developed in the us in the 1960s for the national aeronautics and space agency, which needed to ensure 100% protection of all food and nutritional products, and was incorporated into european legislation in 1992. the slovak food code introduces the concept of haccp as 'good manufacturing practice'. documentation is complex and micro-business owners are discouraged by intolerable bureaucracy. i would point out that the hygiene rules in slovakia are much stricter than in the eu-15, therefore there is a need to harmonise the hygiene rules within the eu.
in writing. − slovakia, like other new eu member states, has a high proportion of rural areas. slovakia's countryside covers almost 80 percent of the country's territory and, according to statistics, more than 44 percent of the population live there. the current food situation, high food prices and the production of quality food are major challenges for europe's rural areas. it is commendable that the organic farming system is of particular interest to young farmers, which ensures that land management for rural development purposes is gaining in importance. agricultural business has its own specificities and is associated with much higher risks than in other economic sectors. many young people consider starting a business in agriculture impossible because of the high costs involved. the granting of specific advantages can help young farmers in starting up their businesses as well as in modernising their businesses. i voted in favour of the report by the rapporteur, donato tommaso veraldi, on the future of young farmers in the context of the current reform of the common agricultural policy, because i believe that by supporting young farmers we can make a significant contribution to tackling employment in europe's peripheral regions and to preventing young people leaving the countryside.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to welcome the report by mrs panayotopoulos and the commission's determination to continue the fight against poverty. the high level of poverty is probably one of the most striking contradictions of a prosperous europe. it's no coincidence that every colleague mentioned the big numbers, the millions of people who are at risk of poverty, but what's most striking is the high number of children who are born and are at risk of poverty. it is not surprising, then, that these children do not finish school, that the percentage of those who leave school before graduation is staggeringly high. it's a really big number, the hundreds of thousands of children living on the streets or in institutions. the problem is that poverty is hereditary, including social inclusion. the impact on lifetime opportunities to gain education, to participate in lifelong learning remains for people socially excluded by an unrealizable project. the year against poverty will hopefully provide a sufficient impetus to reinforce the principle of solidarity in national policies. however, the implementation of this principle will be even more difficult in view of future changes in population structure. sustainability analyses of some public expenditure and insurance systems show that in some member states these systems are financially or even socially risky, which can have a dramatic impact on the spread of poverty. the current rapid rise in oil and food prices will undoubtedly put a strain on the budgets of the lowest income groups. there are therefore more than enough reasons for the year to not only draw attention to poverty but also to create responsible specialised national bodies that could help coordinate the various policies to combat poverty and social exclusion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate you on this excellent proposal. i would like to thank you, mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, for your excellent report. i am sure we will vote unanimously on the resolution. but i wonder. this is another european year, this time against extreme poverty. for the past 20 years, the international community has celebrated the international day for the eradication of poverty on 17 october. as i look around us at the celebration on 17 october in the courtyard of the european parliament in brussels, i am with my colleague, mr méndez de vigo, who chairs the european parliament's committee on the fourth world. ladies and gentlemen, i propose that you put a date on your agendas. on 17 october, i hope that the european institutions will make a strong gesture to affirm the slogan of this day: 'where men are condemned to live in misery, human rights are violated. to unite to enforce them is a sacred duty".
in the european union, 78 million people live at risk of poverty. rising raw material, energy and food prices are adding to the risk for the most vulnerable. adequate employment significantly reduces the risk of poverty. but in many cases even those who have jobs are at risk of poverty. the amended lisbon strategy promotes equal opportunities for all as a pathway to social and intergenerational solidarity and to the creation of a society free of poverty. i therefore welcome the initiative to raise awareness of the problem of poverty and the effort to take a common and coordinated approach. the anti-poverty campaign should raise public awareness and trigger long-term efforts to combat poverty. in this respect, we can learn from the scandinavian countries, which have shown that one of the most effective ways of reducing poverty is through active labour market policies linked to decent working conditions and strong social protection.
thank you, mr harangoz, for a quality report on issues that are not yet very prominent but are the latent source of clearly greater problems. i would like to touch on two particular areas of the report. these are the development of vulnerable communities, mainly citizens in rural and peri-urban areas, and the development of underdeveloped microregions, which are fragmented according to national specificities and hardly captured by current statistics. both are neglected because they are little identified. let's define clearly which economically and socially vulnerable communities we have in the european union, analyse which and where in the eu we have underdeveloped microregions and address these problems. both are easily lost to the global successes of cohesion policy. let us not allow cohesion policy to be compared to an emental cheese that looks very compact on the outside.
the report rightly points to the link between tackling social issues and regional development, where europe must be solidary and apply cohesion policy. i am personally very active in supporting the less developed regions, especially in slovakia. maintaining a strong and attractive european countryside is crucial from an economic, but also from a cultural and ecological point of view. i would like to express my support for the call on the commission to increase the resources for tackling regional problems in the forthcoming green paper on territorial cohesion. this will require their active participation and close cooperation with ngos. in this context, let me give special praise to the social work of the churches and religious associations. i know from my own experience that their service to the poor and to the regions is highly effective, often irreplaceable. it should therefore be seen as an integral part of the european effort to help vulnerable groups and should be appropriately promoted at european level.
the issue of illegal immigrants in the eu requires transparent, clear and fair rules. given the urgency of this problem - there are currently some 8 million illegal immigrants in the eu - and its complexity, i consider this definition of a common legal framework to be essential. the directive clearly states that illegal immigrants must leave the eu. but here we must take account of the conditions under which this happens and ensure full respect for human rights, in particular personal freedom. i particularly welcome the explicit reference to the key legal principle of the best interests of the child, because children are a very sensitive group in this case. so we cannot limit the problem of illegal immigration to pragmatic forced deportation and denial of re-entry. finally, we need to take into account the wider political dimension in the context of reducing the incentives for illegal immigration into the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, the history is very instructive. during the 1990s, most of the then euro area member states were unable to meet the convergence criteria. most of these countries had problems with excessive deficits, public finances and inflation. in the reference year 1997, germany had problems in meeting the public debt criterion, so that countries that exceeded the criterion values significantly, such as belgium or italy, were eventually tolerated. some of the countries forming the euro area even adopted so-called creative accounting, i.e. operations that visually improved their economic performance. these problems have subsequently been addressed by most euro area countries, albeit with varying degrees of fluctuation, and are being addressed under the umbrella of the euro as a single and strong currency. i must point out that not all the criteria deficits have been eliminated in these countries. so if someone wants to point the finger at the candidates for the euro, they should be careful not to poke their eye out. the slovak republic has not only met the convergence criteria, but has met them well ahead of schedule. the development of slovakia's parameters has been closely monitored for a long time and has been fully transparent. the ecb's concerns about future inflationary developments can be generalized to all euro area member states, because europe's economy does not develop in a vacuum. the current worldwide price explosion proves this. i therefore welcome the positive position of the european commission and the european parliament as presented by the rapporteur, mr cas, on the adoption of the single currency by slovakia from 1 january 2009. these positions are not only a professional but also a significant political signal to other euro area candidates that their efforts can lead to a real result.
first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mr david cass, for his excellent balanced report and for his pragmatic approach in the examination of the individual amendments. slovakia's entry into the euro area is not at all accidental and is only the natural culmination of the enormous effort of the slovak republic's governments, which, especially in the period from 1998 to 2006, created a solid economic foundation through sweeping economic reforms in the areas of finance, taxation and social affairs. these reforms, together with foreign direct investment, allow slovakia to enjoy steady and high economic growth. continuity in achieving the target and responsible behaviour of the slovak government and the national bank allowed them to meet all the necessary maastricht criteria for joining the euro area without any side effects such as hidden inflation or artificial strengthening of the krona. some econ colleagues have expressed concern about the long-term sustainability of these criteria, particularly inflation. however, i am convinced that slovakia has all the prerequisites to meet these criteria in the long term, provided that it adopts a standard fiscal policy and other structural reforms. energy and food price developments are and will remain a global problem. slovakia will certainly not be a country that goes beyond the agreed framework. in conclusion, let me congratulate in particular the citizens of the slovak republic, who, by accepting these fundamental and radical reforms, have played the greatest part in achieving this positive result.
the slovak republic has undergone many difficult reforms in recent years, the impact of which on the weaker social groups has been successfully offset by the current government. and thanks to the government's responsible and conscientious approach not only to compensating for the reforms, but also to meeting the mandatory criteria and ensuring the smooth running of the overall euro changeover process by 1 january 2009, slovakia today has one of the best performing economies not only within the union, but also we are succeeding in increasing employment. all these facts suggest that even the new criterion of sustainable inflation will not be an insurmountable problem for slovakia in the future. the slovak government sincerely wishes that the introduction of the euro from january 2009 will not have any significant impact, especially on the socially weaker sections of the population, and is therefore already preparing measures aimed at protecting such people and creating a comfortable framework for them during the period in which it will be necessary to prepare for and later use the new currency. for example, the slovak government will be negotiating a price moratorium on certain basic foodstuffs in the near future, and another such step is the slovak government's attempt to reach a consensus on the euro. the government has involved regional and local government, professional circles, civil society and churches in the programme. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that cooperation and mutual respect, not unfounded and often populist criticism, are the only way to successfully move the union forward in all its aspects.
the slovak economy has been growing at an average annual rate of more than 6,5% for the past six years. last year, more than 10 percent. slovakia fulfils the criteria with sufficient margin in all indicators. the slovak authorities are aware of the state of real and nominal convergence of the slovak economy and its potential impact on future economic and inflationary developments. in their view, slovakia is consolidating in line with the stability and growth pact. according to the approved triennial budget, the primary fiscal objective is to achieve a deficit of 0,8% in 2010, which means that the fiscal objective is met. according to the agreed assumptions, the objective is to achieve a balanced budget in 2011. this means a budget surplus of 1,3% without the impact of the second pillar. the slovak government has taken measures to maintain inflation in slovakia. in june, it approved a modernisation programme with structural labour market reforms, consolidation of public finances, support for education, science and research. it should be noted that representatives of the trade, business, employers, trade unions, pensioners, towns and municipalities of slovakia and banks express support for the introduction of the euro in slovakia. the government's social partners signed a declaration committing to keep wage growth in line with labour productivity growth. this will contribute significantly to the sustainability of inflation in slovakia. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their correct approach based on numbers, facts and analysis. the slovak representatives and the slovak people want to contribute to the development of the european economy and thus to the stability and confidence of the euro.
the introduction of the euro in slovakia is another historic step in the process of european integration, as the euro represents an important symbol of the removal of barriers and the rapprochement of europeans. preparations for the introduction of the euro in slovakia began even before the slovak republic joined the european union. the previous slovak government, led by mikuláš dzurinda, had approved the strategy for the adoption of the euro back in 2003. it has implemented important reforms that have made slovakia an economically and politically successful country. in view of the increased inflation in slovenia following the introduction of the euro, the sustainability of inflation and the public finance deficit in slovakia is a matter of concern. however, i do not agree with the views of some of my colleagues on the need for additional criteria for monitoring slovakia's economic stability. slovakia fulfils all the maastricht criteria which are a condition for adopting the euro. it is too late to debate the setting of the maastricht criteria for fast-growing economies. i would rather point out the reason for the change in the central parity, which my german colleagues have presented as a negative phenomenon. the shift in central parity twice reflected the country's economic development, which was supported mainly by the growth in labour productivity. i call on the slovak government to intensify its citizen-centred campaign, in particular to inform vulnerable groups of the population. in my view, dual valuation should be mandatory not only six months before joining the euro area but at least one year after its introduction. this will allow consumers to get used to the euro price level. i believe that a good competitive business environment gives consumers better choice and that is the best antidote to price increases. i believe that slovakia will also learn from the experience of the countries that have already adopted the euro. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleague david cas for his support for the slovak republic's entry into the euro area and i believe that his name will go down in the history of the slovak republic.
thank you to reporter david cass for his work on the report. post-communist slovakia has implemented, over the last decade, under the leadership of the cabinet, mainly under the leadership of the cabinet of mikuláš dzurinda, demanding economic and social reforms that have set the economy to meet the maastricht criteria. the introduction of the euro in slovakia will bring about changes for which citizens need to be prepared and convinced that joining the euro area will be beneficial for them. it is important to build trust in the new name and to make it easier for them to orientate themselves. several entities in slovakia have voluntarily committed themselves to comply with the so-called code of ethics for the introduction of the euro. they have decided to provide their customers, partners and citizens with sufficient information and have renounced any possibility of abusing the currency conversion for their own unjust enrichment. i think that even with these steps we will be able to gain confidence in the common european project. at the same time, i believe that the european parliament will vote today for slovakia's accession to the european monetary union.
a new name is a watershed moment for society and its citizens, and like any change, it naturally brings with it anxiety about the outcome. knowing the situation in slovakia, i am sure that it will turn out well and that the fears will fade after a few months in 2009. i have two fundamental reasons for this expectation. firstly, it is common knowledge that slovakia has clearly met the maastricht macroeconomic criteria, which indicate its formal readiness to adopt the euro, and will also ensure their sustainability. but in addition, the government, parliament, the social partners and society as a whole are also preparing in a particularly honest way to deal with the practical problems that may be associated with the new currency. the commission has also proposed that the euro be used as the currency of the euro area, and that the euro be used as the currency of the euro area. i believe that from next year slovakia will be a standard and stable member of the eurozone, which can be regarded without problems as the interpretive box of the european union.
the consumer society has resulted in a huge amount of waste that plagues people's lives, especially in large european cities. although recycling and secondary use of waste materials have increased in recent years, the amount of waste in landfills in the eu is still too high. although the compromise package agreed is not ideal, i consider the text of the directive to be a politically ambitious tool in the field of waste management for future generations of the eu, which is why i supported the report by rapporteur caroline jackson. on the basis of this directive, member states will have to improve their waste management. i appreciate that the directive also includes issues relating to the disposal of hazardous waste and hazardous oils. i trust that, according to the agreed text, member states will meet all the ambitious targets, in particular by introducing by 2015 separate collection systems for paper, metal, plastic, glass, textiles, other biodegradable waste, oils and hazardous waste.
a high level of protection of human health and consumer safety is a fundamental concern in the matter of the establishment of residue limits of pharmacologically active substances in food of animal origin. veterinary medicinal products may leave residues in animals intended for production, which have already started to have negative effects not only on human health but also on animal health. i welcomed the report by mrs doyle and voted in favour of it today. a more consistent approach to the residue monitoring of all pharmacologically active substances and their risk analysis is absolutely necessary. i believe that the legal framework for setting maximum residue limits needs to be amended, supplemented and harmonised. i share the rapporteur's view that this is the way to improve the availability and proper use of veterinary medicines, the proper functioning of trade in the animal feed sector and, in particular, the best possible protection of public health.
i take this - for myself and my country, slovakia - precious moment to thank all my colleagues who voted for slovakia's entry into the euro area. i am pleased that all slovak meps were able to convince the european parliament, also thanks to the balanced report of our colleague david cass, that slovakia belongs to this successful club of the eu. it is now up to slovakia, and especially the government of the slovak republic, to continue with strict macroeconomic measures, with a restrictive fiscal policy, in order to be able to maintain the maastricht criteria. slovakia's entry into the euro area is also a major challenge for other member countries to continue their reform efforts and meet the maastricht criteria. today, on the floor of the european parliament, i would like to thank the slovak people, those who contributed to the dismantling of the iron curtain in 1989 at the risk of their lives, but also those who understood the importance of reforms, even though it was not always easy for slovak citizens to build a strong slovakia in a strong europe today.
the rapporteur of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, consulted. − the energy situation in europe, as elsewhere in the world, is forcing us to look for new effective solutions to ensure security of supply in individual member states at reasonable prices, provided that the energy market is further liberalised through greater market transparency and non-discriminatory action by all economic operators concerned. i appreciate the european commission's efforts to make progress, to create a space for clear rules and relationships between the relevant actors within the energy market, which should create a better competitive environment on the one hand and on the other hand to obtain an effective regulatory mechanism that would prevent a crisis situation through its interventions. but effort is one thing, reality is another. the energy package presented, despite much discussion and compromise proposals, still raises many questions and uncertainties. we all know that the so-called bottleneck is the commission's proposal for the ownership unbundling of production from transmission within vertically integrated companies. is this model really the most effective way to achieve more competition, less discrimination, lower prices and more investment? despite the many analyses that were supposed to confirm these advantages, there are also many counter-arguments that objectively call these advantages into question. my view is quite simple, but it's been verified by discussions with proponents and opponents of the ownership division. member states where other models exist must have a choice. eight of them came up with a proposal for a so-called third way, which i also offered as rapporteur for the electricity market in the econ committee as an alternative to accepting the ownership unbundling model. this proposal was also approved by the committee. before drawing definitive conclusions, we should ascertain whether each model under consideration is functional, ensures a continuous supply of energy, is transparent and non-discriminatory, and whether its transparency and non-discriminatory approach can be achieved by more effective regulation or not. we also need to be clear about whether the proposed solution does not infringe the right to private property. in this context, i believe that compromise proposal no 166 tabled by 40 members, which allows the application of the so-called third way model, is the optimal solution to the situation and respects the requirements of a significant number of member states.
european electricity and gas consumers have the right to universal service, that is to say, the right to supply of a precisely defined quality at reasonable, easily and clearly comparable and transparent prices. i welcome the fact that the debate on the third energy package is not missing mrs de vits' report on the draft consumer charter. energy consumers' rights are currently enshrined in various eu documents and are often not transposed into national legislation. i appreciate the rapporteur's efforts to clarify consumer rights. consumers must be able to switch suppliers freely without any obstacles. they need to understand what they're paying for. i thank the rapporteur for including in her report my amendments calling on the member states to provide financial support to consumer organisations in the field of counselling. consumer organisations are very active in addressing energy consumers, especially vulnerable groups of consumers.
statistics show that each year, more than 8,000 pedestrians and cyclists are killed on the roads, and up to 3,000 are injured. these alarming figures demonstrate that more effective and more stringent measures to reduce fatalities and injuries to pedestrians and other road users are more than necessary. i agree with the rapporteur's request that the implementation of the new regulation should take place within a shorter timeframe than that proposed by the commission. for example, the introduction of the emergency brake assist system in vehicles has a designated preparation period of up to 33 months, and the implementation of this process is actually simple. i also agree with the view that it is important to keep track of the development of technical possibilities in the field of safety in order to further increase the protection of pedestrians and in particular cyclists. last but not least, i believe that restricting cars from entering city centres and limiting the use of public transport and bicycles is an important indirect way in which each of us can contribute to pedestrian safety on the roads.
in writing. − the statistics on road accidents in the eu are alarming. it is estimated that up to 8 000 vulnerable road users, pedestrians and cyclists are killed and 300 000 injured each year. up to 80% of road accidents occur in towns and cities where the speed limit is between 40 and 60 km/h. therefore, the cause of road accidents is not only speed but also the quality of the road infrastructure and, above all, the safety of the cars. the challenges of using public transport, walking and cycling as alternatives to car use must be balanced by measures to reduce the number of accidents. there are currently no collision avoidance systems on the market that can effectively and in a timely manner identify pedestrians or other vulnerable road users. i welcome and voted in favour of the report by francesco ferrari on the regulation on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. the ambition of the european automotive industry must be to sell not only the most technically advanced, environmentally cleanest but also the safest cars. in order to ensure a high level of safety in all circumstances, the mandatory installation of active emergency braking assistance systems in all new vehicles from 2009 as laid down in the commission proposal should not replace high-level passive safety systems but rather complement them. i believe that this regulation will be beneficial for the safety of all road users.
the eu's strategic partnership with russia is an important factor in ensuring the diversity and security of energy imports into the eu. at the same time, it should be stressed that this agreement is important not only for the eu but also for russia, as up to 60% of russian oil exports go to the eu. in my view, european leaders need to tell russia that it should not use energy supplies as a tool of political pressure not only against eu member states but also against the states of the former soviet union, especially ukraine. currently, member states are negotiating bilaterally for oil and gas supplies from russia. during my visit to the state duma of the russian federation in april 2007, i became convinced that russia too has an eminent interest in negotiating energy with the eu as a whole. in conclusion, i would like to share my colleague elmar brok's concern that the eu's position as a strategic partner may be weakened following the failure of the irish referendum on the lisbon treaty, given that the eu's competences in the field of common energy policy are enshrined in the lisbon treaty itself.
the report notes that the smart vehicle cannot be fully implemented without the smart road initiative. but it certainly cannot be achieved without an intelligent driver who is trained in the rules of the road and has a reasonable understanding of technical matters, as some of my colleagues before me have already pointed out. as a doctor, however, i would add that the intelligent european driver should also be much better prepared for first aid in road accidents. it is much more necessary, not only theoretically but also through appropriate practical training and theoretical simulation of the problem, to prepare and re-train the driver to react effectively in the event of accident stress and to save more and more lives by providing quality first aid. saving lives is one of the goals of this initiative, and i wanted to talk about it briefly.
since 1968, the customs union has played a key role in maintaining and developing the single market. 40 years of the customs union has brought the eu significant achievements and benefits not only for businesses but also for the citizens of the european union. i welcome and voted in favour of the resolution tabled by arlene mccarthy on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the 40th anniversary of the customs union. the customs union faces challenges such as counterfeiting of products, increased imports of dangerous goods, the need to electronicise customs procedures, in the face of globalisation and technological progress. only cooperation between customs and market surveillance authorities at international level can prevent dangerous and counterfeit products from entering the european market and thus guarantee better consumer protection. i have seen this for myself when i visited the central customs authorities and customs administrations in prague, antwerp, washington, but also in beijing and shanghai. this jubilee gives us the opportunity to thank customs officials for their demanding and often dangerous work and to acknowledge their successes in combating dangerous products and counterfeiting and piracy.
the eu-russia summit rightly receives a lot of attention. given russia's important geopolitical position, its enduring historical and cultural links with europe, i support the building of a strong political partnership between the eu and the russian federation. this partnership should include mutual assistance on security issues, in particular in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the removal of barriers to free trade and travel. the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment. the union needs to act in a united manner in this regard. no member state that is serious about the common foreign and security policy should build its bilateral relations with russia at the expense of the legitimate interests of the member states. however, on sensitive international issues, the union and russia should agree on the principle of respect for international law and territorial integrity, for example in the case of serbia and kosovo. in conclusion, let me stress my view that the eu should support russia in building and consolidating democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights.
in writing. - we are increasingly dependent on transport nowadays. all citizens have the right to safe and sustainable mobility. today's advances in information and communication technologies make it possible for us to make and buy more modern, safer and cleaner vehicles. consumers need to have information available to enable them to make informed decisions in favour of intelligent vehicles. it is important that such vehicles are affordable. the report by rapporteur zita gurmai provides the impetus for european citizens to exploit the potential of transport safety as soon as possible, which is why i voted in favour of it. road accidents are the result of both human error and the inadequate technical condition of the vehicle. by implementing these smart technologies, we can prevent 16% of accidents. modern systems can reduce the number of fatal accidents by as much as one third. the galileo programme can also make a significant contribution to this. the eu member states also have a major responsibility in the overall deployment of the pan-european ecall in-vehicle emergency call. the ecall system should be in place by 2010, so i call on those member states that have not yet signed the memorandum of understanding on ecall to do so in 2008. statistics show that 41 600 people die on european roads every year, so we must usher in a new era in the transport sector. if we save any number of lives, we will do a lot for the citizens of europe.
i agree with those who have spoken before me that the european parliament must take a firm stand against a country where the arrogance of totalitarian power knows no bounds. it is incomprehensible and reprehensible for a totalitarian regime to draw political capital from the misery of its own citizens. dear colleagues, we must use all available means to help the victims of cyclone nargis in cooperation with the un. i call on the council to take further action and effectively prevent the junta from accessing the eu financial system. in light of the evidence of gross human rights violations in burma, it is imperative that the eu support the democratic forces in the country and call for the release of all political prisoners.
i welcomed the fact that the june european union health ministers' council also included the initiative entitled 'antibiotic awareness day'. the aim is to raise public awareness of the need to use antibiotics responsibly and when indicated. misuse is becoming a serious threat to public health. bacteria are becoming more and more resistant, and this means that the use of antibiotics in the future will be very limited. the campaign is being run by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), the european union institutions and the world health organisation. the campaign should complement national strategies, a workshop on antimicrobial resistance will be held in paris and the czech presidency will prepare a conference on this topic. the campaign logo was also introduced.
in march 2003, after the castro regime unjustly convicted and imprisoned 75 cuban dissidents, the european union imposed sanctions against cuba. more than 50 political prisoners, whose families we have supported for many years through 'adoption', are still being held in inhumane conditions in cuban prisons. we're concerned about their poor health. before their decision to lift eu sanctions against cuba, the winners of the 2005 andrei sakharov prize 'women in white' asked whether the situation of human rights and civil liberties in cuba had changed since raúl castro took office. mr president, i thank you for your personal commitment to the release of political prisoners in cuba, and i ask you, on behalf of the european parliament, to call again on the cuban president to release all cuban dissidents with immediate effect.
since we will not meet until after august 21st, when we commemorate the 40th anniversary of the occupation of czechoslovakia by the warsaw pact troops, i feel it is my duty to recall this drama. at that time, it was shown in all its nakedness that the communist regime was a crime against humanity, like any totalitarian regime. after august 1968, we witnessed in my homeland for the next 20 years many forms of communist violence and terror from this organized evil machine. those who did not give up and kept their integrity deserve our respect. let me paraphrase the words of the slovak priest anton srholc, president of the confederation of political prisoners of slovakia: we must not stop bearing witness to the fact that there are hundreds of thousands of honest people in slovakia who have contributed to the preservation of freedom and human rights. it is thanks to them that we stand once again on the side of democracy, freedom and justice.
for the third year in a row, the scissors between the long-term budgetary perspective and budgetary reality are gradually being dissolved. the member states' governments do not draw on budgetary resources with sufficient dynamism and these are then put into the commitment appropriations system. their volume has an increasing trend year on year. on the other hand, the trend in the annual increase in payments is decreasing, not only in relation to gross national income, but also in absolute terms. by accepting this approach, parliament creates a softer and less demanding environment for member state governments. this will be reflected in the lower rate of implementation of key european union policies. this situation is alarming and has been rightly pointed out by the rapporteur, jutta haug, in several contexts. i particularly note the continued relative and absolute decline in payment expenditure on competitiveness and cohesion policy, which is intended to promote economic growth and employment. such developments will not increase citizens' confidence in the european union's policies. before the 2009 election year, that's not good news.
i congratulate mrs. haug on an excellent report. the draft budget for 2009 allows, on the one hand, the consolidation of the programmes approved for the 2007 to 2013 multiannual financial framework, and, on the other hand, puts a new emphasis on addressing pressing issues and challenges. in regional policy, our interest is to improve the social and economic situation of the people of the regions lagging behind. our aim is to reduce inequalities between european regions. compared to 2008, we are seeing a reduction of almost 14% in payments under expenditure sub-chapter ib. we certainly wish to be able to meet the present and future challenges in terms of the principle of solidarity throughout the community. we must therefore ensure that the resources we need for cohesion policy are guaranteed in the future. to convince our citizens that we are using their funds responsibly, we need to ensure the effective implementation of operational programmes and major projects. the analyses and follow-up measures to be presented by the member states will play a key role in this. an evaluation of the results of cohesion policy for the period 2000 to 2006 will be important.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much, mr. president. my colleagues, my dear officer. on behalf of the group of the european people's party and mrs járóka, who unfortunately was unable to be here, i would like to make the following points. ngos and social scientists have been trying for decades to draw attention to the extremely difficult living conditions of roma in the european union, whose numbers and proportions have increased even more since the 2007 enlargement. the solution to this situation is not primarily an immigration policy, but programs to promote social inclusion. it is important to put the discrimination and social exclusion facing roma on the agenda, but it is unacceptable that the misery faced by roma in europe as a result of centuries of exclusion, marginalisation and rejection by the political elite of all times should once again be a tool of partisan politics. this is contrary to the interests of roma, non-roma and europe, and it undermines the credibility of the european parliament to a great extent if it adopts its resolutions on the basis of unverified rumours and assumptions. the situation in italy has been bad for many months, but instead of encouraging real action, the parties are creating hysteria and exploiting the roma cause for their own short-term, selfish interests, which they can easily do, since roma ngos are too weak to demand or resist. when the minister of the interior, giuliano amato, spoke of the roma emergency, my respected socialist and liberal colleagues did not object. i want to make it clear that what is happening in italy is not an ethnic issue and that the lawlessness must be addressed, by whoever is calling. thank you very much for your attention.
i just wanted to make a brief comment on the situation of the roma which is being discussed here. i come from a country, slovakia, where we have recently elevated the romani language, a codified language, to the level of a normal minority language, where there is total access to health care and full access to education. the second thing is whether roma children attend school and take advantage of all the opportunities. thanks to social benefits, this minority is developing dynamically and is one of the most dynamically developing in terms of population in slovakia. there are multi-million dollar integration programs to address the housing issue. i believe that the italian government is in a similar situation and is looking for solidarity for the poor, children and adolescents, and of course, it also wants to maintain public order, which is supposed to protect children and adolescents. of course, the questions that come up about fingerprinting, that's something that goes, i think, beyond the scope.
at the beginning of my speech, i would like to highlight the work of mrs doyle and thank her for her efforts to produce a balanced document, whose main task is to protect the health of citizens. food enzymes are contained in many products consumed daily by all sections of society, such as corn and bread. it is therefore very important to ensure control of their production. it is very important to control their health and to harmonise this control throughout the european union. gaining the trust of european union citizens in the preparation of european directives is particularly important at a time when europe is being rocked by the scandal of the so-called recycling of spoiled cheeses and defective cheeses that have entered the market. to avoid a similar situation, we must focus not only on the preparation of the directive but also on monitoring its implementation in the individual member states. given that we know that up to 80% of food enzymes are produced by four companies, i think quality control of production should not be a problem. the problem can be the production methods, and i think that this is the key issue that mrs doyle's report highlights.
i appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur to achieve greater transparency in the approval process of food additives, flavourings and enzymes and to strengthen consumer protection, especially for those who are allergic to certain substances. food additives should be continuously monitored and re-evaluated in the light of changing conditions of use and new scientific information. many of them are chemically produced and may have negative health effects if used over a long period of time. it is therefore essential that they are labelled on the product in a way that is clear and visible to the consumer. he is a consumer of the product and is exposed to the possible consequences of products which are insufficiently or incorrectly labelled. i would also like to emphasize my view that genetically modified foodstuffs, for example, should be clearly labelled in a legible way, as is the case in canada, for example, when they consume canola, or oilseed rape.
thank you, mr president. nord stream is one of the projects designed to meet the eu's energy needs. but there are many uncertainties. the environmental risks involved require the preparation of technical feasibility studies involving the eight countries concerned, without which no planning should be undertaken. the bilateral project has a broader european energy security dimension which the union cannot ignore. in line with the 2006 joint resolution on the common energy policy, the participation of the commission in the project is essential to ensure the implementation of the energy solidarity dimension within the union. it is not right that the project was prepared without the prior consent of the coastal states. the plan, which involves an environmental risk for one third of the eu member states, also has a more reasonable land-based version... (the president interrupts the speaker).
terrorism and violent insurgency have been on the rise in afghanistan. the international community cannot tolerate and give in to terrorist organizations financed by the cultivation of the drug trade. the main objective of these terrorist organizations is to sow discord among nato allies, thereby creating the impression that it is impossible to bring peace to afghanistan. they are threatening not only the security of the region, but also, in fact, the security of the world. the european security policy towards afghanistan should therefore be more dynamic, more operational, and should include concrete short- and long-term measures aimed at the reconstruction of afghan society, institutions and the rule of law, as well as support for president karzai. the european community should continue to support measures in which the country has already made progress, especially in the areas of providing basic needs and health care.
i support the aspiration of the proposal to ensure that food products, including flavouring additives, are labelled in a way that is truthful and understandable. i also fully support the objective of protecting the health of consumers, which clearly requires that products with dangerous toxicological effects be prevented from entering the market. it is also necessary to protect the public, and in particular vulnerable groups, from such negative consequences as obesity or the distortion of children's taste preferences as a result of the excessive use of certain flavouring elements. i am convinced that these proposals enhance the quality of the regulation, reinforce its internal logic and the substance of the solutions. this concerns in particular the committee's position that the established maximum levels of certain ingredients should not apply where the foodstuffs concerned do not contain any added flavourings but only herbs and spices in which these ingredients occur naturally.
it is in the interest of the whole european community to ensure the harmonisation of legislation to control the use of enzymes in the food industry. our main objective is to guarantee a high level of food safety to protect human health. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure a level playing field for all producers and thus to promote fair trade in the food additive sector. first of all, i want to express my support for the consumer protection provisions. the use of food enzymes must not mislead the consumer as to the quality, origin, freshness or nutritional value of the product. the final consumer must be informed of the physical state of the food or of the particular processing which the food has undergone. information concerning food enzymes and food additives must be properly labelled, easily legible and clearly comprehensible to the purchaser.
in writing. − food colours are added to foods and beverages to modify their appearance. however, they pose an unnecessary risk to the health of citizens. a study by the university of southampton has shown that food colours are dangerous for children's health, as they can cause hyperactivity and increase the risk of learning disabilities. i support the initiative of european producers in denmark, sweden and the united kingdom to gradually voluntarily phase out the use of food azo dyes. the protection of consumers, especially the most vulnerable, such as children, is a priority for the ep. for this reason, i welcome and support in my vote the report by the rapporteur, mrs åsa westlund, which brings a new perspective to european health policy on the prevention of disease, especially in children.
in writing. − emissions from aviation have doubled since 1990 and are continuing to rise. if the eu is serious about tackling climate change, it must become the most important global player in this field. we cannot just talk about it, but we must also take legislative action. i regard the directive which aims to integrate aviation activities into the system of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community as a positive step. the compromise proposed by rapporteur peter liese is a balanced and realistic solution between protecting the environment on the one hand and ensuring the competitiveness of the european aviation industry on the other. we must not discriminate against european airlines, especially from the new eu member states, which are trying to catch up with the general trend. the commission therefore considers that the aid granted to ryanair is compatible with the internal market. an international agreement is needed, so the eu must negotiate with the us, russia and china. we must also bear in mind that air transport is sometimes the only option for connecting the eu with remote regions. it contributes significantly to the development of tourism and must therefore not become a luxury. i believe that the ep and council's common position will contribute to clean transport and the introduction of new technologies in air transport, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
as an architect/urbanist with many years of experience in regional policy working in local and regional government, i can responsibly and with full seriousness confirm the relevance and complexity of the urban mobility issue and thank the rapporteur for his approach. many cities often fail to realise that problems in transport organisation can be avoided by careful spatial planning of the transport backbone. tourists also choose to visit european cities on the basis of the transport accessibility of cities and the transport organisation in them. traffic jams certainly do not add to the attractiveness of cities and their centres. without innovative solutions like making transport easier, using alternative means of transport such as bicycles, using cars, it's not going to happen. i believe that the area of research and development has a great untapped potential for new, safer and greener modes of transport and sustainable transport systems. everyone, the eu, cities, residents and tourists alike, must be involved in tackling transport-related problems. i consider it important to have a division of responsibilities between the eu and cities, in which the eu should play a clearly defined role.
i support the view that the introduction of the euro, its gradual enlargement, but also the application of the rules of a consistent economic policy, together with the cautious approach of the european central bank, have led to relatively stable economic developments in the countries of the european union in the period so far. it is also common ground that the dynamic growth in the number and variety of transactions on financial markets increases their opacity. this also increases the level of risks that can lead to harm not only to the groups of providers and consumers, but also to the economies of entire government departments. this underlines the need to establish a broader european union framework for financial supervision and to ensure the conditions for closer involvement of the european central bank in the supervisory system as part of a systemic solution. i agree with the rapporteur, mr schmidt, that it will be necessary to deepen cooperation between central banks and national supervisors. the objective is to maintain stability in financial markets, taking into account the increasing integration of financial systems. the same is true in financial markets today as it is in ecology. without the involvement of other major players such as the united states, russia, japan, china, india and others, it will not be possible to achieve a successful outcome in a global context.
i would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs, mrs lambert and mrs bozkurt, for their excellent and demanding work. thanks to the joint efforts of them, us and the council, including the commission, we are now finally in the presence of the long-awaited new regulation which will implement regulation 883 of 2004, which replaces the cumbersome regulation 1408. these documents together make it possible to simplify citizens' access to benefits and services, as many colleagues, including the commissioner, have said. these benefits and services, which are provided by individual member states through their social systems, have so far been very difficult to access for eligible persons in other member states. it is clear that these documents will also contribute to facilitating the movement of workers across borders and thus to the better use and functioning of the single labour market. as the shadow rapporteur for mrs lambert's second report, i would like to highlight the further application of the principle of equal treatment, non-discrimination in extending the provisions of the regulation to third country nationals. as the debate shows, i think it's not possible to assume that this legislation will solve all our problems. it doesn't solve all of our existing problems, and it doesn't solve all of our future problems. it is clear that much will need to be done and much work will need to be done for sustainability and adaptation to new challenges, including further coordination.
the internal market with its four freedoms is a fundamental achievement of the european union. the adoption of the services directive, the free movement of persons brings benefits to union citizens. on the other hand, citizens turn to us for the problems they face when they need health and social care. social security systems are specific to each member state. i am convinced that the coordination of systems, transparency, the elimination of red tape, an electronic system for exchanging information will be beneficial for all eu citizens. i thank all my colleagues for a very interesting discussion today and the rapporteurs for their hard work.
in writing. with the beijing olympics coming up, as far as i know, the human rights situation in china has not improved. on the contrary, the chinese regime is stepping up arrests to prevent possible demonstrations during the olympic games. media freedom is very important because it is independent media that provide information about the human rights situation in china without censorship. it is therefore essential that independent television stations such as ntd tv can also broadcast. this satellite television station broadcasts 24 hours a day via satellites over asia, europe, australia, and north america in chinese and english. the french company eutelsat, which mediates the satellite broadcast of ntd tv, suddenly, apparently under pressure from the chinese communist party, cut off the broadcast of this tv over asia on 16 june 2008. i appeal to you, commissioner ferrero waldner, in the hope that you will use all the means at your disposal on behalf of the commission to restore ntd tv's broadcasting in asia. i also call on the french presidency, on behalf of the council, to prevent restrictions on freedom of expression in china. i call on the chinese authorities to prove to the world that the awarding of the olympic games to beijing has improved the human rights situation in china. i believe that opening tibet to tourists, journalists and media will be a real opening that will allow uncensored information about the situation in the area.
i thank the rapporteur for dealing with a topical subject which seeks to address this sensitive issue of today's european union. the enlargement of the eu in 2004 with ten new member states and in 2007 with two more was undoubtedly a success for both the european union and the member states that joined. the european union's competitiveness and importance are enhanced precisely by the expansion of its human as well as economic potential. today i can say with confidence that despite this fact, the last 12 member states are still permanently feeling the differences between them and the old 15. we are talking about discrimination, but this is caused by a lack of economic as well as social maturity. however, i am struck by the fact that enlargement is mentioned as the reason for adopting the lisbon treaty. ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of nice is a dead, historical document, and it is not applicable to political life today. it's lost its validity as a contract of old age. we are 27 now, and that is why the treaty of lisbon should be adopted, not because of enlargement. enlargement can be made by a separate bilateral treaty between the european union and a member state.
the words 'expansion fatigue', 'crisis' and 'the need for consolidation' were heard. these are very depressing expressions and attitudes that speak more of powerlessness and elitism than of the ability to actively promote the project of a united europe. consolidation is not a problem for those who joined the union in the last two enlargements, it is mainly a problem for the old member states. so the question is: ask yourself why you need consolidation. as far as enlargement fatigue is concerned, it is we ourselves who are involved in conflicting opinions and opinions, and not those countries which are ready to meet all our requirements and conditions for membership of the union. our dealings with turkey, for example, look tragic, because we ourselves today cannot even say whether we will be willing to accept turkey into our elite circle after it meets the copenhagen criteria, so the question or all the questions that... (the president withdrew)
i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the situation in china after the earthquake and before the olympic games, because amendments calling for the release of political prisoners, in particular the sakharov prize candidate, were not put to the vote. i also want to take this opportunity to reiterate the importance of freedom of expression, which is the first prerequisite for the start of the democratization process in china. media freedom is very important because it is the independent media that provides information about the human rights situation in china without censorship. it is therefore essential that independent television stations such as ntd tv can also broadcast. this satellite television station broadcasts 24 hours a day via satellites over asia, europe, australia, and north america in chinese and english. the french company eutelsat, which mediates the satellite broadcast of ntd tv, abruptly, apparently under pressure from the chinese communist party, cut off the broadcast of this television over asia on 16 june 2008. to be successful, we must follow through on the words of the resolution. i appeal to the leadership of the european parliament to press for the resumption of this television broadcast over asia.
thank you, mr president. russia's great-power policy over many years created tension in georgia that turned into a brief but devastating war. russian forces have invaded the territory of a sovereign state in violation of international law. the process culminated in the kremlin's recognition of the independence of the two breakaway provinces. this created a new dimension in international politics. it's a dangerous situation, both from the perspective of russia's neighbors and from the perspective of the putin family, who have set a dangerous precedent for themselves. why can the international community come together? russian politics is now at a dead end, and we must seize this moment. the eu should push for the deployment of neutral international peacekeepers to replace the peacekeepers who have now lost their credibility and legitimacy. we should review our decision to grant visas to the russians, but at the same time we should finally ease the visa requirements for georgia. georgia is an integral part of our neighbourhood policy and we are therefore obliged to provide the maximum support necessary for the reconstruction of the country. thank you very much.
the incident in georgia is paradoxically taking place in the month of august, just as it did in the former czechoslovakia forty years ago, when my country was also occupied and occupied for many years by the soviet army. dear colleagues, we must not forget that russia has shown by its actions that it has not put its past in the archive. just as in 1968 it was quick to deploy tanks to achieve its political goals, so now it is using military force to destabilize countries that are trying to break free of russian influence. today it is georgia, tomorrow it may be ukraine. i believe that the eu must take an even more forceful stand against russia's position on the recognition of the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia. i am convinced that the eu's response must be to step up cooperation with georgia and especially with ukraine, not just with words but with clear and concrete actions.
like the colleagues who have spoken in today's debate, i consider the report by my colleague, mr nickolay mladenov, to be well timed and very important from the point of view of consumer protection. in the context of the increase in cross-border road transport, especially after the enlargement of the eu and the schengen enlargement, many european citizens are becoming victims of accidents abroad and often get into serious trouble due to ignorance. before travelling abroad by private motor vehicle, citizens must be provided with basic information on how to deal with a possible insurance event. it is important to contact the relevant information centres which must be established in each member state under the fourth directive on certain motor insurance matters. as part of the information package before the conclusion of an insurance contract, consumers should be provided with comprehensive information on the functioning of the system of liquidation agents and on legal expenses insurance. different systems have developed in the member states and national regulatory authorities are better placed to guarantee the highest level of consumer protection in national markets. for this reason, i agree with the rapporteur that there is no need to harmonise national legislation on sanctions at community level.
i regard the creation of a network of liquidation agents as a contribution to the 2000 motor insurance directive. their implementation is intended to speed up the settlement of motor vehicle insurance claims. i agree with the rapporteur on penalties for failure to act. subsidiarity allows national regulatory authorities to better guarantee the maximum level of consumer protection in national markets. according to the available data, more than 90% of all insurance claims have been settled out of court, and in this respect there is no need for a commission initiative to introduce compulsory legal expenses insurance throughout the european union. this would lead to an increase in the cost of compulsory motor insurance and would burden the courts with additional disputes which could be settled out of court. the voluntary nature of legal expenses insurance needs to be maintained and the awareness of citizens about this insurance product needs to be increased in the new member states.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent reports. working on legislative packages is never easy, which is why i value their coherence. i would like to emphasise again the fundamental objective of this package, namely better communication services for consumers using mobile phones, broadband internet access and cable television. i think, thanks to our reporter malcolm harbour, consumers will be better and more informed. when consumers decide to switch operators, they often do not have comparable offers available and the number portability process still takes an unreasonably long time. i therefore welcome the report by malcolm harbour, which states that operators must provide consumers with transparent and, above all, comparable prices and that switching operators and keeping an existing number will be possible within one day. although i would like everyone to never have to dial 112 for an emergency call, it should be stressed that this directive will give the emergency services access to caller location information, enabling them to provide first aid more quickly and effectively. the switchover to digital broadcasting will free up spectrum that could provide broadband internet connectivity in the farthest corners of the eu in the future. commissioner, i trust that the commission will look to make the most efficient use of these 'digital dividends' in the interests of every consumer.
this report on equality between women and men 2008 summarises the european parliament's reports already adopted, which have produced many interesting suggestions to be put into practice. i see it as a reflection of the work of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, and i would therefore like to thank my colleague, mrs garcía pérez, for drawing it up. it is essential to maximise the considerable potential of women in the labour market to meet the lisbon objectives. it is equally important to ensure that women have better access to postgraduate study and lifelong learning, as well as to new technologies and the information society, in order to be able to compete in the labour market. i know a lot of successful women who are running big businesses, but also small family businesses, creating new job opportunities. the woman entrepreneur takes on the role of manager in her business in addition to her daily role as wife and mother, and cares not only for the success of her family but also for the success of her business. the importance of this role for women in society is not always sufficiently recognised by society. women in leadership positions are forced to face many additional obstacles, related in particular to their family responsibilities. the reconciliation of family and working life is one of the main prerequisites for increasing the employment of women. it is therefore necessary to propose measures to encourage fathers to take parental leave, thereby dividing the maternity leave between both parents. today, many women realize that they are not getting promoted by some social welfare program but only by their own abilities. chancellor angela merkel is a clear example that we women have a strong place in world politics. if we start with history books, we learn a lot about the heroic deeds of men. women are only in the background. i believe it's our duty to make visible the nameless multitudes of engaged women without whom the world would not move forward.
the report begins by stating that equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union. a principle that has been in place for over 50 years. however, the second part of the report continues with 46 paragraphs of recommendations, calls or requests to respect this principle. and these are as basic recommendations as equal access to funds, to education, to health care, to pay. it's a call to fight violence against women, a call to fight trafficking in women, and many more. such reports are certainly important and i congratulate the rapporteur. on the other hand, they talk about the lack of application of the documents already adopted. they indicate a lack of control and sanctions. but they also testify to the dishonesty of politicians who outwardly declare equality between women and men but do not respect it in practice, and therefore the expectations are not what we would like.
sometimes we are not even aware that the consequences of advertising policy have far-reaching consequences for the preservation of stereotypes, which often represent an almost insurmountable barrier to desirable changes in order to achieve the stated goals, for example, the lisbon goals. i say this with the understanding that advertising as such has many positive aspects. it should be borne in mind that advertising policy, especially in the relationship between men and women, hinders the reconciliation of work and family life, since it very often suggests the image of a woman who, with play and a smile, manages all her tasks, sometimes conflicting, arising from her various social roles, most often carried out under time pressure. the problem is not just the perpetuation of long-standing stereotypes of male and female roles but their further reinforcement, as experts point out that advertising not only reinforces but also shapes expectations. one of the most striking evidences of this is the number of girls suffering from anorexia. if, on the one hand, marketing and advertising exploit or even abuse existing stereotypes, on the other hand, the european council will be unnecessarily adopting resolutions to combat stereotypes, these will lose all effectiveness. but a comprehensive european code of conduct is hardly the answer. the problem of marketing and advertising cannot be attributed to the media as such. it's a pity that the administration, in its quest to solve the problem, chooses paths that are either untraceable or do not lead to the goal.
advertising is an integral part of our lives and has an undeniable influence on public behaviour and opinion. there are points in the report by mrs svensson with which i agree. these are mainly points that point to the need to protect children and minors from negative advertising. advertising for the sale of sex services and prostitution distorts a child from an early age. unlike the rapporteur, i have a different view of how the objective pursued can be achieved. it is difficult to interfere with media freedom at european level without respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i do not think we will be able to adopt a european code of ethics in the field of marketing and advertising. our concern for the younger generation must be addressed primarily to parents and educators. i believe that the primary responsibility lies with parents and educators to teach their children to use television and new technology wisely and responsibly.
in writing. i am surprised to read the text of this resolution. first of all, i want to say that i support her in the vote, but i have a few comments: the following paragraph is inserted: since cloning procedures show a low survival rate for transferred embryos and cloned animals, ...many cloned animals die in the early stages of life.... what would the future of humanity be if humans received the same kind of amazing attention and if we stopped freezing human embryos? paragraph c. .....the mortality and morbidity rates of cloned animals are higher than those of sexually reproduced animals...loss and disorders in the advanced stage of pregnancy are likely to affect the surrogate mother's living conditions,... what would the future of humanity be if society as a whole took seriously the support for mothers in families, the way we protect surrogate mothers in animals? paragraph d. ...in view of the current level of suffering and health problems of surrogate mothers and animal clones, the european ethics commission has expressed doubts as to whether animal cloning...is ethically justified... what would the future of humanity be if this commission took into account the suffering of women who become surrogate mothers to improve their financial situation, the stress of women after repeatedly failing in artificial insemination, or strictly prohibited the use of human embryos for research purposes because it is morally unacceptable. fortunately for the animals, this resolution also showed that in some cases they are better protected than humans.
in writing. the stocks of raw materials for the production of traditional hydrocarbon fuels are constantly decreasing, so the topic of research and development of new alternative drives in the automotive industry is of the utmost relevance. the eu's 7th framework programme has allocated eur 800 million for hydrogen technology research. research shows that hydrogen is an ideal alternative to conventional fossil fuels. the use of hydrogen as a future fuel in road vehicles is a particularly environmentally friendly solution. it brings zero emissions of carbon compounds and greenhouse gases. the first prototypes of the cars have already been successfully tested in the ep. in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market while providing a high level of safety for the general public and environmental protection, it is necessary to lay down rules on the design of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles at european level. uniform eu-wide approval rules are a minimum requirement for the placing on the market of hydrogen-powered vehicles. the successful implementation of new technologies also depends on the timely establishment of an adequate network of hydrogen refuelling stations. i hope that today's debate will also improve european consumers' confidence in the use of new technologies in the automotive industry and increase the share of vehicles powered by these technologies in the european market. i am convinced that only a well-equipped eu will be able to compete successfully with the usa, japan and korea, which have already developed considerable activity in this area. in this respect, i consider this initiative to be very positive.
to stop the visa liberalisation agreement, to withdraw the so-called russian peacekeeping troops and replace them with international ones and thirdly not to continue the talks on partnership and cooperation with russia that is my view and i think that europe should bring a unified and clear position on the situation in georgia and not turn a blind eye to the gross interference of russia in the sovereignty and integrity of the neighbouring state. moscow violated international conventions when its troops crossed the border of georgia a border that it has previously recognized. russian troops not only entered the territory of the south ossetia region, but advanced deeper into the interior of the country. i strongly condemn the russian declaration of independence of abkhazia and south ossetia. we must not forget that while some celebrate independence, georgia mourns the innocent people who lost their lives and their homes in the intervention of russian troops. i am convinced that europe must exert pressure and promote the territorial integrity of georgia within the international community. the slovak republic has also respected the principle of territorial integrity in the case of kosovo and has not recognised its secession from serbia to date. in the same spirit, i do not recognize the independence of the georgian regions and south ossetia.
in writing. - i voted to pass this resolution. it is the result of cooperation on the ground by the women's committee and also of compromises being made to give the report wider support. the purpose of this administration was not to regulate all the details of life through laws, even if certain centralist features. on the other hand, i am sure that if meps can intervene in favour of and to promote the common good, we have a moral obligation to do so. we have an obligation to demand a ban on sexist images that degrade the dignity of women. requesting training and guidance for young people in relation to the media is also one aspect of this strategy. the report also mentions the protection of children, who are seriously affected by violent and sexually coloured advertising and who are given unrealistic visions. in any case, caution is in order. no european directive can change the natural character of women and men. before we ask for the elimination of gender stereotypes, we need to entrust sociologists and psychologists with a thorough analysis of the consequences for future generations. the analyses of independent experts are often not published because they conflict with political perspectives. natural law is not changed by a resolution of parliament. on the contrary, if parliament is to be respected, it should take much more account of natural law. the report on the impact of marketing and advertising on gender equality is far from good, but it does reveal some issues that the ep prefers to avoid.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. consumers in eu member states must be protected from the negative effects on their health that products cloned for food purposes may potentially cause. it is the principle of foresight applied to the right thing. parliament also underlines the many benefits of good quality agriculture, which i support. however, i am surprised by the sad fact that parliament voted against animal cloning, but supports human cloning for research purposes through experiments on human embryonic stem cells. the seventh framework programme for research is already funding such projects for the cloning of human beings. we destroy human life for research purposes. moreover, these experiments are funded by taxpayers' money even in countries where the law criminalizes cloning. european legislators seem more concerned with cloning animals for food than with protecting humans from scientific research.
i've been a midwife in africa for three years, so this problem is very personal to me. during my time at the council of europe, i was also the rapporteur for the report on maternity, which found that in developing countries, but also in europe, women are often not afforded basic protection during pregnancy. there are many conventions and declarations, whether the un or the ilo, in relation to the legal protection of women and their health, which are not respected, many times not ratified. as regards primary health care in third countries, the whole health system is very weak. only 10% of the african population has access to health services. therefore, maternal mortality is very high. in africa, there is a lack of educated professionals, doctors, aids is still the cause of maternal death. despite worldwide public outcry, female circumcision is still practiced. in asia, the motherhood problem again faces religious and caste barriers. so we need to support mixed investments that would support health care, but that would specifically support maternal and child care, because we know that infant mortality is also very high. instead of ambitious goals, i suggest caution, but also control of the means we provide. if european finance is to be used as aid, the objectives must be clear, understandable, focused on a small number of objectives, and only then, if we control them, can we make good music.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, timothy kirkhop, for the addition of display provisions to the code of conduct for computerised reservation systems regulation. the travel agent uses a display, i.e. a screen, to display prs information, so it is crucial that the travel agent receives neutral and balanced information. i believe that the use of a neutral image will increase the transparency of transport products and services offered by the carriers involved and will strengthen consumer confidence. travel agencies will be able to offer the most transparent choice of options to consumers on the basis of fair evaluation criteria, e.g. the main display will allow the evaluation of the most advantageous transport option provided by scheduled air or rail transport. i appreciate the rapporteur's efforts to ensure price transparency by referring directly to the price of the product, because the current concept of price does not cover all the elements of the price, which is often misleading for the consumer. i believe that this report will contribute to fair competition between prs systems, which will benefit in particular consumers who will get a transport product with quality services at a favourable price.
thank you, commissioner, and thank you, madam secretary, for coming to hear our views. i would like to thank the rapporteur, frédérique ries, for her report. it's a very ambitious programme, which i understand is very difficult to evaluate. in addition, we assess the achievement of ambitious targets in the very diverse environments of the 27 member states, with different health systems, but also with different environmental diversity. one of the biggest fears for the future is cancer. we have encountered many times predictions of the future that are very ominous. there are statistics showing that this disease results in a huge population decline, especially in the productive and post-productive age. in many cases, the impact of the environment on the health of the population is clearly established. equally important, and i stress this most in the report, is the awareness of the public, both of the environmental impacts on health and the emergence of serious diseases, and of the possibility for various ngos to help this work. the coin has two sides, where on the one hand the information provided by the european union, or local institutions, plays a major role, but on the other hand the public's access to this information and facts, how they react to it and how they deal with it, is also very important. prevention only becomes effective when it is understood and interpreted in a responsible way, and when these conditions are met, it is also possible to monitor the response in real numbers. it is possible to evaluate the plan in the short term, but the main consequences of the application of the instruments set out are best observed and quantified in the long term.
allow me to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ries, on her report, which has highlighted the state of play of the action plan and made a number of recommendations for the next period. i welcome the measures the european commission has put in place to improve indoor air quality. as a doctor, i consider this step to be very important. in offices, in schools, in homes, each of us spends the vast majority of our time indoors. its high pollution can lead to asthma, allergies, and even cancer. i therefore support the proposal to publish a green paper and to develop a genuine european strategy in this area. i also think it is important to focus our attention on electromagnetic radiation. technical advances may present certain health risks, whether in the form of sleep disorders, alzheimer's disease, leukemia, or others, if used improperly or excessively. the european community must therefore become more actively involved and take a stand on this new threat, and also aim for enforceability.
let me say that the european parliament's resolution on israel and palestine is not exactly timely in view of the latest developments, with israel releasing another 198 palestinian prisoners last week. this gesture demonstrates israel's willingness to proceed with the building of mutual trust in the peace process, despite the harsh criticism of israeli public opinion. the same was true of the recent prisoner exchange at the lebanese border. it is undeniably very sad that there are palestinian youths in israeli prisons. but the primary cause is that terrorist organizations exploit them, manipulate them into hatred and a willingness to kill. over the past eight years, up to 16% of the total number of suicide bombers and would-be bombers were minors, with a marked tendency to decrease in age. it is the upbringing and education of children that are key factors that can significantly influence the future development of israeli-palestinian coexistence.
i thought the joint motion for a resolution on the evaluation of sdg 5 on maternal mortality was balanced. i agree with the resolution that maternal health is the area where the least progress has been made among all the millennium development goals. as progress in this area is least likely to be achieved by 2015, particularly in sub-saharan africa and south asia, i agree that we need to take action. i was particularly concerned about the four amendments tabled on behalf of the alde and gue/ngl groups, which again force the european parliament to decide on matters which are the exclusive competence of the member states. it is a vote in favor of safe and legal abortion. unfortunately, those amendments were passed in today's vote. each eu member state has a different view of abortion, so decisions on the issue are taken in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. abortion was also defeated in the referendum on the lisbon treaty in catholic ireland, abortion is banned in poland, and there is a different view of abortion in slovakia. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the eu considers the area of respect for human rights to be the most important area, and therefore incorporates human rights clauses and specific implementation mechanisms into all new bilateral agreements signed with third countries. the political effectiveness of sanctions and their negative side effects are now a matter of dispute. we are particularly aware of this at a time when the eu is faced with a position on the conflict in the caucasus. i therefore welcome and voted in favour of the hélène flautre report, which introduces a new philosophy of sanctions and a new way of thinking about human rights. we need an effective sanctions policy to avoid the use of the so-called double standard, for example, by the strategic importance of a partner, as in the case of russia and china. we need to build on the country strategy paper and other documents of a similar nature to develop a concrete strategy on the human rights situation in the country and the situation of democracy. we must rely on objective and up-to-date information from representatives of local and non-governmental organisations. we need to support civil society and target those responsible for the conflict with, for example, asset freezes, travel bans. sanctions must not affect the poorest. i believe that sanctions policy will only be more effective when it is integrated into the eu's overall human rights strategy. sanctions will only be effective if they help to change the situation and subsequently to resolve the conflict.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. protecting maternal health is an essential prerequisite for the survival of humanity. mothers in developing countries are now exposed to pandemics without access to basic health care, to acylpyrin and a glass of drinking water. the un secretary-general has clearly emphasized that less than 10% of the budget goes to solving problems that affect 90 percent of the world's population. pneumonia, infectious diarrhea, tuberculosis, and malaria - diseases that cause huge health problems in developing countries and are treatable - use less than 1% of the budget. the ons has adopted a strategy that promotes births under qualified medical supervision. it wants to reduce the risks of motherhood, reduce child mortality and ensure access to services. however, our resolution calls, inter alia, for "access to legal and safe abortion" and deplores the lack of provision of reproductive health services. it asks the ec and the er to 'guarantee the availability, accessibility and good quality of reproductive health services and to promote access for all women to comprehensive information and services in the field of sexual and reproductive health'. it calls on the ec and the eu to intervene in this area, and that abortion is the exclusive competence of the nation states and not the eu. we cannot offer mothers in developing countries a vague, simplified, and worse, ideologically-driven vision of protecting their health.
slovakia, a member state of the union, has adopted the eu's system of values, which means that it should also respect the principles of cultural and linguistic diversity of the community. but a recent open society fund survey shows that hatred of slovak students towards the hungarian minority is growing dangerously in slovakia, with more than 63% of the public saying that hungarians should speak only slovak in public and only hungarian at home. and, shockingly, on parliament's floor, the minister of education has also fully endorsed this view. this situation is shocking, the minister's opinion is unconstitutional, it is contrary to the laws of slovakia and the principles on which democratic europe is based. since the arrival of the coalition government of robert fico, something is not right in slovakia. thanks in particular to the chairman of the ruling party, jan sloto, anti-hungarian, racist and xenophobic speeches are becoming intolerably numerous, and it is striking that neither the prime minister nor the representatives of the ruling parties are deterred, condemn this harmful and dangerous trend.
let me say with some sadness that i am reminded of the recent tragic bus accident in slovakia, which took place near the croatian town of gospić. 14 people lost their lives, others were injured on their way to a rest stop. i would like to express my condolences to the victims of this tragedy, and at the same time i would like to thank the croatian side, which by its exemplary approach has mitigated the impact of this accident and has taken an exemplary care of our citizens. once again, croatia's ability to respond and solve problems is proving that it belongs in the european union in the future.
the third political crisis in ukraine in a row was a likely reason why the russian-georgian conflict did not lead to more ambitious conclusions at the historic second eu-ukraine summit in paris in early september. i appreciate that the european union has once again declared its support for the building of civil society and pro-democratic change in ukraine. i also welcome the agreement to launch a 'visa dialogue' which should lead to visa-free travel between the two parties in the long term, and the fact that ukraine's path to eu membership remains open despite the political crisis. today, no one doubts that the orange revolution changed the course of ukraine's subsequent history. ukraine must now demonstrate stability and unity if it is to have a chance of getting a european perspective. i believe that we will only strengthen freedom at home if we defend it beyond the borders of the eu. i will therefore be attending the 11th meeting of the european parliament's delegation for ukraine, which will take place in kiev and yalta on 2-3 october 2008. i believe that the participation of representatives of the european parliament in ukraine will contribute to the calm of the situation and to political stability in ukraine.
commissioner figeľ, i look forward to your presence at today's debate, because we share stories in different areas of life. based on my own artistic experience, i can say that the focusing of the european years on a specific theme undoubtedly contributes to raising awareness and activating the public. as europe must now respond to the challenges and opportunities of globalisation by strengthening its creative and innovative capacities, i welcome the commission's decision to make 2009 the year of creativity and innovation. people, their professional, entrepreneurial and social skills are the driving force behind innovation, which is why the area of lifelong learning needs to be given special attention. i welcome the measures proposed to promote creativity and innovation capacities at all stages of lifelong learning throughout working life and beyond retirement. to achieve the 2009 innovation europe target, i believe that the package of measures must be consistent with other policies that should continue beyond the end of the year of creativity and innovation.
in writing. the quality of community legislation and its timely implementation are indispensable to the effective functioning of the internal market. the correct transposition and application of internal market directives affect competitiveness and economic and social balance in the eu. for example, the construction products directive, which we should replace with the regulation i am currently working on as epp-ed shadow rapporteur, has been transposed in such a way that ce marking is optional in 4 member states and mandatory in the others. in the manufacturing sector, this situation is causing major problems. vague provisions and incorrect implementation of secondary legislation often end up in the european court of justice. i consider the establishment of single points of contact to be a very important step, where european citizens can receive assistance with any legal and practical matters relating to their movement within the internal market. in the interests of an open and competitive internal market, more targeted and more stringent tools are needed to improve the fight against counterfeiting and piracy. i draw your attention to writing report no 67/2008 which we have prepared together with colleagues to draw attention to counterfeiting and piracy, which are increasingly a threat to the european economy, jobs and creativity. our priority must be to protect consumers, who often buy counterfeit products mistakenly thinking they are genuine, thus putting their health and safety at risk.
in writing. mountain regions allow for high-quality agricultural production, a greater diversity of agricultural products on the european market, and therefore a better coordination of rural development and structural aid is needed. sustainable, modernised and multifunctional agriculture needs to be developed in mountain regions. the use of biomass and agro-tourism will increase the income of the local population. the conservation of certain plant and animal species, the protection of traditions, and especially tourism, will help to combat climate change by protecting biodiversity and capturing co2 through permanent grasslands and forest cover. sustainable forest management will make it possible to generate energy from wood waste. ladies and gentlemen, let me stress the importance of water management in mountain regions. it is necessary for the commission to encourage local and regional authorities to develop a comprehensive solidarity between upstream and downstream areas and to promote, through appropriate financial means, the sustainable use of water resources in these regions. these regions are particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change and it is therefore necessary to promote the immediate implementation of measures to protect against natural disasters in these regions, in particular forest fires. i believe that mountain areas need new tools to protect the land from floods with an emphasis on flood prevention, and farmers and foresters could provide flood prevention measures through the direct area payments they receive under the cap.
first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for her report on the bologna process and its impact on student mobility. the introduction of harmonisation of the three-cycle structure of higher education in the countries of the european union, quality and, above all, recognition of diplomas are the fundamental objectives of this intergovernmental process. in today's vote i gave my unequivocal support to the doris pack report, in which the rapporteur highlights the importance of a partnership approach and cooperation in the design and implementation of the bologna process. this process is an example of dynamic cooperation not only between eu countries but also beyond them. i also agree that the facilitation of the mutual recognition of qualifications should be more substantial and that the bologna process should be more uniform at national level in the member states. promoting student mobility is a fundamental starting point for the creation of a european higher education area.
in writing. − the demands on the teaching profession are currently increasing in connection with the development of information and communication technologies, as the learning environment is becoming increasingly complex and diverse. i voted in favour of the report by rapporteur badia i cutchet on the commission communication 'improving the quality of teacher education'. the communication assesses the current situation in the eu in the field of education and teacher training. the report considers possible measures by eu member states. more than 27 different teacher training systems are used within the union, but the challenges faced by teachers are in principle common to all member states. teachers are required to provide quality teacher training which has a direct impact not only on pupils' knowledge level but also on the formation of their personality, especially during the first years of their schooling. at the same time, teachers are subjected to a tremendous psychological burden that drains them of the strength to educate themselves. in the past, teachers were a respected and valued profession. teaching is not an attractive profession these days. teachers, most of whom are women, do not have the corresponding level of social recognition, status and especially evaluation. for example, in my country, slovakia, the salaries of teachers are well below the average salaries in the national economy. i hope that the report will reach the attention of the member states, who will ensure that the teaching profession is adequately rewarded.
in writing. - i voted for mr ebner's report because i consider it an important signal to the ep's mountain regions in europe. i draw on personal experience, since i live in a mountainous region in northeastern slovakia under the high tatras. i've done a number of studies on the attractiveness of living in mountain regions. i thank the rapporteur for including in the report my amendments which i tabled in the committee on regional development and which were supported in the committee's vote on the opinion. mountain regions allow for high-quality agricultural production, a greater diversity of agricultural products on the european market, and therefore a better coordination of rural development and structural aid for the development of common programmes is needed. maintaining other activities such as biomass harvesting and agro-tourism that will allow for an increase in the income of the local population. sustainable, modernised and multifunctional agriculture is needed in mountain regions. sustainable forest management will make it possible to generate energy from wood waste. the conservation of certain plant and animal species, the protection of traditions, ecological activities and tourism contribute to combating climate change through the protection of biodiversity and the capture of co2 by permanent grassland and forest cover. i believe that mountain areas need new tools to protect the land from floods with an emphasis on flood prevention, and farmers and foresters could provide flood prevention measures through the direct area payments they receive under the cap.
alzheimer's disease and the care of people with it are still on the fringe of interest in the european union, as well as in my country, slovakia. experts estimate that in the next 40 years, up to four times as many people as today may develop alzheimer's disease, so early and accurate diagnosis can slow the progression of the disease. does the french presidency not intend to launch a special information campaign, or perhaps to provide new impetus for the commission to prepare programmes to co-finance the activities of civil society organisations aimed at helping people with memory problems and alzheimer's disease?
we are again discussing the schengen information system, which is the main instrument for implementing the schengen principles. it is undoubtedly a fundamental pillar of a 'borderless' europe and of the area of freedom, security and justice, and it is therefore necessary for sis ii to become operational. the sisone4all system is now fully operational, and as a transitional technical solution it has enabled the nine new member states to join the sis and, of course, become full members of the union by joining the schengen area. 21 december 2007 was a great day in the history of my country, slovakia and the eu as a whole. he was the real fall of the iron curtain. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, for the preparation of this report and for his commitment. i am convinced that without him, the schengen area would not have nine new members today. i believe that the next generation of sis can be operated just as quickly and without problems.
the proposed european parliament resolution on the commission's political strategy for 2009 can in principle be accepted as a document that properly elaborates this strategy. i would like to highlight in particular the complexity with which parliament's resolution underlines the importance of ensuring the stability of financial markets and consumer satisfaction during the current financial crisis. there is no doubt that control measures need to be designed to increase investor transparency, improve valuation standards, prudential supervision and the role of credit rating agencies. the commission must draw up a detailed plan to achieve improvements in financial services legislation, the revision of the directives on the activities of credit institutions and capital adequacy. this can improve the financial supervisory framework and increase the confidence of market participants. article 27 of the resolution correctly calls on the commission to consider what transitional measures should be taken in the area of justice and home affairs until the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. however, if the lisbon treaty does not enter into force before the 2009 elections, the challenge to the commission should be much broader. otherwise, our dear european commission will be caught off guard by the real world.
first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for his many years of work and consistent approach to the legislative package on electronic communications. i voted for his report today. the telecoms package constitutes a necessary update of the current legislation, in particular in the area of the protection of individuals' privacy and their personal data. this question was one of the main objectives of the proposal, and i supported the view that the data protection and security aspect should be considered in a wider context than the european one, since providers of communication services and internet systems are located all over the world and deal with personal data under different legal systems. i also supported the proposal to improve and strengthen consumer rights, in particular by increasing awareness and transparency about prices and conditions for the use of telecommunications services. last but not least, i welcomed the proposal for a report on facilitating and strengthening access to electronic communications for disabled citizens.
i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the political strategy for 2009, because of its overall competence. i consider it a particularly good decision to support the european parliament's measures to stabilise financial markets in the current financial crisis. however, i am convinced that this strategy does not take into account the food safety risks that will need to be addressed by concrete measures and not just by expressing regret over this fact. in this context, there is a particular urgency to focus on the exploitation of the agricultural potential in the new member states, as the current discriminatory and common agricultural policy is critically exacerbating the decline of agriculture in these new member states.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the commission's legislative programme for 2009 because amendments were adopted calling for new legislative proposals in the social field. since the social field is almost exclusively a matter for the member states, our group rejected the revision of the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund, minimum standards aimed at unfair dismissals of individual workers, protection of workers with atypical employment contracts and improvement of working conditions and reduction of accidents at work. also, issues of legal protection against discrimination differ between member states, particularly with regard to reproductive rights, the traditional family, education and religion. our group therefore considers it necessary to maintain the principle of subsidiarity in this matter, since each member state is entitled to adapt these principles in accordance with national traditions and customs. the question of turkish accession to the eu is also a sensitive issue in our political group, where a large part of the delegation is made up of german and french conservatives.
europe has a significant opportunity to influence energy prices by producing enough of its own energy on a non-oil and gas basis. but is europe going that way? in the 1980s, slovakia and hungary began joint construction of the gabčíkovo-nagymaros waterworks. later, hungary withdrew from the construction and slovakia completed the water works alone. instead of producing peak energy, the result was an international arbitration dispute, the conclusions of which the hungarian side does not comply with. in the 1990s, slovakia invested heavily in improving the safety and extending the life of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant. the safety standards have been confirmed by the international atomic energy agency. however, as part of the accession process to the european union, slovakia was forced to close two units of this power plant prematurely. the european commission is currently considering the issue of the delivery of the two separate units of the mochovce nuclear power plant. the first two blocks are now operating safely and efficiently. the european commission is taking its time to respond. the example of slovakia shows that the intention to increase its own production and thus control energy prices in europe is still very far away.
nuclear power plants and nuclear installations are among the most closely monitored from a safety point of view. the prospects for the use of nuclear energy in slovakia, the activities requiring the completion of units 3 and 4 in mochovce, and the commitment of the slovak republic to decommission the units in jaslovské bohunice in 2006 and 2008 represent serious challenges for slovakia. why, commissioner, is there political caution on the part of the commission in the case of the completion of the nuclear power plant in mochovce? does the commission have any real concerns about its security?
madam president, today is about finding ways to use alternative energy sources. my colleague rack and i participated in new zealand in july. i was intrigued by the use of geothermal energy. in my region, in slovakia, in stara ljubownia, there are geothermal resources like this, and their exploitation requires a lot of money. what is the commission's position on the use of geothermal energy sources for energy production?
rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, requested for an opinion. - thank you, mr. chairman, i don't have much time, so at least a few points. as always, i'm all for prevention, and prevention from childhood. this prevention is closely linked to the promotion of parental responsibility. the best way to prevent childhood obesity is to avoid using television, video games, and the internet as babysitters. if there are no creative activities, children and adolescents do not get enough exercise. children need to learn eating habits, both in the quality and quantity of food and in the manner of their meals. parent-child dining should be encouraged. there's nothing better than a family being able to survive at least one meal together. to achieve this, it is essential to enable reconciliation of family and working life. likewise, teaching children to cook is a good way to prevent obesity. children love to help with the cooking, and it would be good to take advantage of this.
the worsening trend of unhealthy eating and lack of physical activity in europe is alarming. i therefore appreciate the fact that we are also dealing with this issue here in the european parliament. we know that obesity is one of the factors responsible for so-called civilization diseases, such as high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, and subsequent musculoskeletal disorders. on 17 september, i hosted a working lunch here at the european parliament on the relationship between obesity and gestational diabetes. meps and assistants had the opportunity to hear from leading experts from europe, such as dr rosu corcoy pla, who chairs the working group on pregnancy diabetes, professor f. andre van assche, who was president of the european association of gynecologists and obstetricians, and professor dr per ovesen. obesity and maternal diabetes pose an increased risk of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. we must realize that this is no longer a disease of the mother, who often does not respect a healthy diet, but a responsibility for the healthy development of the future population. an obese mother has an obese child, and so it continues for us into the next generation. i would therefore like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to a written declaration which i have prepared with my colleagues on this very subject, the relationship between diabetes and obesity in pregnancy. the member states of the european union should pay more attention to the prevention and screening of diabetes in pregnancy, but also to raising public awareness of the risks and consequences of obesity.
more than half of the european population is overweight. statistics show that nearly 27 percent of men, 38 percent of women, and more than 5 million children are considered overweight. 5 to 7% of healthcare spending is directly related to obesity, and that's billions. it is precisely because of these disturbing facts that strong initiatives need to be taken at all levels to combat this phenomenon. i welcome the commission's steps towards adopting the white paper, which have clearly made nutrition, overweight and obesity a political priority for the european union, and i believe that progress in the fight against obesity can be made by coordinating the various sectoral policies at european level. let me draw attention to the problem of overweight children and young people - this age group should be one of the priorities. proper nutrition and physical activity are prerequisites for normal growth and healthy development of the child. while the primary responsibility for health education lies with parents, the responsibility for health education also lies with schools. they should become another focus of anti-obesity activities. i agree with the rapporteur that schools should be provided with a doctor, a nutritionist. i also support the ban on the sale of greasy, salty and sweetened products in school facilities, which are mainly available in vending machines. according to statistics, today's youths spend more than 5 hours a day in sedentary activities, mainly watching television and playing computer games. movement, on the other hand, increases calcium storage in the bones, develops a child's social skills, and is a major factor in combating stress. it is important to create conditions for schools to be able to allocate sufficient time during the day to physical education and to introduce children to sports, for example by building playgrounds and sports halls. these steps are essential if we are to prepare a healthy future for our younger generations. in conclusion, the prevention of obesity involves at least one healthy meal in a calm family environment, where healthy habits are primarily cultivated.
the directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare seeks to address a very pressing issue. this is a conflict between the subsidiarity of health systems and the right of the european union citizen to free movement and his basic human right, which is access to health services. if free movement is a right of every citizen living in a member state, his health moves with him. if he could not access medical services, it would be a serious impediment to his freedom of movement. the full freedom of services is hampered by differences in the level of taxes paid by the various countries to the health service and by differences in the price of services in the various countries. the fear of many politicians that medical tourism will come mainly from the east is unfounded. it's very important for the patient to be close to his relatives and not have a language barrier. the patient-doctor relationship is very specific, where part of the success of treatment depends on trust in the doctor, and in the workplace. the willingness of the patient to travel abroad for treatment depends on the severity of the disease. if it's life-saving treatment, or treatment for a serious case, then all the other barriers are not important. i prefer to deal with this issue in the european parliament rather than before the european court of justice. we, as representatives of the citizens, regret that we have a harder time deciding than the european court of justice, which has so far ruled in favour of the patient in all cases. and in conclusion, just one thing i would like to add: many people here talk about the poor and the rich: to me, as a doctor, he is a patient. and it doesn't matter if he has a ford or he's homeless.
health systems in the union are primarily the responsibility of the member states. responsibility for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care in accordance with article 152 of the treaty is fully recognised. the aim of the draft directive is to establish and ensure a transparent framework for the provision of safe, high-quality and effective cross-border healthcare in the union, with a high level of health protection and in full respect of subsidiarity. i am enthusiastic about the intention and aims of the directive. however, i would like to point out certain overcome deficiencies in the proposal. there are concerns that this type of care may put undue pressure on health insurance systems in some member states. it is necessary to define more precisely the procedures for providing and financing repeat hospitalizations, treatment of complications and injuries. we need to set a time horizon for reimbursement of costs and at the same time make it clear that the directive will not and does not want to address long-term care in facilities where the health and social systems are interconnected. the term 'benefit to the patient' should be specified. medical considerations should be taken into account in the first place, not subjective benefits. in specifying the terms 'hospital care' and 'outpatient care', it would be appropriate to define the term 'specialized outpatient care'. at the same time, the way in which foreign prescriptions are reimbursed remains a problem. ladies and gentlemen, as with the introduction of other forms of freedom of movement that we have seen, there are also some concerns today, but in my view they are overcomeable.
cross-border provision of health services was discussed intensively in the imco committee during the negotiation of the services directive. the compromise agreed was conditional on the exclusion of health services from the scope of the services directive because of their specific nature. since this is a complex problem, i welcome this discussion. before a patient can request healthcare in another eu member state, he or she must be given clear and comprehensible information, in particular on the cost of treatment, the possibility of reimbursement by his or her health insurance company and the need for prior authorisation. we need, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt rules at european level so that patients are not victims of the system but can benefit from health services anywhere in the eu.
i support effective control of energy prices. the price volatility of recent months is against the citizens of the european union and profits speculators. moreover, we are witnessing an absolutely unacceptable situation where energy prices are also dictated by food prices. we cannot accept the cynical claim that there is enough food globally, but not everyone has enough money for expensive food. the world bank experts believe that biomass energy accounts for up to 80% of the surge in food prices. in this context, i have repeatedly stressed the need to increase food stocks and regulate the use of food resources for energy purposes. this is a key issue in food price control and therefore needs much more specific attention.
in writing. − the amendment to the rules of procedure, which we adopted on 8 july 2008, introduced new rules for the approval of own-initiative reports. we had the opportunity to test this rule in practice at the second plenary session in september. however, as the debate on monday evening on several own-initiative reports showed, this change is not the happiest. only the rapporteur and the commission representative were allowed to speak at the debate on each report. the debate lost momentum as even the shadow rapporteurs were not allowed to speak. the rule that members who have contributed to the report may express their views in writing is also flawed. it remains that each member may send his written opinion only once during a plenary session. the way in which reports on own initiative are voted is also problematic. the new rule does not allow amendments to be tabled in plenary. only an amended motion for a resolution may be tabled on behalf of a political group. the imperfection of our decision was in fact touched upon in the report by mrs mikko on concentration and media pluralism in the eu. the report, which was fairly balanced, contained some points which affected specific member states. i believe the content of a report on such a sensitive subject should remain neutral. i did not intend to vote against the report, but we did not get to vote on the proposal from our epp-ed group. i call for a change in that rule.
thank you, madam president. although the parliamentary elections in belarus did not meet the osce's requirements for free and fair elections, next week's council of ministers is likely to give the green light for political dialogue. and lukashenko did not do anything special. after the georgian war, he freed three political prisoners. the eu has thus fulfilled only one of its conditions for the opening of the dialogue. it is clear that after the georgian war, the west needs every little step to counterbalance moscow's growing influence in the post-soviet space. but if even lukashenko has managed to continue the dialogue to his own taste, what kind of dialogue do we expect with moscow? brussels should initiate a dialogue on the basis of a benchmark performance system to be established in due course. otherwise, the eu will lose this dialogue. lukashenko is using this to cement his power at home and keep moscow on a leash, not for gradual political liberalization. in the meantime, the eu could lose its biggest eastern weapon, its image. we have to decide...
mr milinkievich, mr kazulin, i look forward to your presence at today's discussion of your country, belarus. you are my hope that belarus will one day be free and democratic. the unfair october elections in belarus have once again strengthened lukashenko's totalitarian regime. of the 110 seats in the lower house of parliament, the election did not produce a single seat for the opposition. political prisoners were released in august, but they could be back in prison at any time. ladies and gentlemen, by slightly improving the electoral process, lukashenko is trying to show us that the eu no longer has any reason to keep belarus isolated. while good relations with minsk would help both sides, the union must ask for more than cosmetic changes to improve democracy. the union must demand free media in belarus and the involvement of all democratic forces in the process of governing belarus.
in the past 50 years, the slovak ethnic minority of over 200,000 in hungary has been almost wiped out. in contrast, the hungarian minority in neighbouring countries, including slovakia, has a growing share. but paradoxically, it is the hungarians who have for many years created the impression in europe that their minority is oppressed. many of the current hungarian political leaders openly speak of the idea of a greater hungary, which unfortunately goes unnoticed by the european political elite. the hungarian parliament is organising a cross-border forum of hungarian deputies from the carpathian basin on its territory. representatives of ethnic hungarian political parties from slovakia and romania meet each other openly on the topic of autonomy. in modern europe, such approaches are unacceptable and dangerous.
since its inception, slovakia has sought to create equal conditions for all its citizens, and so it can be said that it could now become an example of caring for national minorities. however, this cannot be said of hungary, where the slovak minority was brutally assimilated. of all the national minorities living in slovakia, the hungarian minority enjoys a special status. in slovakia, they have a political party that's in parliament. the school system allows education in hungarian from kindergarten to university, and many of them finish university studies without knowledge of slovak. therefore, i consider it a provocation and an absurdity, not appropriate for the 21st century, by the hungarian parliament to create the carpathian basin forum, which is composed of hungarian deputies from sovereign states that are members of the european union and seek to establish autonomy.
i would like to reject very strongly the words that have been used here against the government of the slovak republic in relation to the spreading of hatred and the non-respect of the rights of national minorities in the slovak republic. colleagues, mr tőkés, in slovakia, the government has in its programme statement the respect for minority rights and consequently respects minority rights. i am very sorry that it is the hungarian members who are using the institution of one-minute speeches and attacking the government of the slovak republic, and therefore the citizens of the slovak republic, in every single sitting of the european parliament. the slovak government, madam president, respects good neighbourly relations, it wants to have good neighbourly relations, but for good bilateral relations there must be two partners. so far, only the government of the slovak republic is extending a friendly hand.
the results of a three-year study by the world health organization on health disparities among the world's population are alarming. socioeconomic conditions, not biology, are to blame for this condition. for example, a japanese girl has an average life expectancy of 83 years, compared with 42 in lesotho, africa. the chance of a woman dying in childbirth in sweden is one in 17,000, in afghanistan it's one in eight. living in the poorest parts of europe's metropolises means living an average of 28 years less than in the richer ones. the combination of bad policies, poor social conditions, low education, poor housing, and limited access to healthy food, and so on, means that most people are not as healthy as biologically possible. the who commission on social determinants of health believes that an active approach can reduce inequalities in a relatively short time.
it is quite shocking how this forum can be used for political speculation aimed at the slovak political scene. i listened carefully to the words of my hungarian colleague tőkéš and i must protest against the one-sided assessment of current events to universally denigrate the activities of the government of the slovak republic in this area. i would like to emphasise that the slovak government is currently interested in continuing to improve its minority policy, even though it meets all european standards. i want to condemn the interests that exploit particular problematic moments to point out the bad attitude of the government in general, and moreover, on the ground of the european parliament. if we seek third parties, distort the situation, we will only unnecessarily and unjustly initiate and incite artificial conflicts that disturb and complicate the life of slovak society.
for the ppe-de group. the current domestic political turmoil in ukraine has weakened its negotiating position, but it should be seen as part of the democratic process. the eu integration remains the main priority of ukraine's foreign policy. i welcome the report by my colleague, mr zbigniew zaleski, which is very stimulating and highlights the achievements made by ukraine since the orange revolution. i am convinced that if the eu had not been so strong in its push for ukraine's accession to the wto, ukraine would probably not have become a member of this important organisation in may 2008. as with the wto, ukraine needs eu support today. at the 11th meeting of the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee, held last week in kiev and crimea, i became convinced that the eu must be ready to support ukraine's efforts, both technically and financially. on the other hand, ukraine must implement the necessary reforms, especially in its services sector, and conduct ambitious negotiations with the eu.
water is life. without water, life on earth is impossible. rain is a gift from god that must be cared for responsibly. for this reason, we must not misuse god's gift. it must be fed to the land to bring new life. more than 20 billion m3 of rainwater is drained from european cities into the seas and oceans through wastewater sewers every year. this is the real cause of the drying up of the european continent, because rainwater in any form forms all the water on the continents. i appreciate the commitment of the rapporteur, richard seeber, to finding solutions to the problems of water scarcity and drought in the eu. i was expecting a little more ambitious report, though. only paragraph 48, which has been included in the report by my amendment in the regi committee, touches only marginally on the need to create rainwater irrigation. i believe that the new water paradigm, brought by slovak and czech scientists in the team of michal kravčík, will also appeal to our rapporteur and change the essence of the eu water framework directive in the future. i am aware that commissioner spidla has also expressed his support for this proposal and this programme.
when we talk about a common european approach to health, we must first of all think about unifying the level of health service provision. the european union must aim to eliminate the still considerable disparities between the old and new member states. different member states have different health policy priorities, and therefore the health sector across the european union requires long-term and strategic cooperation to reach consensus. investment is also needed in prevention programmes and in public education. prevention policies are achieving better results, and it is known that almost half of the diseases are linked to unhealthy lifestyles. i agree with mr peterle that the commission should draw up long-term plans for preventive measures to this end. this can contribute to improving the health of the european population. medical research also contributes to the prevention and better treatment of diseases. the european union is not investing enough money in, for example, cancer research. we know that it's up to five times less than, say, in the united states. this shortcoming should be addressed in the interest of all european citizens. in order to improve patient awareness, it is useful to create information and advice centres to help patients, healthcare staff and the entire healthcare sector. achieving these goals will bring the european union a step closer to achieving a common approach to health.
in writing. − the european community, and later the european union, has from the outset sought to have symbols that are easily identifiable by the public. the process of ratifying the constitutional treaty was derailed by unsuccessful referendums in france and the netherlands. the treaty of lisbon, which was the result of a compromise and replaced the text of the constitutional treaty, did not adopt the symbols under pressure from some member states. the public is used to every organization having its own logo. flags, emblems, anthems, slogans, colors and other types of symbols convey an emotional image about the values of each organization in communication to the outside world. this experience, which we have in our countries, regions, churches, parties, civil society groups, is equally valid at eu level. a flag with a circle of twelve golden stars on a blue background always fascinates me. when i come to slovakia and see it floating on buildings, i am happy that slovakia is part of the common european house. it would be difficult to find a well-known piece of music and poetry that better symbolizes the idea of european integration than the eu anthem based on ludwig van beethoven's ninth symphony. although the single currency is not yet in force in all member states, the eu is beginning to identify with the euro, especially in third countries, in the same way that the us identifies with the dollar. i think the slogan 'united in diversity' perfectly defines the essence of the european project. i agree with the use of eu symbols, which is why i voted in favour of the report by rapporteur carner gonzalez.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the richard seeber report. the report is too lengthy and some recommendations are repeated over and over again. the biggest problem is that the whole report is based on the old water paradigm and only in point 48 does it marginally touch on the new one, namely the need to irrigate the land with rainwater. other proposals and measures will not succeed in practice because they are not transparent. the report neglects the integrated approach and focuses only on water saving in the use of taps. it is highly structured, which makes it difficult to interpret clearly. this will be similar to the eu water framework directive. the directive had the ambition to promote integrated water resources management in river basins. it just slipped to the sector principle. this is evidenced by the adoption last year of another directive on floods. if something is integrated, it's dealt with as a whole, not in parts. unfortunately, the integration was not successful. so water managers are turning the water framework directive into a leap year. they deal with floods and then they deal with droughts. similarly, in slovakia under socialism, the eastern slovak lowlands were the case. we first dealt with drainage, and then in the second stage we dealt with irrigation. the eastern slovak lowlands are now like a hot plate that pushes clouds into the colder carpathians, where extreme flooding is triggered.
in writing. − at present, there are still large disparities in healthcare between the individual member states of the european union. according to eurostat, differences in life expectancy at birth between eu countries are as high as nine years for women and thirteen years for men, with infant mortality rates varying by a factor of six. i therefore warmly welcome the efforts of mr peterle, who in his report speaks of the need to reduce these inequalities. i particularly appreciate the mention of the importance of prevention, as up to 40% of diseases are linked to unhealthy lifestyles and up to a third of cancer cases could be prevented by early diagnosis. i support increasing the budget from the health ministries for disease prevention, as only 3% is allocated to it. increased awareness of the importance of prevention and healthy lifestyles will ultimately reduce healthcare costs, as it is cheaper to prevent than to treat diseases. i believe that countries need to take action to improve healthcare, and in this context the commission's white paper and the council conclusions of december 2007 provide a good basis.
in writing. − health is one of the most important values in human life, which is why i welcome the commission's health strategy entitled 'together for health: an eu strategic approach for 2008 2013'. i voted for the report by alois peterle, who based his report on three key words: cooperation, diversity and prevention. although healthcare falls within the exclusive competence of the member states under the principle of solidarity, there is nothing to prevent healthcare from acquiring a european dimension through cooperation. all member states can benefit from the successes by sharing their know-how and best practice. if they can cure a patient of cancer in one eu member state, citizens everywhere should have the same chance of being cured. there are profound differences in healthcare between and within member states. as regards cancer, the differences in survival rates between the new and old member states are such that an iron curtain can be drawn in health. significant strategic progress is needed in disease prevention and long-term preventive action plans can be a starting point. with five times less investment in cancer research in europe than in the us, it is essential to invest much more in health than before and to keep it in the policy mix at all levels.
it's often said these days that no one's trees grow to heaven. the weak and poor banks were convinced that 1% credit would bring them prosperity, but they were not told that 1% was only short-term and would later rise very quickly. the pursuit of profit at any cost has caused the collapse of the financial system. i'll leave the in-depth analysis to the financial experts. i want to guard against the unlimited freedom in the area that concerns me and that has been entrusted to me in this institution. today, in societies where men and women number in the billions, girls are being killed by the millions. free choice of a woman, along with prenatal diagnosis, has become a tool for the elimination of the female sex. today, we know that economic gains cannot grow indefinitely, and the same is true in the moral realm. freedom without limits always turns against us. care must be taken when trees reach their natural height and respect must be shown.
communist regimes in central europe became concerned about the church, which was considered an internal enemy, especially in 1978, when karol wojtyla of poland was elected pope on october 16. i take this opportunity to thank my polish colleagues for the opportunity to be part of the team organising the event to commemorate in the european parliament the 30th anniversary of the beginning of the pontificate of john paul ii and 20 years since he spoke on the european parliament's floor in strasbourg. his words, 'do not be afraid!' were the key to the courage of christians in particular, which in the revolutions of spirit that brought down totalitarian communism in central europe. mankind is once again at a crossroads. he can either make the world a flourishing garden or turn it into a ruin. i believe that the legacy of john paul ii must be given far more weight today than at any time in the past.
the fall of the iron curtain has opened up enormous opportunities for young people in the eu27, especially in the field of education. exchange visits and doctoral studies at renowned european universities remove barriers to communication, and i was therefore interested to hear the detailed information provided by the rapporteur and commissioner figeel. i remember my student years when, as a slovak, i was given the opportunity to study at the faculty of architecture at the university of budapest. i looked with envy at my fellow students who had the opportunity to practice in paris. i didn't get a visa to france that day. thank god our children don't have to deal with this kind of trouble anymore. i join all my colleagues in saying that we need to simplify the visa regime for students from third countries. i speak for students from ukraine, belarus, georgia, moldova who want to know about the life of their peers in the eu. it would send a clear signal to the countries we want to bring closer to the eu.
as one of the co-authors of the report on the strategy on the rights of the child, i am very pleased that the draft decision of the european parliament on the protection of children using the internet and other communication technologies is also being put to the european parliament. the internet is a classic example of how something that is extremely beneficial to people, on the other hand, when used by people with criminal behavior, can work against society. every day, we see the lure and exploitation of children through the internet to prostitution, pedophilia, and pornography. it is therefore the duty of society as a whole, but of course first and foremost of parents, to explain to children the rules of use, but also the abuses and risks that the internet entails. children are attracted to the computer from a very early age. often, we adults envy their technical skill, and in their childlike naiveté, they can be easily exploited. i am grateful that activities of this kind are being promoted as a priority in the european parliament and i support the acceleration of the proposed programme so that it can start to be implemented by january 2009.
congratulations to the reporter. water is good, but if it's not clean, it's filtered. the same is true of the internet. the davide filter allows access to the internet via a secure and controlled network and protects, in particular, young users from inappropriate websites. it uses the most advanced technology and is constantly updated. its efficiency is high. web sites containing pornography, pedophilia, violence, satanism, magic, and other forms of worship are blocked. at the same time, the reason for blocking them is indicated. the filter is also effective against dealers who hook up with high-priced phone numbers. davide is reaching out to anyone who wants to protect their computers from malicious websites. the code to which it refers requires that minors be guaranteed safe access to the internet. to use the filter, simply register on the website www.davide.it.
i'd like to comment on the report submitted. the report mentions such dangers as bullying, child pornography, internet rooming, bullying, the dissemination of racist content, and incitement to self-harm. i'm sure the internet is one of the greatest technological achievements of the 20th century, but on the other hand, it can deprive our children of the joy of knowing pure and sincere love and forming natural relationships. anyone who doesn't use vulgar language in online debates, anyone who doesn't flaunt their sexual accomplishments, is a total "out". but i'm not going to talk today about the alarming statistics of child abuse online. as a member of parliament who values family above all else, i want to point out that this society, thanks to the internet, can also steal children's innocence. ladies and gentlemen, i want to point out the need for greater responsibility, and this is the key word, of internet service providers, but also of parents, in the face of children's access to content that could impair their natural development.
i agree with the conclusions of the european council that the european union must work with its international partners to reform the financial system in its entirety. this matter is at least 10 years behind schedule and the people will pay for any mistakes. decisions on transparency, global regulatory standards in cross-border surveillance and crisis management need to be taken urgently. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to obtain a loan from the state. however, there must also be no disproportionate liquidity outflows from foreign branches to parent banks. i support the accelerated strengthening of the rules on the operation and supervision of credit rating agencies. a swift decision on the adaptation of the deposit guarantee rules is also needed to enhance consumer protection.
based on the experience gained in local government, i consider the principle of partnership, as does rapporteur jean marie beaupuy, to be a key element of eu cohesion policy. i voted for the report. a successful partnership requires some investment at the start of the process, but it is a saving in time, money and efficiency later on. the creation of an erasmus programme for local elected representatives would contribute to the exchange of good practice in public administration within the eu. i call on the institutions responsible, especially the european 12, which includes my country, slovakia, to seize the historic opportunity to close the gaps between regions as quickly as possible in this 2007-2013 programming period by applying the partnership principle consistently. regional politicians are well aware of the specificities of their territory and are best placed to tackle the problems of their cities and towns, which is why i call on the member states to decentralise their powers in implementing eu cohesion policy from the central to the regional level.
in writing. − if you have i visited new zealand as a member of an 11-member delegation of the european parliament from 19 to 27 july 2008. this developed and rich country with a european spirit is more than 27 000 km from slovakia. it was very stimulating to meet with students from the european institute at the university of auckland and the university of canterbury in christchurch. we discussed the european community's seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities and the possibilities for cooperation between the eu and new zealand in science and research. for this reason, in the context of the consultation procedure, i support the conclusion of a scientific and technical cooperation agreement between the european community, on the one hand, and the new zealand government, on the other, and i therefore voted in favour of the report by rapporteur angelika niebler. new zealand is one of the least polluted countries in the world, and it is rightly proud of that. new zealanders follow the motto green, clean and safe, which translates to green, clean and safe. two-thirds of the electricity comes from hydroelectric plants. the huge reserves of hot water also serve to generate electricity. nuclear power is not even being produced here. i am convinced that bilateral cooperation in the fight against climate change, the search for common practices in the field of science, research and innovation will be beneficial for both parties.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mrs evelyne gebhardt on the choice of jurisdiction, the recognition of judgments and the rules on the law applicable in matrimonial matters. i believe it is important to create a clear, complete and flexible legal framework in this sensitive area. in today's vote, i voted to introduce the option of choosing a court of jurisdiction for spousal divorce proceedings. i supported the proposal that a so-called international married couple could choose the jurisdiction of their habitual residence, or, if appropriate, the legal system of the state in which the marriage was entered into. i fully supported the view that it is important to ensure adequate access to information for both spouses, regardless of their financial situation and education. both parties should be accurately and fully informed of the consequences of their choice of court and the law applicable in the event of divorce. this is particularly true in the case of international marriages, since the laws of the member states, the methods of divorce and the conditions under which it can be obtained differ considerably.
in writing. − i voted against the regulation because i consider it irresponsible for the eu to intervene in matters which are not within its competence. and that includes family law. the council of ministers should give careful thought to whether it accepts the proposals of parliament and the commission. a small number of problem cases should not be exploited to give the eu new powers. that is not the point of european integration. in addition, the european parliament's opinion refers to the eu charter of fundamental rights. this is an unacceptable manipulation by parliament, because the eu charter of fundamental rights is not a legally binding document but a political compromise. the eu charter of fundamental rights states in article 9: 'the right to marry and the right to found a family shall be governed by the laws of the member states which shall determine the exercise of these rights.' since family law is dealt with at national level, why do we need a parallel european divorce system? this opens the door to manipulation. it is therefore not entirely clear where this regulation is going and the commission is not in a position to remove doubts. i propose that the council of ministers reject this regulation.
we're operating on the wrong premise if we're trying to put russia in the enemy's position. as has been said here many times, we have many strategic interests in common with russia. we are in a phase of globalization and we should be aware of where the real risks are for the future, for peace, for development, for existence as such. i agree. let's condemn the inadequate response in georgia and any other such. but what was to be expected? let's criticize, let's react, but let's work with russia as an equal and potential strategic partner and come up with solutions for the november summit as well. we'll help those self-interested in every way.
more than 100 million europeans of different ages, faiths and nationalities are engaged in volunteering, so social capital in the form of active volunteering plays a very important role in local democracy in multi-level partnerships. i support the declaration of 2011 as the european year of voluntary service. does the council not think that we could and should do much more in this area by 2011 than we have done so far?
i welcome the report by mr jørgensen, which aims to promote clean, energy-efficient and fuel-efficient vehicles on european roads. i am convinced that by introducing common rules at european level we will achieve a more positive impact on the environment. the public authorities play a key role in determining the criteria for public procurement in the field of road transport. i therefore support the proposal that public procurement should include not only the purchase price but also the cost of consumption, co2 emissions and information on air pollution over the life of the vehicle. i believe that clear ecological criteria can play an important role in promoting the market for clean vehicles. furthermore, i agree with the view that information on the procurement of urban public transport vehicles must be transparent and publicly accessible. intensive and open dialogue between local government, environmental organisations and citizens will certainly help to strengthen the environmental dimension in the purchase of new vehicles.
the absence of harmonisation of community administrative rules on the placing of medicinal products on the market in most member states leads to differences in practice in those states. the aim of the proposal is that all medicinal products, irrespective of the procedure by which they have been granted marketing authorisation, will be subject to the same criteria for the evaluation of the approval of the administrative processing of variations. i welcome initiatives of this kind to simplify the framework without compromising the criteria necessary for human and animal health. harmonisation is necessary mainly because of the negative public health implications, as member states apply different scientific criteria for the evaluation of modifications to medicinal products. without this legislation, the free movement of medicines is also prevented, to the detriment of the patient. the consultation itself in the preparation of the legislative framework for the directives has shown that many member states support harmonisation in this area. however, the administrative burden and logistical complications are a common cause that we need to address. it should also be underlined that optimisation of the system will also benefit patients in the long term, amongst others, as it will improve the use of the medicinal product and have a positive impact on the use of the resources of the competent authorities, thereby improving the protection of public health. however, i recommend caution in view of the hidden costs incurred by the member states and to ensure a proper timetable for implementation in practice. member states cannot be asked to amend their national legislation in order to comply with this provision, but they must be helped to ensure that a period which is too short does not impose a heavy burden on the member state.
i welcome the report by mrs grossetête, which aims to simplify and improve the system of regulatory conditions for variations in marketing authorisations for medicinal products. the original report of the amendments appears to be ineffective and unsatisfactory in the light of new scientific knowledge and technological progress. the granting of authorisations at national level varies considerably across the member states of the european union. the procedures for reviewing medicines, the length of time for introducing changes and the requirements for the documents to be submitted are different. i am convinced that the harmonisation of these elements will be very beneficial for the protection of public health. last but not least, a more efficient system will also have a positive impact on the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. i support the rapporteur in her proposed improvements. i agree that all medicinal products, regardless of the procedure by which they have been granted marketing authorisation, should be subject to the same evaluation and authorisation criteria. the new optimal regulatory system will benefit all patients, regulatory authorities and pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. the european parliament has always been concerned about consumer rights in the field of tourism and therefore, in its resolutions on new perspectives and new challenges for sustainable european tourism, it accepted the need to revise directive 94/47/ec. this directive is easily bypassed by unscrupulous agencies, so in order to achieve an optimal level of consumer protection, also in this area, our imco committee has endeavoured to adopt harmonised rules in some key aspects. these will help the consumer to make the right choices, regardless of the country of origin or the destination. timeshare, fixed-term use of immovable property and other property means a contract for more than one year whereby the consumer acquires, in return for compensation, the right to use one or more accommodation facilities for more than one period. the contract will have to contain a checklist to attract the attention of consumers and to facilitate their understanding of the right of withdrawal. i welcome the code of conduct for traders in this sector, the quality label, cross-border campaigns and the use of standardised forms. an important aspect is advertising, which should inform the consumer and not mislead him. the directive defines the legal framework for long-term holiday products. the consumer will have time to consider his decision in an environment where no one can put pressure on him. i believe that this directive will help to solve the serious problems consumers have with long-term holiday products.
the internet is a great help, but it is also a great danger, especially for children. children are far more skilled at using computers than their parents, so adults often fail to realize the huge pitfalls that children can face by spending a few hours surfing the internet. i welcome this report and have voted in favour of it. i believe the safer internet programme will help bridge the great generational gap of anxiety about the use of the internet. we need an information campaign to the children and teachers. i support the establishment of contact points in individual eu countries where illegal activities related to internet security can be reported. matti juhani saari in finland has also posted videos on the internet, including youtube, showing him firing a gun at a shooting range. ten young people were killed by this crazed gunman at a school in the finnish city of kauhajoki. colleagues, i believe that through this program we will be able to reduce the risk that young people will not have access to such videos on the internet.
thank you for your speech, mr president, and thank you, mrs grossetête, for your report on the proposal for a directive amending the conditions for marketing authorizations for medicinal products. i voted for her. it represents progress in harmonising legislation and consumer protection, reduces red tape, increases flexibility and contributes to safety and patient awareness. at the same time, it simplifies the operations and reduces the costs of medium-sized pharmaceutical companies. i appreciate commissioner verheugen's clear statement on the distribution of counterfeit medicines, generics of poor quality, imitations often with only a placebo effect and banned medicines and vaccines on the illegal black market, which are thus infiltrating european citizens. such activity is a crime. in the near future, the commission will prepare a legal act to strengthen existing legislation in this area so that no such medicinal product can be distributed and sanctions will be introduced against those who do so. the commissioner also guaranteed that effective medicines would have to be produced on the basis of recognised european standards and manufacturing processes.
rapporteur of the committee on regional development, requested for an opinion. −first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur jutte haug and the coordinators for their very sensitive approach to the needs of the people of the european union and, therefore, for accepting the recommendations of my committee on regional development. cohesion policy must remain at the heart of the eu's budgetary policy. as rapporteur for regi, when i prepared his position on the ep's report on the budget, i also wanted to contribute to the solution of a problem which, although member states are trying to solve in their development programmes, is covered by a consolidated european approach in this area. the issue is the integration of roma communities living in the european union. my intention in designing a pilot project to help tackle this problem at a pan-european level is to strengthen european awareness of tackling it from a regional development perspective. this issue is particularly acute in the new member states, where micro-enclaves of roma communities are a serious development and social problem. the project should also include the building of adequate capacities of the european institutions, without which the problem will remain a partial issue of the member states and millions of european roma citizens may be victims of uneven economic and social development and very weak integration in the long term.
a year ago, we were astonished to see the low level of spending in the 2008 budget of the european union. their share of the gross national product was 0.95%. i compared the curve of the year-over-year decline to the curve of a falling leaf. we thought it couldn't get any lower. we were wrong. the expenditure share for 2009 is 0,89% of gnp. it's not a curve anymore, it's a free fall. what if the amount of expenditure is far from in line with the political priorities and commitments of the european union? what if this widened the gap between the level of commitments and payments? the total amount of outstanding commitments today is eur 139 billion, which is more than one year of the union budget. the internal divisions of the european council's policy are clearly visible. the governments of most member states are unable to ensure that the european union's funds are fully used in the current year. that gap shall be reflected in the reduction of payment expenditure in the budget of the following year. the scissors continue to be pulled between the 2007-2013 financial framework and the actual budgets, to the detriment of citizens and regions who are not receiving the necessary funds, especially from the structural and cohesion funds. it is also a weakness of the european parliament. we are not finding an effective way in our own countries to put pressure on governments, ministries and other public authorities to make the right changes. i will support the increase in the expenditure of the european union budget proposed by the candidate jutta haug in her excellent report. but i also have a question. aren't we fighting windmills over and over again?
in the socialist political group, i am responsible for the financial transfers in the category 'other institutions'. from this standpoint, i can say that the budgeting process and the efficiency of the use of funds are moving in a positive direction. there are also reservations, for example, in the real estate policy. only a longer-term vision and planning measures will help us achieve more significant financial savings. another reservation is the use of energy performance studies of buildings. the latest study on the european parliament's carbon footprint says it's equivalent to nearly 114,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide a year. a series of measures to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 needs to be addressed. the main sources of pollution are heating and electricity in the buildings themselves and in the transport of people between home and work, as well as between the three main workplaces. before the end of the year, i expect the secretary-general of the european parliament to present an action plan, following the analyses, so that we can take action as soon as possible to save money and clean up the environment.
expenditure relating to construction or reconstruction may be audited. in the case of european social fund projects, the target group acquires know-how, new skills and knowledge, so the clearance of items depends on the subjective approach of the official. the insolvency of ngos and local authorities due to member states' bureaucratic practices often prevents beneficiaries of the european social fund from engaging in further activities under this programme. what tools does the commission have at its disposal to ensure that member states do not create excessive administrative obstacles to the reimbursement of the costs of completed projects from the european social fund?
my father, stefan kanyai, who spent more than nine incredibly terrible years in the russian gulags in the urals, karaganda and jezkaghan, often told me: "there are still living witnesses who saw and remembered stalin's genocides, the unrestrained slaughter of mass murderers. the stalin regime has torn out many pages from the great book of european history, so it is your duty to open the archives in the former soviet union and return these missing pages of history. the memory of the victims is sacred, so you must act! i am deeply moved that my name, along with those of my colleagues from the epp-ed group and those of colleagues from other political groups, appears in the title of the resolution, which reaffirms that european integration is based on a readiness to face up to the tragic history of the 20th century. may this resolution, in 2008, the 75th anniversary of the famine, be a reminder of our affection for the people of ukraine, and in particular for the survivors of the famine, as well as for the families and relatives of the victims. may this resolution be a lesson to a new generation that has not known oppression. freedom is precious and cannot be taken for granted. evil still exists and must be confronted.
for the ppe-de group. madam president, as one of the co-authors of the european parliament's resolution on the memory of the man-made famine in ukraine in 1932-1933, let me first express my thanks on behalf of the epp-ed group to all the colleagues in the european parliament who voted in favour of this resolution. under the leadership of our epp-ed group, a compromise was reached, from which the word genocide was dropped at the request of the socialist group. but after yesterday's debate, with your very emotional participation and the strong words of commissioner antonio tajani, no one can doubt what name should be given to the heinous act that has exterminated ten million people. now it is the turn of historians, on the basis of the facts, as long as the memories are still alive, to end the silence and concealment of these facts. libraries must receive books that give a true testimony to this famine in ukraine. by voting for the resolution of the famine in 1932-1933 in ukraine as a terrible crime against the ukrainian people and against humanity, we have today once again put a page into the book of european history that stalin had torn out.
last october, i issued a written declaration calling for the creation of the hungarian guards, an extreme right-wing group. unfortunately, the inaction of the hungarian authorities, but also our european inattention, has borne fruit after a year. fascism is being exported to our slovak territory. we cannot stand by and watch the provocations that have occurred over the past two weeks. in the slovak city of kraljska chlmica, on november 8, 28 members of a hungarian organization marched in replicas of fascist uniforms and laid a wreath to the victims of the wars with the provocative inscription i believe in the rebirth of hungary. i am appalled that the action of the slovak authorities has gone unnoticed in europe. how is it possible that, at a time when europe is commemorating the 70th anniversary of kristallnacht, a member state can tolerate the existence on its territory of organisations such as the 'nilashists', the hungarian guard, jobbik, the 64 counties movement? we are not concerned that the millions of victims of the second world war are being disrespected and that fascists can march through the cities of a member state.
on the day when we commemorate the 19th anniversary of the velvet revolution in the former czechoslovakia, let me express my concern about the policy of the present slovak government, especially in the economic field, which has many similarities with the pre-november 1989 situation. the attempts to fully political control the private sector and regulatory intervention by the state to the extent that this government does so are unacceptable in a healthy market system. with the amendments to the price laws and the criminal code, it opened the way to new price regulation in connection with the euro changeover and to the punishment of small retailers and service providers with prison sentences of up to three years. in addition to these measures in relation to the rise in energy prices, it comes with a series of populist statements and threats, with the aim of expropriating some private companies in the energy sector and proposing tough, time-limited and comprehensive regulatory measures against private entities in the so-called general economic interest. these measures will, under the pretext of addressing the financial crisis and economic recession, prevent further necessary liberalisation, distort the market environment and discourage potential investors.
mr. president, i have to go. slovak-hungarian relations must not be allowed to develop according to the intentions of extremist forces. we strongly condemn those who are spoiling the relations between our two peoples, because we know the perpetrators. in slovakia, the ruling party, the slovak national party, is stoking tensions with hate speech against minorities, ethnically humiliating outbursts, and disparagement of hungarians. but in hungary, these attacks are not overreported by government forces, but by extremist groups outside parliament. that's a key difference. both of these manifestations must be condemned. one of the reasons for the deterioration of relations between the two peoples is that the pes has turned a blind eye to the coalition policy of the smer, giving a horse to the extreme slovak national party, which pursues an explicitly anti-minority policy. therefore, it was not the right decision of the pes when it took back the smer, which provides a free space for extremist anti-hungarian manifestations. unfortunately, the government coalition in poznań does not give a chance to improve slovak-hungarian relations. thank you, sir.
according to a survey by the sociological institute of the slovak academy of sciences, slovak citizens of hungarian nationality are proud to be citizens of the slovak republic. over 70% of people agree. this is the highest percentage in the history of the slovak republic. this result speaks volumes against the statements of some politicians who are trying to mislead europe that the hungarian minority in slovakia is discriminated against. on the european parliament's stage, instead of sitting down to negotiate, some colleagues have been demonstrating for two years a way of communicating that is further radicalizing the domestic political scene. i would like to call on those who care about the friendly coexistence of hungary and slovakia to support the efforts of the two prime ministers who met on saturday to coordinate the fight against extremism, so that both countries move towards good neighbourly relations. i appreciate that the day after the talks the hungarian prime minister has taken a measure that leads to changes in the legislation against extremism. this will be the best weapon against those who today threaten democracy in this region with impunity.
mr president of the eurogroup, mr commissioner, allow me to start by thanking both rapporteurs for their well-balanced report. in the context of this report, i shall rather respond to the current problems of the euro area. despite a decade of positive aspects of its functioning, the euro area faces new challenges in dealing with the financial crisis and subsequent economic recession. my contribution is to point out some of the non-systemic regulatory interventions of some member state governments in the market environment under the pretext of addressing this new situation. i am also astonished to note that governments are often encouraged to take unhealthy steps in the financial sector of the member states by statements made by some european union officials, who often deal only with the external manifestations of the situation. this includes, for example, compliance with the terms of the stability and growth pact, where some governments have already indicated that they are unlikely to maintain the planned public deficit, citing the incentives of the european union. the takeover of troubled financial institutions by the governments of some member states sets a dangerous precedent for the expropriation of private companies in any sector that are unwilling to adapt to non-systemic regulatory and discriminatory interventions, for example to keep inflation down. large financial interventions in some sectors of the economy, such as the automotive industry, raise questions as to whether such interventions do not distort the market too much and discriminate against other sectors as well. without clear and consistent coordination and clear rules at the level of the european union and the euro area, we will have a hard time managing these very serious processes. in this context, i would like to call on the representatives of the european commission and the european central bank and other relevant institutions of the european union to exercise prudence and coordination in finding optimal solutions at this difficult time, when in fact all of europe is already facing an economic recession. while excessive regulation and government intervention in the free market may put a stop to further economic decline in the european union for a while in the short term, they will certainly not provide much of the expected development boost in the medium term.
in the context of the financial crisis, europeans have learned in recent weeks that euro area member states are better equipped to cope with major shocks. people in my country, slovakia, who will join the euro area on 1 january, can see this too. financial investors and speculators in the foreign exchange markets already consider us part of the euro area. with our currency, when we have a fixed exchange rate, they don't have to speculate anymore. meanwhile, the currencies of our neighbors are falling. speculators see them as a risk they do not want to take because of the financial crisis in the financial markets. some currencies have fallen to multi-year lows. adopting the euro for small and open economies protects businesses and citizens from exchange rate fluctuations. even the people of the country with the highest employment rate in the world - denmark, which has long been among the most competitive countries with the highest quality of life in the world - have found that if they were in the euro area today, they would have more favourable interest rates and would be better able to cope with the world's current problems. this is also true of sweden, of course, which we talked about today. perhaps now is the right time for them to reconsider joining the euro. today, a criticism came from a colleague from my country that the slovak government is preparing measures to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework. i would also like to draw his attention to the european parliament's recent resolution asking the commission to propose measures to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework throughout the european union. there's no other way. that is why the majority of meps from the various political groups voted in favour of this path. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on their excellent report.
the euro will also be the best investment incentive for a foreign investor in the central european region, so in connection with the introduction of the euro in slovakia from 1 january 2009, it will be up to the government of robert fico how it uses this opportunity. the sustainability of inflation and the public finance deficit will be closely monitored in slovakia, therefore the current slovak government must continue the reforms of the previous government of mikuláš dzurinda. otherwise, slovakia may have difficulty maintaining inflation after joining the euro area. i trust that the slovak government will take to heart the recommendations of the european parliament's rapporteurs and will not put the country into debt for the future. it should not resort to pension reform in an attempt to raise private savers' funds to improve the short-term public deficit, it will not adopt laws against market rules and it will contribute to improving the business environment.
the reporter. - the gender pay gap is not a new problem. for over 50 years, there has been an article in the treaty of rome which prohibits discrimination in pay between men and women, but since 1975 we have had directive 117 which directs member states to apply the principle of equal pay for equal work. of course, not all pay differences are the result of discrimination. however, under the law of large numbers, the persistent differences in gross hourly wages are not justifiable. between 1995 and 2006, according to eurostat, the gap in hourly earnings fell from 17% to 15%, with women now making up the majority of university graduates. the trend is downward, but not straight. in fact, according to a 2007 study by the dublin foundation, these differences have increased in four european union countries. if the wage gaps were to narrow at the current rate and not widen from time to time, they might even out after more than another seventy years. we can agree that the existing legislation in this area is probably not very effective. the reasons for the existence of the pay differentials are different. they are both systemic and individual in nature. sectoral, vertical and horizontal segregation, occupational classification, work-life balance conditions and stereotypes also play a significant role in perpetuating wage differences, which then transform into pension differences and ultimately result in what we call the feminine face of poverty. the differences in remuneration also have an individual dimension. according to the commission's analysis, these increases with age, length of employment and education. moreover, statistics show that the differences are minimal among young people. they only appear after the birth of the first child and the return of the women from maternity leave. in relation to the demographic crisis we are facing, this problem, in addition to being a serious factor of economic competition, opens up a deep moral problem which cannot be ignored either. the question now is what the european parliament can do to address this issue. on the one hand, there is a persistent problem, on the other, legislation that is not very effective. of course, we must bear in mind that the reasons for the differences go far beyond the legislative framework. however, the european parliament has only one means of doing so - legislation. it is therefore up to each of us to send a signal that we want better and more effective legislation to ensure fairer conditions in the labour market.
for the ppe-de group. i would like to congratulate mrs bauer on the text proposed. as mrs bauer said, the subject we're discussing is as old as the treaty of rome. little has changed in 50 years. the issue of equal pay for equal work for women and men appears with remarkable regularity, especially during election periods. when the committee on women's rights and gender equality proposes sanctions for undertakings which do not respect the fundamental principle of remuneration, it objects to the principle of subsidiarity as if it justified its inequality. i attended a ministerial conference in lille last week. i appreciated the french presidency's efforts to speak on this subject, but the constructive response to the solution by the member states was minimal. statistics show that the gender pay gap is most pronounced after the birth of the first child. national and european policies for reconciling family responsibilities and professional ambitions should not allow for new distinctions between employees with family responsibilities and single or childless workers who do not have such responsibilities. this is primarily a question of the model of society we are looking for. i propose we form a coalition with the industrial companies. until their ceos are our first partners in establishing equal pay, our reports will remain on paper.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, mr president, i am delighted that this women's debate is under your leadership. i appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur, edith bauer, to find a balanced approach to formulating recommendations for the commission and to improving the eu legal framework, especially its effective enforcement. as a result of differing transposition, implementation and interpretation at national level, the directive, which lays down the principle of equal pay for men and women, has not eliminated the differences in pay between men and women, which are mainly related to the level of occupational segregation. i appreciate that the rapporteur has stressed in her report that motherhood cannot be a disadvantage for women who decide to interrupt their professional careers to care for a child. parents should receive support in each member state at the level of their net earnings before taking maternity leave for at least one year after the birth of the child and such adjustments should also be reflected in the pay system, which takes account of years of work in determining remuneration. motherhood must be preferred, not disadvantaged. equally important is education, which can contribute to the elimination of gender stereotypes and to the improvement of the remuneration of low-paid positions and jobs held mainly by women. member states must carry out a thorough information campaign aimed at raising awareness among employers and employees of existing or potential pay gaps in the eu labour market. they must also inform them in advance of the necessary measures taken to ensure that employers are sanctioned for breaches of the principle of equal pay for work of equal value. i hope that, thanks to the recommendations of the european parliament in this report, on which i congratulate rapporteur edith bauer, the european commission, in cooperation with the european parliament and the member states, will draw up legislation to ensure equal pay for men and women.
the reporter. - i would like to thank my colleagues for a very interesting discussion. let me make a few remarks. first, legislation alone will not solve this problem. as has been said, there are a number of reasons for legislation and, of course, some economic issues cannot be dealt with by legislation. i also agree that we should make better use of the existing legislation, there is no doubt about that. however, it appears that the long history of legislation also suggests that legislation as it stands is probably less effective. we have no other option in our hands than the legislature. this means that our role is probably to help the existing legislation to help address this longstanding problem so that the labour market is a fairer space. one final note. many colleagues stressed that it was unacceptable for such differences to persist in terms of equal rights. but i would like to highlight another aspect of this problem, and that is the conditions of competition, because equal pay for equal work is enshrined in the treaty of rome as a condition of pure competition. i think that is a response to some colleagues who have pointed out that the labour market has different conditions.
in writing. the subprime crisis has shown us that the level of financial literacy among eu citizens is low. consumers are not sufficiently informed about the risks of insolvency and over-indebtedness. information about financial products by financial institutions, especially in advertising, is unclear and sometimes confusing. they do not provide consumers with sufficient information before contracts are concluded. consumer information on finance and lending needs to start in schools, which should introduce them to the products of the banking sector as future consumers. particular emphasis should be placed on programmes for young people, pensioners and vulnerable groups. i believe that the commission must create a budget line for financial education programmes at eu level, in which all actors, such as the state, ngos, consumer organisations and financial institutions, can participate. i would particularly stress the role of consumer organisations at community and national level, as they are best placed to know the specific needs of target groups in the field of educational programmes. many member states do not allocate adequate funds in their budgets to consumer protection policy and do not pay attention to or provide financial support for the activities of consumer organisations. few consumers can afford the services of personal financial advisers, so i believe that it is professionals trained through eu training programmes who could provide independent advice to consumers within consumer organisations.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on the internal market and consumer protection shall give priority to improving the position of european consumers in the internal market. it constantly calls on the commission and the member states to examine what consumers think about the internal market and, above all, what they need. consumer confidence is a prerequisite for an efficient and well-functioning internal market. recognising the advantages of the internal market scoreboard, which has been in use since 1997, the committee invited the commission to submit a proposal for a consumer markets scoreboard as a tool for assessing the market from both a consumer and a consumer perspective. complaints, price levels, satisfaction, connectivity and security are the five main indicators used in the scoreboard. the committee is aware that, as this is the first consumer markets scoreboard ever, some of these indicators will need to be replaced in the future. the indicator concerning price levels is particularly questionable. i agree with the rapporteur, anne hedh, that the table should be properly promoted in the media and placed on relevant websites. i prefer that the commission should support the information campaigns carried out by consumer associations. based on their experience in consumer policy, they can use the most effective way of bringing the table closer to the general consumer public. i am convinced that the table will become an important tool for the future development of consumer policy only if it wins the interest of consumers.
the commission's proposals for the cap health check were formulated in very different circumstances to those in which we find ourselves today. today, more attention needs to be given to mitigating the growing volatility of agricultural markets, to moving closer to world prices, to highlighting the irreplaceable role of agriculture in society, to strengthening the systemic aspect of the cap and, above all, to making better use of the potential of discriminated agriculture in the new member states. the amendments tabled by the agri committee, unfortunately, only partially correct the commission's inadequate response to these acute needs today. for example, the commission has pushed for the application of progressive modulation as an effort to show eu citizens its ability to eliminate high farm support. this is in complete contradiction to the objective need for concentration of production factors. what is completely absurd, however, is the unwillingness to accept proposals to see such farms not as a landlord's farm but as a rational and forward-looking association of small independent non-competitive landowners. therefore, one shareholder should be accepted as one farmer. i would therefore ask mr barnier, president-in-office of the council, to give the council the opportunity to discuss the proposals dealing with this problem.
the financial crisis also provides european consumers with an excellent opportunity to test their financial literacy. they've learned the hard way that to understand personal finance, to appreciate savings, to use insurance products, but also to understand simple bank statements and receipts, requires knowing basic financial terminology and using it correctly to manage your finances. i therefore regard the report by rapporteur iota as another important contribution to consumer protection by the ep and i voted in favour of it. i believe that consumer education should start in primary schools. this mainly financial issue should be embedded in the curricula of both primary and secondary schools by the member states. the website of dolceta and european daily needs to be better promoted. i appreciate the activities of consumer organisations which are aimed at educating not only pupils but also teachers. they enthusiastically organise various competitions involving a large number of young consumers. under my auspices, the association of consumer entities of slovakia organizes the annual consumer education competition for life. the competition has been very well received and the winners have been given a visit to the ep.
i supported the report because the prevalence of overweight and obesity in the european union has increased rapidly over the last two decades, with almost 22 million children overweight and this figure rising by up to 400 000 a year. more than 90% of childhood obesity cases are caused by poor diet and lack of exercise. such children suffer from severe nutritional and joint disorders, reduced immunity, and more frequent illnesses. following the adoption of the white paper on a strategy to tackle health problems related to nutrition, overweight and obesity in europe, the proposed regulation is a good sign for the fight against childhood obesity. i consider the project to increase the distribution of fruit and vegetables to european schools to be necessary. we should think more about children in pre-schools and more than the distribution itself, the counselling and the formation of good and balanced eating habits would contribute to the healthy development of the population.
in writing. − at present, the eu fruit and vegetable market is driven by demand. the introduction of the school scheme will encourage the consumption of fruit and vegetables in the eu and will mean higher demand, which will on the one hand support public health and on the other hand benefit european fruit and vegetable growers. a high intake of fruit and vegetables reduces the risk of a large number of diseases and prevents overweight and childhood obesity, so health is the most important reason for starting a school fruit promotion programme. eating habits are formed in childhood, so in my opinion it is not enough to start in schools but also in preschools. however, the eur 90 million the commission proposes to allocate from the community budget will only provide one piece of fruit per week, which is not enough to change eating habits or to achieve a public health effect. i consider the budget proposed by the ep to be a realistic one, at eur 500 million. this would provide one portion of fruit per pupil per day and at the same time the programme would not only be for school children aged 6-10 years but also for younger children in pre-school facilities. i believe that spending on the school fruit scheme in the eu will bring savings in health expenditure in member states' budgets, which is why i voted in favour of the report by my colleague niels busk.
as the slovak representative, i highly value slovakia's entry into the euro area. there is clear evidence that the forecasts and visions of seasoned economists often fail to come true. sixteen years ago, european visionaries and economists rejected the idea of an independent and viable slovak republic. slovakia is currently the leading economy in the new twelve. i recommend that the european commission, in setting its priorities, focus directly on the citizen and his needs, rather than on economically fruitless visions. i am referring to health and good social conditions for a decent life. in times of economic stress and social pressure on people, their health cannot be forgotten. the free movement of persons in the european union is not covered by access to healthcare, especially prevention. in addition, it is necessary to ensure the effective implementation of cross-border patient care. without a healthy citizen, there can be no healthy union.
despite reports of 'change' in cuba, the facts show that cuba is still not a free and democratic country. the reason for imposing political and diplomatic sanctions on cuba has not yet disappeared, as 55 of the original 75 dissidents remain in prison. in my view, the european union's political decision to lift sanctions against cuba should have been preceded by a transparent assessment of the development of the situation, particularly in the area of human rights and civil liberties of the cuban people. what has the council done or will it do to secure the release of all political prisoners in cuban prisons?
the threshold for mutual assistance to a member state of the european union which is not a member of the euro area and is in balance of payments difficulties or is threatened with serious difficulties as a result of an overall imbalance in its balance of payments is currently eur 12 billion. the examples of denmark and hungary show that the impact of the financial crisis on some countries is such that this limit would be insufficient in the event of a crisis in larger countries. i would therefore like to stress that i do not see either the enlargement of the european union or the increase in the number of non-euro area countries as the primary reason for raising this limit, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. it must be borne in mind that the financial problems in some member states are primarily a reflection of inconsistent economic and social policies. these problems are further compounded and deepened by the financial crisis, thus creating pressure to increase aid. hungary is a typical example. i support raising the medium-term aid ceiling to eur 25 billion. however, i also support the view of the european parliament that there is no need to provide for a specific procedure to allow the commission to revise this threshold outside the normal decision-making procedures. i consider that this approach maintains a higher degree of prudence in the aid scheme, without excluding its sufficient capacity to act. i mention this because hungary is a textbook example of a country where the decisive political forces have long been unable to agree on recovery and reform measures. the adoption and implementation of these measures could ultimately also mean less impact of the financial crisis in the country and less need for financial assistance from the european union. on the other hand, however, i have to agree with hungary that the new financial market rules must not allow for disproportionate liquidity outflows from subsidiary banks to parent banks and that they must maintain a sufficient level of supervision of the national central banks. it is true that the quick give twice, but it is also true that the quick take not always on time and return everything. clear aid rules, backed up by a system of temporary and material recovery measures, therefore have an indispensable place in this system.
i welcome the discussion of these issues and i think it's important right now when we have to simultaneously address the financial and economic crisis. demographic trends show that an ageing population is occurring, on the one hand, through improved health care, and on the other, through reduced birth rates. it is therefore necessary to prepare for this reality and to secure the corresponding areas. in the social field, pension provision will be a rather difficult problem. in health care, we have to think about providing treatment for diseases that are associated with old age. we know, for example, that up to two-thirds of cancer cases are linked to people over the age of 60. the sustainability of the social system will require an increase, but also an improvement and adaptation of working conditions for older people. these are mainly women over 55 and men aged 55 to 64. it is possible to supplement the population decline with immigration of young people from third countries, but above all we should try to create the conditions for the stabilisation of the young educated generation that is leaving us today for the usa. in view of the deterioration of reproductive health in young women, assisted reproduction should be encouraged. for many young families, it is financially impossible to pay for it. it seems to me that we may not be able to achieve the lisbon strategy. let us at least try to revive the idea of a european alliance for the family, whether it be through tax incentives or improved facilities for pre-school children. maternity leave should be covered by full pay and not by a living wage.
the changed lifestyle of the younger generation is such that everyone wants to travel for many years after studying, then building a career, then young people are over 30 including a young lady and usually bring one offspring into the world. the family is seen as a negative burden today, and young men, on the other hand, are unable to promise a woman marriage and security. there's still a high rate of abortion, a high proportion of women using hormonal contraception, so the number of women who are actually physiologically capable of conceiving a child is very small. the fertility index in european countries ranges from 1.1 to 1.3. only france, which gives long-term family support, has an index that approaches 2. the recent european congress on the family at the university of rosenberg ...
i am glad that a few days before december 1, which is recognized as aids day, we addressed this global problem. the number of people infected with hiv is increasing. every day, about 14,000 people are infected, 2,000 of them children under 15. in addition to traditional outbreaks in africa and east asia, infections have increased in eastern europe and central asia. in 2006, the number of infected people in these regions rose to 1.7 million. the largest increases were in russia and ukraine, where up to 270,000 people became infected with hiv. hiv transmission in these areas is mainly due to drug use and the use of non-sterile syringes. in the case of ukraine, these figures are all the more alarming, as it is an immediate neighbour of the european union. the failure to tackle hiv despite prevention programmes around the world should lead to a reassessment and intensification of efforts in prevention and the development of effective medicines.
the french have proved during their presidency of the union that they are the rightful leaders, the driving force behind the union, even though the second half of the year is not the most ideal in terms of timing. i have been a member of the european parliament for four and a half years. i can say without any doubt that france has had the most active approach to solving the problems of all the 27 member states of the union. the historic change brought about by the election of a charismatic and very active president, mr sarkozy, is undeniably positive. his abilities were also demonstrated in the immediate response to the russia-georgia problem. the financial crisis also occurred during this period, and they reacted swiftly by proclaiming the need for a systemic solution and a reassessment of the union's control and financial mechanisms, also from the perspective of the global world. it was during the french presidency that the european union gained a positive reputation as an active player in world politics, when the g8 and g20 were convened at the initiative of the french president and president barroso. i hope that the forthcoming european council will be a success and a common approach to all the european institutions.
mr president, distinguished members of parliament and guests. i welcome the initiative of the european union institutions, which have given impetus to the global response to the financial crisis. however, the economic response to the financial crisis in the form of a plan to restore growth and jobs in the european union seems to me to be rather a hasty improvisation. the plan idealises the situation and forgets that the european union is a collection of nation states, each with different needs, priorities and solutions to economic problems and economic development. the plan underestimated the coordinated development of the energy infrastructure as a whole and not only of green energy, the coordinated development of the road and rail infrastructure as conditions for the efficient deployment of investment, but also the necessity to address the financing of the agro-sector. the world is facing a financial crisis followed by an energy crisis and a food crisis.
i think that the two-year economic recovery plan can be a good coordinated response of the european union to the economic crisis, if it is reasonably implemented, implemented. the proposed volume of financing to support the union economy should create a sufficient financial framework to stimulate the economies of individual member states to new development impulses. the eur 30 billion, to be shared equally between the european union budget and the european investment bank, must be well targeted to develop a knowledge-based economy, a low-carbon economy and energy efficiency programmes with a medium- and long-term perspective. as for tax incentives, i think these measures should remain in the hands of the individual member states. i am personally in favour of the idea of reducing vat rates on certain products which are closely linked to energy efficiency and can stimulate substantial energy savings. in conclusion, let me admit some concern about the plan to apply the maximum flexibility allowed by the revised stability and growth pact. some governments tend to abuse such measures for their own populist political ends without a clear development concept.
the european union has an obligation to adopt a roma strategy, but the member states should also be more active in this area. i myself live in a slovak region where about 10% of the population is roma. for this reason, i am intimately aware of their specific, socially disadvantaged situation. the greatest responsibility lies with local government representatives, who are often left alone to deal with very complex problems, mainly unemployment, due to the low level of education of the roma population. to find balanced solutions, we must invite to dialogue, above all, representatives of the roma minority who are intimately familiar with the problems of this community. only then will our measures be effective. the european social fund is the most important instrument for integrating people into the labour market. i call on the member states to ensure that excessive administrative barriers do not deter ngos and local authorities from applying for european social fund funding for projects that help to effectively address roma issues.
in times of financial crisis, strong words are not enough, concrete actions must follow. at this critical juncture, we must ensure that smes have access to finance to carry out their innovative activities in order to increase their technological maturity and thus their competitiveness. in this area, the micro-loan programme and the venture capital fund need to be strengthened. it is necessary to create conditions for investments in technical infrastructure for research, development and innovation with a link to smes. for this reason, i welcome the 30 billion loan package for smes agreed at the ecofin council. i am currently preparing a report on the construction products marketing regulation. i work very closely with smes and i believe that i will be able to produce very good legislation for smes.
the whole world will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights on december 10. tomorrow we will welcome his holiness the dalai lama to our parliament. china is one of the countries that signed the declaration, yet it violates the human rights of men, women and children. as chair of the femm committee, i would like to point out the one-child policy, which is clear evidence of a totalitarian, undemocratic regime in china. this policy clearly violates several human rights. to name just a few: the killing of girls who are unwanted by choice, human trafficking and sexual slavery, child abduction, denial of legal existence to stepchildren and other pregnancies, abandoned children, violence against pregnant women, forced abortions, post-operative problems and female suicides. the democratic world should clearly state its reservations about china's policies and monitor...
we are living in a time of great opportunity, but also of great danger. man can destroy much faster than he can build. the terrorist attacks in bombay, india, that killed two hundred innocent civilians, once again showed that there are no limits to man's capacity for destruction. terrorism is a new war without borders and without fronts, so the fear of nuclear and biological weapons is not unfounded. europe is a model of coexistence between people of different cultures and religions. the christian heritage gives europe a responsibility for world peace and the chance to become a source of hope for peaceful coexistence and mutual respect. therefore, benedict's europe in a crisis of cultures is a set of recommendations that pope benedict xvi offers to europe in his book. i believe that europe will not disregard and will implement these recommendations.
in writing. the record high prices of staple foods, which have a significant impact on the number of hungry people in the world, are the result of a number of known causes. in addition to specific conditions in some countries (china, india), these include global climate fluctuations, a shift from growing food crops to growing biofuels, and the absolute low world cereal stocks. in this regard, i consider it essential that a unified, coordinated and effective eu response is developed. i welcome the commission's proposal to set up a fund to deal with the food crisis. especially at a time when higher food prices have increased the cost of food aid, which more and more people need. we must realise that we are using the taxpayers' money of the eu countries for development aid. nor does the surge in food production in developing countries and its impact on the poorest justify our neglecting an efficient and transparent distribution of food. given the instability of regimes in many developing countries, the breakdown of democracy and corruption, i am very reluctant to support the budget in these countries. i prefer support for projects and programmes to be directed predominantly at public or semi-public bodies, consortia or associations representing them. two years ago i proposed, and my proposal was accepted by the plenary, a monitoring and evaluation of aid twice a year with the signatures of the ec, the local government authority and the aid recipient.
for the pse group. colleagues, imagine if there were no tax fraud in the european union. if the funds thus obtained were distributed fairly, every citizen of the european union, including children and pensioners, would have €500 more in their wallet each year. no country can fight tax evasion effectively if it does so alone. international cooperation is particularly necessary in the area of vat, where the current system makes it difficult to monitor transactions within the european union. one solution with a long-term positive effect in the fight against tax fraud is the creation of a vat system under which transactions between member states would be taxed at a rate that is not zero. the zero rate on goods exports is exploited by fraudsters and criminal groups, who, for example, spin off non-existent businesses and fraudulently extract billions of euros from state budgets. today's long tax filing deadlines also create a climate for such tax evasion. the report on the draft directive under discussion is an acceleration of the exchange of information needed to combat tax fraud. for this reason too, we are reducing the deadline for the submission of tax returns for intra-community transactions to one month. the vat system established in 1993 is only a transitional system. i believe that the commission will present more ambitious measures at the beginning of the next term, addressing a definitive and comprehensive vat reform. the temporary nature of the present system is also one of the reasons why i am asking the commission in my amendment, which was accepted by the committee, to assess the impact of the measures adopted three years earlier than the original amendment. so we don't have to evaluate the system when it's no longer valid. in conclusion, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on a balanced report. the proposal allows for a timely response to tax fraud. on the other hand, it is positive that the business community has also expressed the view that the administrative burden will be minimal.
mr president, distinguished members of parliament and guests. there is no doubt that tax fraud causes significant distortions of competition, the functioning of the internal market and reduces public finance revenues. the explanatory memorandum does not state with full conviction that the proposed measure, which is exclusively aimed at speeding up the collection and exchange of information relating to operations within the european union, will not represent a significant burden for the business sector. the commission's explanatory report also acknowledges the doubts of the business community as to the ability of the tax authorities to use the information provided. these doubts were not dispelled by the report. but there is a place to start with measures to combat tax evasion. it is likely that only practice will show whether the proposed measure will work or will only impose an additional administrative burden on the business sector.
in writing. − the situation of women in the balkan states needs to be addressed as accession talks continue to progress. as my party, the epp-ed, was founded on the ideals of equality and justice for all people, i believe that it is the role of the european parliament to act as a defender of the basic fundamental rights that we believe should be guaranteed to all human beings, especially in the various candidate countries. it is obvious that true democracy can only exist when all citizens of a nation are given equal rights and equal opportunities. the political, economic, and social context of the situation of women in the balkan states is lagging. as a doctor, i see this as especially important in the realm of women's health, as gender discrimination creates a severe lack of progress in medical areas like cervical cancer, breast cancer, and psychological rehabilitation for sexual violence. i urge the european parliament to act responsibly, in order to assure the women of the balkan states that their voices will be heard.
in writing. − the eu is working to improve the situation in the balkans, as it is very interested in lasting peace in this part of europe. the balkan countries have suffered the trauma of fratricidal wars, ethnic conflicts, political and economic transformation, the emergence of new states, and the breakup of yugoslavia. they have undergone dramatic changes over the past two decades with the clear aim of eu membership. croatia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are candidate countries. albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, serbia, kosovo under unscr 1244 are potential candidate countries, and the eu is currently preparing to join the eu. the prospect of eu accession is a huge motivation for policy-making and plays an important role in achieving the objectives. for this reason, women's rights are key criteria to be met in these countries as well. women who have been victims of war are active participants in stabilising and resolving conflicts. women must have equal access to the labour market and to quality employment opportunities. it's important that they get a chance to engage in the political process. the same approach should be applied in the media and on the internet. i voted in favour of the report by zita gurmai, which examines gender issues and the situation of women living in the balkans. i hope that the commission, also on the basis of the recommendations in this report, will provide pre-accession financial assistance to strengthen women's rights in the balkans, in particular through ngos and women's organisations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, despite my reservations about the quotas. although some of my colleagues believe that this is the best way to ensure women's participation in political and public life, i think that in a sense this is positive discrimination and also underestimation of women. the participation of women in the process of democratisation of the balkan region is essential. the situation in the balkans requires a comprehensive approach, that is, a view of both men and women. women must have equal access to the labour market, including access to management positions, and be adequately remunerated for their work, at a level comparable to that of men. if there are legislative obstacles to gender equality, they need to be changed. it also contributes to changing the negative image of women created by cultural differences and racial and ethnic discrimination. given the long history of armed conflicts in the region, it is desirable to pay special attention to the psychological and physical rehabilitation of women who have been and often are victims of sexual abuse and violence. respect for human rights by both men and women should be the main criterion for the potential future admission of the balkan candidate countries to eu structures.
in writing. − over the last 25 years, the cormorant population in europe has increased twentyfold and is now estimated to number nearly 1.8 million. the demonstrated impact of cormorants on fish stocks has been confirmed by ichthyological surveys as well as by fishermen's catch statistics in several cases within the eu. i voted for the report by heinz kindermann. i made my decision to vote on the basis of a petition addressed to the ep by members and friends of the slovak fishermen's union. the petition calls for a review of council directive 79/409/eec in view of the evidence of lasting damage suffered by aquaculture businesses as a result of the rapidly increasing cormorant population in the eu. the possibility of granting a derogation for the catching of cormorants under the current legislation is not a sufficient instrument to deal effectively with this problem, as it is very difficult to achieve in practice. experience also confirms that non-lethal methods of scaring cormorants are ineffective on rivers. the ep calls on the commission to propose a multi-stage plan for the regulation of the cormorant population, to be coordinated at european level, in order to reduce the increasing damage caused by cormorants to fish stocks, fisheries and aquaculture. i hope that the ep will also find a solution that will satisfy fishermen throughout europe, including the 120 000 fishing fishermen in slovakia, in order to preserve fish communities and take into account the socioeconomic importance of fishing.
in almost all european countries, holocaust denial and the promotion of fascism are legally and severely prosecuted. in order to effectively combat neo-nazi manifestations and other forms of extremism, not only the laws but even the constitution in hungary need to be amended. however, for a relatively long time hungary has lacked the political will to take such a step. the fides party, which is a member of the european people's party, rejects the tightening of laws to ensure a more effective fight against nationalism and radicalism. fides thus indirectly supports extremism in hungary. it has been just a month since hungarian extremists in fascist uniforms marched across the border into a quiet slovak town and caused terror. on behalf of european citizens of good will, i therefore call on hungarian politicians to adopt swiftly effective rules to combat manifestations of fascism and extremism in hungary.
when slovakia applied to join the european union, it was already a member of the council of europe and had thus signed and approved the charter of fundamental human rights and freedoms. the standard required by the council of europe was the same and binding on all states. in case of uncertainty and non-compliance, it was possible to request a review by the monitoring committee. the european parliament only deals with this issue selectively, when some members raise it. however, the situation in several states at the same time is not examined to the detriment of the case. moreover, it seems to me that some minorities in the european union, or in europe, are entitled to greater and more privileged rights. vojvodina is home to a large slovak minority, which has been preserving traditions for more than 200 years, many of which we have already forgotten in slovakia. mr president, i have learned that the hungarian minority in vojvodina, which is smaller than the slovak minority, is to be given a special status which will enable it to enjoy the rights of a member state. i therefore ask that the european union ensure equality in duties as well as rights, so that the members of the slovak minority living in vojvodina can enjoy the same rights as their fellow citizens of hungarian nationality.
last week we commemorated the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, which was adopted by resolution of the un general assembly on 10 december 1948. the belarusian opposition has tried to point out the human rights abuses in their country during a series of protests on human rights day. activists in the capital minsk marched in imitation prison clothes and carried placards with the words "i am a political prisoner". in another place, activists handed out a copy of the declaration to passersby, and in the western city of grodno, a demonstration was held. all opposition activities have been met with arrests of activists by the lukashenka regime. the paradox is that belarus has committed itself to guaranteeing human rights for its citizens by signing it, and it is unacceptable for the international community if the text of the declaration itself is prohibited from being distributed in the signatory country.
allow me to thank the rapporteur for the proposal for a directive on the organisation of working time which is presented, which is a supplement to directive no 88 of 2003. i also thank him for his speech today, and he did not forget to mention the health care workers who may be most affected. i believe that the preparation of this document has been given due attention by the european commission and the european council, and that it deserves our own extensive discussion. i've received a number of analyses from trade unions who are concerned that employers are not getting too many options. this is primarily an assessment of the time when the employee is to be available, i.e. the so-called standby time. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to understand that the emergency situation makes it impossible for a worker to organize his time freely. in this context, it is the work of an army of health workers that we can hand over to employers and abuse. we are aware that this case is not only about the degradation of the profession of doctor and nurse, but also about the appreciation of the emergency service as such, whose possible limitation may ultimately endanger the patient who needs their help. moreover, if we wanted to improve the regeneration of the workforce and improve family life with this directive, i doubt that the employer would have the same intention. all the european institutions are now dealing with the crisis, the financial crisis, and the high unemployment rate that is beginning, or that will follow. this fact can trigger increased claims, and therefore there is a concern on the part of employees that employers will also use the possibility of dismissal as one of the factors. and that's why there's gonna be so many people demonstrating here tomorrow.
colleagues, this debate takes place in the run-up to christmas, when toys take the lead among christmas gifts. parents and carers need to be assured that toys offered on the european market meet strict safety requirements, and children, as the most vulnerable consumers, need to be the most protected. the problems of the largest toy company matel have brought the importance of the agenda of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to the attention of the public. more than a year has passed since the european parliament adopted a declaration on the safety of goods, in particular toys, which launched work on the package of goods approved in march 2008. i appreciate that the rapporteur has respected the compromise agreed in the goods package for the marketing of products on which i have worked as one of the rapporteurs for the epp-ed group. this directive reflects the scientific knowledge of the last 20 years and prohibits the use of hazardous substances in toys. manufacturers will also have to clearly label allergens that may have negative effects on children, especially those under three years of age. they will have to display the warning on the toy in a visible and appropriate manner in a language which the consumer understands. this directive lays down the rules for the affixing of the ce marking, which is the visible result of the whole process involving conformity assessment in the broadest sense. by affixing the ce marking to a toy, the manufacturer declares that the product meets all applicable requirements and bears full responsibility for it. the same responsibility lies in the supply chain, where the market surveillance authority will carry out quality controls and ensure that products are sold that consistently meet high safety requirements. i would like to highlight the work of marianne thyssen, who managed to reach an agreement at the first reading. i am convinced that the compromise reached will ensure a higher level of toy safety and at the same time will not restrict the activities of toy manufacturers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises.
i was very pleased with the european union's proposals to make food security a priority in the reform of the international financial system. however, the council conclusions do not emphasise such a priority. i would therefore point out that there are increasing signs of a deterioration in the financing of farmers. in the european union, it is mainly the new member states, elsewhere it is south america, but also other parts of the world. a year-on-year decline of up to 50% in farm prices, with twice the price of fertilisers, and with both more expensive and less available credit, will lead to a substantial reduction in yields. with food supplies at a critical low, there is a real threat of a food crisis with unimaginable consequences. food crisis must be prevented as a priority, stocks must be increased, therefore more must be produced, and this must be properly refinanced. i therefore call on the council to make adequate crop and food stocks its top priority.
in writing. excessive speed, drink driving, not wearing a seatbelt or not stopping at red lights are the main causes of frequent fatal accidents on european roads, and the eu is therefore seeking to harmonise the rules for these four offences as a first step. i see the benefits of the directive in a uniform european approach to the enforcement and level of sanctions and in the use of the electronic network for the exchange of information. i regard as a negative the lack of awareness among drivers of the changes in the rules on the recovery of fines within the eu. i consider it important that the commission, in cooperation with the member states, should carry out an information campaign, since citizens must be informed in advance of the legal consequences of crossing the borders of another eu member state in terms of the amount and the imposition of sanctions for infringements of the rules of the schengen acquis. drivers should have the right to receive a notification in a language they understand, in particular where the receipt of the notification has legal effects. they must know the legality of the decision and the way to appeal the consequences of failure to act. i hope that this directive will also make drivers more careful and safer and will help to reduce the number of fatal accidents on european roads, which claimed 40 000 lives in 2007. i support the adoption of a directive on the simplification of crossborder road safety rules and therefore welcome the report by rapporteur ayala sender.
the current financial crisis is forcing us to come up relatively quickly with measures that should eliminate its impact on the population as well as on the economy of the european union. my colleague mr ehller's report deals very well with the issue of deposit protection in terms of the levels of coverage of the payment periods. despite the commission's current efforts, i cannot fail to mention in this context the commission's low degree of flexibility at the time of the crisis to avoid uncoordinated decisions by individual member states in relation to the protection of bank customers' deposits. this lack of coordination ultimately led, fortunately to a limited extent, to a chaotic behaviour of clients withdrawing deposits and transferring them to banks in member states where deposits are covered in larger volumes. in the context of the need to increase citizens' confidence in financial institutions, it is essential that the measures we take are as flexible as possible, but at the same time based on realistic assumptions. like the rapporteur, i believe that in the event of a lack of deposits, the proposed withdrawal period of 3 days is unrealistic, as the deposit protection system would be likely to fail for capacity reasons. the measure to make an exceptional disbursement of a limited amount of funds within 3 days is therefore a good proposal in case the continuity of banking services cannot be ensured. i am very pleased that the deposit guarantee is being increased to at least eur 100 000 by the end of 2009, which will certainly increase the confidence of depositors in financial institutions. in the light of the first experience of the financial crisis, i believe that smes, which are often beyond the reach of the necessary credit in times of crisis, should continue to fall within the scope of this deposit guarantee directive in order to face this crisis in at least this way.
i would like to welcome the text of the resolution on the general budget of the european union for 2009 presented by the committee on budgets and rapporteur jutta haug. its wording expresses the risks of the next year's budget of the european union in a strong and comprehensive way. in particular, the budgetary coverage of the impact of the european union plan to deal with the consequences of the financial crisis, its scope and specific direction are still open to the open funds. initiatives aimed at sustainable development, job growth and support for small and medium-sized enterprises will be of particular importance, but also the promotion of cohesion between regions, which is a key factor in stimulating economic growth in europe. in 2009, the use of the structural and cohesion funds is expected to accelerate, particularly in the new countries. it is therefore appropriate to emphasise the commitment of the budgetary authorities to provide additional appropriations in a timely manner. the reserve of eur 7,7 billion against the payment ceiling of the mff should serve as a potential source. in this connection, it is necessary to take measures to simplify the mechanisms of the structural and cohesion funds in order to improve their absorption capacity in the countries of the european union.
i'd like to thank jutte haug, mr. lewandowski and the coordinators for a great job. they are certainly aware that the 2009 budget will be subject to changes next year, when we will have to respond flexibly to the evolution of the economic crisis. in the area of cohesion policy, it will be particularly important to be able to provide the necessary resources flexibly. we must be prepared to provide additional appropriations for expenditure in a timely manner, especially in the event of faster implementation of structural policies. for the national economies of the new member states with a relatively low economic level, it is cohesion policy that creates the potential to catch up with the advanced countries more quickly. it is particularly important today, in times of economic crisis, to use this instrument effectively. in some member states, scientists have calculated the negative impact of late payments on employment, labour productivity and economic growth in those countries. if we had been able to draw on the funds at the rate we had envisaged in the mff, we would have achieved today in the new member states a higher labour productivity of more than 2%, a higher economic growth of more than 2%, and we would have employed 1% more people. in this context, we must consider the promotion of cohesion as a key factor in stimulating key macroeconomic indicators in the european union. the use of funds is negatively affected by the different levels of bureaucracy in the member states. it is therefore essential that we reduce bureaucracy in the european union as a whole when it comes to the use of european funds. i am sure you would like us to be able to tackle today's global problems in the spirit of solidarity and within the framework of the community as a whole. we must therefore guarantee the availability of the resources we will need for cohesion policy in the future.
in my vote i supported the common position adopted by the council on the two-package directive - the working time directive and the temporary employment agencies directive - because this compromise ensured greater flexibility in the labour market. under the opt-out clause, individual eu member states could allow employees working in their territory to work more than 48 hours per week, provided that the worker agreed to a longer working week, which would be a maximum of 60 or 65 hours per week under the terms of the compromise, in accordance with the conditions laid down. today's vote on the council's compromise position was about five years of efforts by member states to reach a compromise. working in the european parliament has taught me how difficult it is to reach a compromise, and i regret that the european parliament has rejected the council's common position.
i thank the rapporteur, mr catani, for his report on the current situation of fundamental human rights and freedoms in europe. the fight against terrorism is often a violation of fundamental human rights, where the fundamental right to privacy is violated, the protection of personal data is threatened or violated, and discrimination is often involved. we are witnessing that many meps have used this report to push their party agenda by demanding autonomy. autonomy has no place in the european union, autonomy in the 21st century as a political entity has no place in the lisbon treaty. in the european union, we have free movement of persons as a major privilege, and therefore we could shift autonomy according to the current situation in the labour market. only backward people and people who do not see the main idea of uniting the states of the european union are heating their irredentist bacon on the fire of nationalism and fascism, and it is for this reason that i reject any justification of autonomy as an effective way of solving the problems of traditional national minority communities.
i voted for the marianne thyssen report. rapex is not just 5 letters, but it is a european rapid alert system that alerts european consumers to dangerous consumer products. thanks to the rapid exchange of information between member states, 221 alerts concerning toys were received in the system in 2006 out of a total of 924. these were mainly the risk of injury to children or the risk of developing various allergies and the deterioration of health, especially of allergic people. i am glad that parliament voted on this directive today, because on the basis of these facts we need a directive very badly. by voting on this directive today, the european parliament has taken a major step forward in the field of toy safety, i.e. for the health and safety of children, by modernising the 20-year-old toy directive. i am delighted that visitors from slovakia were able to witness this event in the european parliament, whom i warmly welcome and wish a pleasant stay in the seat of european democracy.
allow me to thank my colleague mann for his report. we know how important it is to set the rules and remove the obstacles to the mobility of students and workers, who move on the basis of supply and demand in the european union labour market. the european credit system for vocational education and training will facilitate the transfer, recognition and accumulation of learning outcomes. it will be applicable to outcomes achieved through different learning pathways at all levels of the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning. with this approval, we have taken a step towards a wider support for lifelong learning and increased employability, openness, mobility and social inclusion of workers and learners. this will facilitate the development of flexible individual approaches and also the recognition of those learning outcomes that are acquired through non-formal and informal learning.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs thyssen for having brought about a commendable compromise, which means that our children will be protected from the harmful substances in toys, and that industrial undertakings will not suffer either. as you know, i fully supported the limitation of allergens in toys -- i'm a father of four myself, and i didn't always think about the harmlessness of every toy my children were holding in their hands. parents in europe often rely on the fact that when a toy reaches the store, it is not harmful to the child. i am therefore pleased that we have discussed the possibility of tightening the rules so that only toys suitable for children are sold in shops, since children are the most vulnerable consumer group. up to 80% of toys on the european union market are imported and it should be recalled that during 2007, millions of toys made in china were withdrawn from the market because they did not comply with european standards. at present, the circulation of goods requires a review of the rules for placing goods on the market and a check on compliance with standards.
in writing. − if you have the mobility of workers is also a key element in achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, but it is still hampered by administrative, legal, tax or social obstacles. the administrative obstacles are mainly due to differences between national labour market legislation, for which member states are largely responsible. first of all, i am disappointed that some eu-15 countries still apply labour market restrictions to workers from the new member states, even though the concerns of the citizens and governments of these countries are not borne out by economic analysis and statistics. citizens turn to me with many of the problems they face in exercising their right to mobility outside their country of origin. they face non-recognition of experience related to mobility in the framework of professional development, social security and pension problems, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. language barriers are also among the main obstacles to the mobility of workers and their families, and therefore member states must actively promote the teaching of foreign languages, in particular for adults. i hope that effective information campaigns will provide citizens with relevant information on the eures network, which is the single contact point for workers' mobility in europe, on the tress network or on the solvit tool to tackle internal market and labour mobility problems.
in writing. − education and training is the driving force behind the lisbon strategy. comprehensive lifelong learning strategies and tools, in particular the european qualifications framework, europass, the key competences framework and recommendations for mobility and quality assurance in higher education, should be applied more consistently in each member state. member state governments should play a much more dynamic role in education-related policies. although the harmonisation of the european qualifications reference system is not due until 2010, the accelerated implementation of the european qualifications framework in all member states would reduce the difficulties currently faced by citizens in the eu. the mobility of students and teachers is an essential element of professional mobility. more attention needs to be paid to initiatives such as the bologna process and the comenius, erasmus and leonardo da vinci programmes, which allow study abroad and highlight the importance of professional mobility for the future. the quality of school curricula and teaching is the key to a successful education system. the need to introduce european citizenship programmes, foreign language teaching programmes, consumer and environmental protection programmes and the fight against climate change into the curriculum is urgent. it is important that member states allocate adequate resources to the social security of teachers, recruitment and training of teachers, especially of foreign languages. i believe that if we can't make the teaching profession more attractive, there won't be enough quality professionals in education.
