in october 2003, croatia declared an ecological and fishing zone in the adriatic. slovenia and italy opposed this. they succeeded in signing an agreement a year later between slovenia, italy, the european union and croatia. under this agreement, the zone is not applicable to the member states. nevertheless, the croatian parliament decided last year unilaterally that the ecological fishing zone will also apply to the member states, no later than 1 january this year. the sabre made life very difficult for the people of the adriatic. for example, the unilateral decision of croatia has put fishermen in difficulty, reducing their fishing grounds and the port of koper has lost access to international waters. the council's decision to extend the ecological fishing zone to the member states from 1 january this year is contrary to croatia's internationally accepted commitment and raises doubts about its credibility. and the violation of the commitments made by the state itself does not happen in modern democratic legal states. this is completely contrary to the political culture of the european union. that is why i am wondering whether croatia really wants to become a member of the european union. if the answer is yes, it must act immediately and start to comply with the agreement on the ecological fisheries zone as well as all other agreements already concluded.
slovenia holds the presidency of the european union and its prime minister, who is also president of the council of the european union, has now twice given an assessment of the situation in bosnia and herzegovina which is extremely dramatic and which departs from previous assessments of the situation in that country. he says the situation is so dramatic, it's even worse than kosovo. this has provoked very violent reactions both in bosnia and herzegovina and in the institutions of the federation, the institutions of the republic of serbia and among the entire population. the high representative mr lajčák has also not made such a negative assessment to date. therefore, i believe that this assessment is unrealistic, incorrect and also unprofessional and does not motivate either the institutions or the people of this country to be more successful in their approach to the european union. i therefore believe that there is a need for greater coordination between the institutions of the european union at this time when sensitive issues such as bosnia and herzegovina are at stake.
as a member of parliament, a passenger and a pilot, i am pleased that this directive is the first time that the union has regulated the field of airport charges, which i consider useful for several reasons. firstly, i consider it essential that it establishes common principles for the charging of airport charges at airports, which will lead to more transparency and less discrimination. the second emphasis i see is on the introduction of dialogue between airport operators and air carriers, which should necessarily also mean greater attention to passengers, whether for their safety or for the quality of the service. it seems to me important that we have also shown in this directive a favourable attitude towards the development needs of airports, which means the possibility of higher charges, but subject to a dialogue with users, with clear information and the exclusive purpose of charges for development purposes. finally, i would like to emphasise the support for the establishment of independent regulatory bodies, in the hope that, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, this will not lead to excessive bureaucratization. i am thinking in particular of those member states which have one large airport and one national carrier which is predominantly state-owned. even if large-scale regulatory bodies are not needed in such cases, it is essential to ensure structural separation of this function from activities related to ownership or control. allow me to add a terminological note: i think it would be more appropriate to use the term 'independent regulatory authority' in english than 'independent supervisory authority', since the latter could also be understood as an inspection authority, which is not the purpose of this directive. on the second reading, i propose that, under certain conditions, an opt-out option should also be introduced for airports operating in special circumstances. congratulations to the reporter and all those who contributed.
man is the most adaptable of creatures, and many adults have come to accept the fact that learning is necessary in adulthood and in old age. in the future, such people, who never stopped learning, will surely have the advantage in adapting to the rapid changes we face every day. it is also important for the well-being of the elderly that they can continue to contribute to society with their knowledge and experience. they feel the satisfaction of being useful and needed by society. the ageing of the population will also require the creation of new occupations, which will require the most suitable people to be older. a friend of mine, who has ten children and no grandmother to help her with the education, said to me, "do you know where i can buy a grandmother for my children? "but i often recall the story of a doctor who asked a retired schoolteacher to teach a boy in the hospital who was badly burned and unlikely to survive. thanks to the teacher's persistence and patience, as well as his experience, the boy began to respond to her questions. he started to believe in life. why would the doctors send him a teacher who's working so hard with him if they didn't believe he would survive? the knowledge of an older person saved a young one's life. young people have many learning abilities and advantages that they sometimes fail to exploit to the full, but older people need to be given the will and the encouragement to learn that it is never too late and that they can still make up for what they may not have had the time and the means to do in their youth. learning is about living life to the fullest.
the programme of the slovenian presidency, which covers all the important and topical issues of the time, is a good basis for the work of this six-month period. two minutes allow me to focus on just one of the areas, namely civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and here i expect the slovenian presidency to devote due attention to monitoring the functioning of the information system 'sis 1 for all' and to accelerating the implementation of 'sis 2'. the establishment of a common asylum and migration policy, which must be based on close cooperation with countries of transit and origin. there are currently 27 different regimes and approaches to tackling this problem, and of course we do not imagine that such a complex issue can be dealt with in such a short time, but these difficult tasks must be tackled. the third area is cooperation with frontex, where the slovenian presidency, on the basis of an analysis of the commission report, is to draw up guidelines for the future operation of this agency. the fourth area concerns the urgent harmonisation of european visa policy and the establishment of the legal basis for the launch of the european visa information system. the common thread of all the presidencies to date has been the fight against organised crime and terrorism. i support the measures proposed and i propose that we finally start to address the causes of terrorism. slovenia is one of the most successful members of the european union in the field of e-government and also in the removal of administrative barriers, and i therefore expect that in each of the areas of the presidency it will offer good practices from the slovenian environment to other member states. i also hope that the slovenian presidency will cooperate well with parliament and the commission, and i am sure that after the slovenian presidency it will be possible to say that the european union has taken another step forward.
i am proud that today the slovenian prime minister is addressing the european parliament as president of the european council. this speaks not only of the dramatic changes that we have witnessed, as the prime minister said, in slovenia over the last 20 years, but it speaks of the almost unimaginable changes that we have witnessed in europe itself, in this dense time of history. the vice-president of the european commission said in ljubljana that the beginning of slovenia's presidency of the european council marks the end of the divide between the old and new members of the european union. i would like to build on this beautiful idea and say the following: until recently, we could mostly listen to what the candidates and then the new members of the european union expected from the european union. today, europe has every right to ask the slovenian prime minister and slovenia as the presidency what europe can expect from slovenia. i think it's a remarkable historical event with both symbolic and real consequences. in my personal opinion, he can expect the most that slovenia can give. in my view, slovenia is well prepared and fully focused on its international role and its role as president of the european council. i would like to thank mr schulz for the support of our group for the slovenian presidency and i, as the president of the largest opposition party in slovenia - the social democrats - would like to assure this house that in the light of the parliamentary elections that will follow the end of the slovenian presidency of the european union, i will not exploit the european policy of the slovenian government's presidency of the european union to make it a target or a victim of our joint efforts to ensure that slovenia succeeds in its important international task. the prime minister's success will be the success of the prime minister of slovenia, all of slovenia and also my success. i am convinced that after the end of the slovenian presidency we will be able to see, as someone has said, that there are no small and big members of the european union, that only those who are a little less or a little more successful in the presidency of the european union. i wish that, with a little luck, the prime minister and the slovenian government could be among those who have been more successful.
mr. president, your arrival and speech today marks the beginning of the final phase of slovenia's full integration into the european union. slovenia is the first country to be given the presidency, and eleven new members will follow. this is a great advantage for slovenia and also for europe, and i therefore wish you a very successful presidency. but the presidency is a very difficult job, and that's why i'd like to ask you about the injustices that are happening in the european union. this is not just a question for you, it is also a question for the president of parliament, it is a question for the president of the european commission. ten countries joined the european union in 2004. actually, only nine and a half. cyprus only entered with half of its own. two years later, we announced the arrival of romania and bulgaria, and again we forgot about the northern part of cyprus. and then after romania and bulgaria came, we didn't say anything about cyprus again. you, mr president, spoke today about the western balkans, you spoke about ukraine, moldova, the caucasus, north africa, but you did not mention the question of northern cyprus. it's like they're overlooked, like they're erased. this is not good. it is right that you have started intercultural and interreligious dialogue in ljubljana. and the real area where we can really make a big breakthrough would be cyprus. in cyprus, intercultural, interreligious dialogue is needed to give these 200 000 innocent people a chance to become members of the european union. it is also because cyprus has just adopted the euro as its new currency. they still have the lira in the north. and finally, mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i would have been happy if you had told me that you were being judged in serbo-croatian, in serbian. who in this room could have mistakenly thought that you were being tried in russian? once again, i wish you every success in your presidency.
it is with pleasure and pride that i share with you the festive sentiments, accompanied, of course, by a strong sense of responsibility and great opportunity. i am confident that slovenia will also prove through its presidency that we were not only concerned with the right geopolitical location years ago, but that we want to co-create a free, democratic and successfully united europe in a responsible way. i strongly support the ambition to implement the lisbon strategy, which is essential for our future. in this spirit, i expect slovenia to do everything possible to advance the common policy on telecommunications and information technology. this is essential for the implementation of the lisbon strategy, not only because of its contribution to the necessary increase in competitiveness, but also because of its proximity to citizens. the citizens of the european union like to feel the common policies in their pockets and we have succeeded with the roaming directive, which allows us to make calls across europe cheaper, and certainly the common policy in this area gives us new such feelings. the second point i would like to make is in the area of health. i am very pleased, and not the only one in this parliament, that the fight against cancer is also one of the priorities of the slovenian presidency. this should become a permanent item on the agenda of the european council. cancer is not just a matter for health ministers, it is a disease that every third european union citizen can expect, and the trends are not promising. this is a broader social and political issue, which is also linked to the implementation of the lisbon strategy. if we keep getting sick, we're not going to be able to increase productivity and competitiveness. health is a dimension, it is not just a sector, and i would be happy if we could achieve two things during the slovenian presidency. first, greater attention to prevention in the fight against cancer, and second, the establishment of an interinstitutional working group to combat cancer. this fight requires a single, good coordination between the european parliament, the council and the european commission. mr. chairman, i wish you the best of luck in your presidency.
the many congratulations to slovenia as the first new member state to hold the presidency of the council show that particular attention will be paid to its work. there are great expectations and great responsibilities. but outside the political institutions, in the younger member states, there is a widespread perception among the public that only a few large countries are running the union. it is here that slovenia has a unique opportunity to demonstrate that the union is made up of 27 countries that responsibly co-shape common policies. i expect it to pay great attention to cohesion and reducing disparities in europe in implementing its priorities and legacy agenda. and i would like to take this humble moment to talk about climate change and energy, because europe has set itself very ambitious goals, the development of a low-carbon society, and that's what matters: a low-carbon society. i would like to present slovenia with concrete proposals, projects and results in this area.
mr. prime minister, i welcome the emphasis you have placed on human rights today. as a liberal mep from slovenia and a former journalist, i believe that freedom of expression and freedom of the press are the most important human rights. that is why i would like to take this opportunity, a solemn occasion, to point out that the petition with which now as many as a quarter of all slovenian journalists are protesting against the open and covert pressure on them is a very serious matter. the commission has not yet received any information on the number of cases of fraud in the union. i think it is the duty of the presidency of the european union to confront its representatives, in substance, with the allegations and evidence contained in the petition.
just as we talk about women in industry, we could talk about women in the trade or in the medical profession. by nature, men and women have different physical abilities, so certain jobs are more suitable for women and certain jobs are more suitable for men. in cases where the quality of work and efficiency are not dependent on physical strength, it is unacceptable that women are paid less than their male colleagues. and women's jobs are already automatically lower paid, even though these jobs are not easy and require a lot of effort. we heard a colleague say that we had received similar reports about inequality of women 30 years ago. then why doesn't anything change? or is it changing very slowly? is it the corporations? i think we need to identify clearly the culprits and those responsible and to take a more determined approach to finally turn the situation in this area in a more positive direction for women.
i believe that the resolution we have drawn up in the committee on climate change reflects the essential conclusions of the bali agreements and also the views of the european parliament. i particularly welcome the agreement on the bali timetable, or the deadline for concluding an agreement beyond 2012. only a clear work plan can ensure continuity after the expiry of the kyoto protocol, which is what this parliament has been advocating all along. i am pleased that developing countries have also taken on some of the responsibility for reducing co2 emissions and have committed themselves to achieving sustainable development. this naturally requires increased international cooperation, both in terms of financial and human resources. i really hope that we will be able to effectively translate existing and established mechanisms in europe, such as the carbon market, to the international level. at the same time, we need to simplify them and avoid making them a disproportionate bureaucratic burden in relation to the potential benefits. only then can we expect to succeed in achieving the goals we have set. i see the present situation as an opportunity. i see successful sustainable development mainly in increasing research capacity. as an example, global investment in energy research has fallen by 40 percent since 1980. there is no better or more beautiful picture for the european union. so we need more money and more educated and creative people. i congratulate the negotiators of the european union and wish all of us that we will always be represented by such persistent, penetrating and successful negotiators in the future. and finally, let me say that when it comes to climate change, the eyes tend to be on politics, but action on climate change is not just a matter of politics. it is also time for industry, entrepreneurs and researchers to respond successfully.
on behalf of the alde group. during the debate on this regulation, we knew that its key point was the question of the choice of law applicable to acts adopted in the context of territorial cooperation. the aim of the regulation was to enable the partners to apply the law which would have the same effects in all countries, since the existing methods of applying the two legal systems simultaneously had not been successful. the regulation is clearer in this respect than any previous similar document. law: the law of the place where the registered office of the cross-border cooperation body is situated, if established, shall apply. we were aware that the regulation was not conceived as a new legal instrument but as a tool that would operate alongside some of the structures already in place. it is now clear that the regulation will not have the same effects throughout the european union and that different types of territorial cooperation associations are likely to emerge due to the different conditions imposed by the member states. in order to apply the regulation effectively, national legislation needs to be adapted accordingly, as required by article 16. only if this happens can we really expect the effect of standardisation of practice in the long term. member states are therefore invited to adopt legal acts to establish the development of territorial cooperation and to improve the legal certainty of its framework. in short, given its specific incompleteness, the regulation is likely to become a kind of legal laboratory in which practices are measured and the conditions prepared by the member states are compared. it would therefore be useful to monitor systematically the cases of application of the regulation in order to establish over time a public database of european territorial cooperation associations.
first of all, let me thank you for the very good presentation of a rather complex area that we're discussing here today. let me take this opportunity to draw attention to another area that we have not dealt with clearly enough. these are the external borders of the european union. all the member states that are now on the new ... that are now taking care of the new borders, the external borders of the european union, have put a huge effort into making sure that these borders are really safe, protected, that there is the appropriate infrastructure that ensures the implementation of the schengen standards. but at the same time, we found that life on the border is a little bit worse than it was before. i want to draw attention to the lower quality of life of people along the border, especially in less developed places. i would therefore like to make an initiative, and i would also like to ask whether the council and the commission are planning any specific additional measures to ensure a higher quality of life along the border, to ensure that people along the border do not leave these areas. we all know that if people don't live on the border, if the space is empty, it's hard to protect it. and another question: the council representative has already mentioned in committee that cooperation with the balkan countries is also one of the important tasks to which the council is devoted. in this context, i am particularly interested in whether it would be possible to establish good police cooperation with the balkan ... within the balkan countries, precisely in order to implement the schengen standards and ensure our security.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i have supported this austrian initiative, very well relaunched by the portuguese presidency, since the very beginning. i firmly believe that practical and operational cooperation between special intervention units in the european union is very important in order to deal with the threatening situation. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr frança, for the excellent work he has done on this dossier, and also the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs as a whole for the very useful amendments which are contained in the report. i welcome the amendments suggested by parliament which are aimed at improving the initiative. i would just like to mention the amendments to make sure that there is no overlap with the prüm decision or questions relating to fine-tuning the liability provisions or to redefining and clarifying the term ‘crisis situations’ or an amendment referring to the possibility of obtaining funding for common projects. it should be remembered that special intervention units currently operate under the atlas network. they carry out joint training and exercises and we fund such projects. we have funded such activities from our budget since 2006 and my proposal for 2008 is to increase that funding for atlas up to eur 900 000. in conclusion, i reiterate my support for this report and i strongly wish for rapid progress on this dossier and quick adoption also by the council.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. this decision on cooperation between the special intervention units of the member states in crisis situations is one of a number of documents intended to increase the readiness and capacity of the member states to respond adequately in the event of crisis situations, such as terrorist acts. crisis response and the fight against terrorism are complex tasks requiring good cooperation from all member states. so far, much has been done in terms of political and legal foundations and concrete, preventive measures, but little has been done to address the causes, the roots of terrorism. i therefore reiterate my call for the council and the commission to pay more attention to the roots and causes of terrorism. a number of good first steps have also been taken in the area of information exchange, but they are not yet sufficient. the problem has been that there would be considerable formal obstacles if a member state were to ask another member state for help in a crisis situation, for example in the event of a terrorist attack. in order to increase the effectiveness of action in crisis situations, the cooperation of the member states, their authorities and, of course, in particular, the cooperation and also the knowledge of the special units is therefore essential. and this decision opens up the possibility of participating in the most serious terrorist acts, so really in a real crisis situation, and allows the requested country to help with its special units. it does not in any way infringe the sovereignty of another country, but is an aid to another member. this is not only important because of the concrete circumstances, but also because it demonstrates the application of one of the fundamental values of the european union, which is solidarity. in my political group we support this resolution and we expect it to receive a great deal of support in the vote, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr frança, for his good work.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr özdemir, on a job well done and i thank him for his contribution to this report, which expresses a clear political will for more strategic cooperation between the european union and the countries of central asia, whose democratic and economic progress is important for global stability. the report realistically and favourably welcomes the progress that the countries of the region have clearly made in various areas, while at the same time being constructively critical of the political shortcomings, in particular in the areas of human rights, democracy, the rule of law, environmental protection and health. the report was prepared with an awareness of the diversity of the countries of central asia, but also with the conviction that it is in the mutual interest to deepen cooperation, not only in energy but also in broader political, security and other areas. the desire for a new dynamic in relations is also reflected in the proposal to measure progress in cooperation over two years and for the european commission to arrange for the establishment of delegations in all central asian countries as soon as possible. the countries of central asia and all members of the european union are committed to the same values and principles as participants in the osce. kazakhstan has gained a lot of confidence by holding the osce chairmanship in 2010 and will be the first central asian country to assume such an important responsibility. i hope that this will also contribute to the further democratic and comprehensive progress of kazakhstan and all the countries of the region and their closer links with the european union. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the european commission, the council and parliament are speaking the same language on central asia. it is time to take relations and cooperation between the european union and the countries of central asia to a higher level on the basis of a clear and binding strategy.
mr president, i would like to inform my colleagues in the ppe-de group that there is a mistake in the second part of the split vote. the right decision is ‘no’, not ‘yes’.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the situation in kosovo is quite calm, in some ways even exemplary and promising. except in the north, where the serbs live. individual serbs are burning, and that's not right. the declaration of independence in the kosovo assembly was dignified, respectful of all the peoples living there and in the spirit that should prevail in the future. the people of kosovo deserve our trust, we must believe in them, because they are deciding their future. they sincerely want their future to be european as soon as possible. as rapporteur for serbia, i welcome the prudent approach of serbia not to impose economic sanctions against kosovo. at this emotional moment for serbia, i understand on the one hand the harsh and threatening rhetoric of some politicians. but the practice should be the result of reason and european values. the status will allow kosovo to develop further, and will allow it access to international monetary fund funds and foreign investment. it is important to further strengthen trade links between serbia and kosovo in order to stimulate economic growth and contribute to european integration. only states can be members of the european union and kosovo became a state. the serbs in kosovo now have a european perspective too. serbia should also move forward, and as soon as possible, should start to re-engage with its european perspective. the government's task forces now have to work even harder. they should prepare the next steps towards closer relations for serbia, its economy and all its citizens who thus wish to join the european union. the attacks on the embassies of the member states of the european union in belgrade cannot be a path to the european union and are not an expression of the will of the majority of serbian citizens. the european union is also calling on the serbian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the kosovo crisis is resolved. there is no going back, only forward to the european union. and now, a final word to minister samardzic. the arson is not legitimate anywhere. it's not acceptable anywhere in the world. too many villages have burned in the western balkans in the last decade. the serbs in kosovo must be allowed to participate and take decisions in a new independent state. i expect a clear call for cooperation from belgrade. serbs and albanians deserve it. the entire western balkans and the european union deserve and need this.
after the changes that have taken place, our task is not to interpret history, nor to create a domino effect, but to support a development that will finally stabilise this region and bring it closer to european standards and a european perspective. the important fact in this extremely complex story is that the european union has taken on a great deal of responsibility. it has unanimously decided to support the eulex mission to help build institutions, political and economic development. the european commission is also announcing support measures for the development of the wider region. all this is intended to unblock a dangerous and unpromising situation and to put an end to the strange paradox of a part of europe, surrounded by member states, being under the protection of the united nations. it is my wish, and not only my wish, that the idea of reconciliation, peace and cooperation which has enabled such a fresh vision of the european union should also become the key idea or foundation of coexistence within kosovo as well as in relations between serbia and kosovo. in this spirit, i welcome the words and actions of all those who, in these difficult days for both serbia and kosovo, have spoken for peace, for sobriety and for openness, for the future.
africa has over 13% of the world's population, but only a good percentage of all the scientists. the continent spends only 0.3% of gdp on research and development. at the same time, europe is facing two important global challenges, which can only be successfully addressed by acting globally. even in the scientific research field. the first is the so-called millennium development goals to eradicate world poverty. poor health or even the death of adults during their active life span can drive both younger and older generations of the same family into poverty. in exploiting the potential of the seventh framework programme, we must be open enough to invest not only in research into the diseases that afflict the european population. we also need to find an appropriate response to diseases that pose a global threat. for example, aids, which by 2006 had killed more than two million people, is a major cause of death. the second challenge is climate change. the data show that the poorest of the poor will be the most affected. europe must take its share of responsibility and participate in both climate change adaptation and global warming mitigation. the seventh framework programme shall also be open to the participation of scientists from third countries. but they tell us that they have too little capacity to cooperate. mechanisms within development policies have great potential to reduce disparities. but we must break with the traditional cooperation based on aid alone. building a partnership means integrating science, technology and innovation into our development policies.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am really happy – and that is not just a diplomatic phrase – to be here today to speak on the occasion of this opportunity to boost europe’s innovations. i think that parliament’s vote will be very important. as mr paasilinna mentioned, we have come a long way since the beginning, but i would just like to remind the house that there was a lot of scepticism, reluctance and hesitation about the proposal to boost innovation by such an establishment and i am glad that we have been able to shift these original positions into a consensual and supportive position on the part of member states, parliament, the institutions and partners. i recall the efforts of the finnish, then the german, portuguese and now the slovenian presidencies. in particular i would like to express gratitude here to parliament’s rapporteur, mr paasilinna, because he was very instrumental and supportive, and also to the chairwoman of the committee on industry, research and energy, ms niebler, as well as mr böge, the chairman of the committee on budgets, and the rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, ms hennicot-schoepges. without these efforts and contributions we would not have been able to arrive at this moment. i think this is an opportunity to show that europe has the capacity and also a strong commitment to improving its innovation capacity in the globalised world. technological innovation is the key to growth, jobs and competitiveness, and this is the basis for the social wellbeing of our citizens. we are proposing to fully integrate the three sides of the knowledge triangle – education, research and innovation – by the cooperation of partners from business, research and academia. these will work together in so-called knowledge and innovation communities. i think that now is the time to set the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) into motion after all the preparations. we have already taken some steps, as you know, and i have informed the committee that we have launched a procedure for the identification of the governing board. there is a special high-calibre, independent identification committee which is now preparing criteria. we will then try to set up a group of 18 persons to start as the governing board. the identification committee works totally independently and autonomously. i think this is essential for the success of the eit and the legitimacy of the governing board. parliament and the council will be kept fully informed of the selection procedure and the outcome. the commission will draw up an interim report after completion of the first step of the selection procedure and a final report once the procedure is finished. parliament and the council will then have one month to take note of the proposed members of the eit governing board. their excellence, their undisputed reputation, total independence and ability to represent their interests from the sectors they represent – universities, research and business – will, i think, be an essential ingredient for the credibility of the institute in the short and the long term. allow me to underline an element of the utmost importance. i would like to formally state that the european commission is fully committed to respecting the principles of the autonomy and independence of the board, which are enshrined in the regulation, and it will not have any role in the eit’s strategic decision-making. on this basis the commission will provide administrative and financial support to the board at its request and to the extent that is necessary in the kick-off stage. there must be some assistance at the beginning. such support is intended to enable the board to select the first knowledge and innovation communities (kics) within the 18-month deadline and will in no way pre-empt its strategic decision-making. it is in our common interest to see the eit operational within the timeframe foreseen in the regulation. i am really looking forward to the successful establishment of the eit and once again i would like to express my deep gratitude for parliament’s commitment and contribution.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. three years have passed since the first initiative to establish a european institute of innovation and technology. much older, however, is the recognition that the key to greater competitiveness and innovation is the proper care for quality human resources. the answer to how to do this at european level is provided by the eit. the foundation is laid. the time has now come to implement the agreed measures swiftly and effectively. i thank my colleagues in the house and the rapporteur, and especially my colleagues in my political group. we have managed to negotiate and, together with the council and the commission, have produced a good proposal which contains most of our main ideas. innovation, as mentioned above, is at the heart of the eit. moreover, in line with our initiative, the institute represents a mark of excellence and thus a sign of european quality. the network structure with independent knowledge and innovation communities that emerges in the present proposal is a great achievement. we also managed to solve the complex and intricate issue of the organization of the work of the institute. the proposal on the table offers a solution in the form of a strategic innovation programme, which has balanced policy responsibility and professional independence as best as possible and clearly defined responsibilities for long-term strategic planning. even with limited funds, we can do much. the starting points are good, but effective implementation, as always, depends on ourselves, our will and our perseverance.
nothing is more destructive and humiliating than the feeling of exclusion, insignificance and powerlessness, which is why i support the european commission's proposal for community participation in a joint programme to support the integration and improvement of the quality of life of the elderly population through the use of information and communication technologies. this is another piece of the puzzle in the lisbon strategy to build a knowledge-based, digitally literate and economically more competitive europe. in order to effectively increase the participation of older people and improve their literacy, activities must be adapted and truly accessible to them. they must be understandable, easy to use and learn, and affordable. we must reach out to the ageing population and the disabled in both urban and rural areas, otherwise we risk the end result being exclusion rather than inclusion. with the increased use of information and communication technology, the older generation will finally benefit more from the innovations of the modern age. their quality of life will be improved as they will be more independent, mobile, active and involved in social and economic life. the adapted equipment, accessories and numerous modern electronic systems allow the management of the living environment. at the same time, they allow for control, which ensures greater safety and a better user experience. such equipment enables disabled and elderly persons to communicate with the outside world, receive remote care, work and have fun. we all want to reach old age, but none of us want to spend it alone and on the fringes of society. so now we are thinking about our future and taking new steps to make it so.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. combating climate change and energy are important components of eu development policy. more and more, and rightly so. i welcome any initiative that can contribute to a secure and sustainable energy supply, not only in europe but also in third countries. but let me express some concerns that we need to resolve before we establish the said fund. the first concern is that the number of energy and development policy initiatives is steadily increasing. unfortunately, the desired results are relatively rare. initiatives in the form of different funds are not coordinated and, in particular, rarely finance individual projects directly. the latter also applies to the fund, which is intended to operate by setting up and financing regional sub-funds in developing countries. it is necessary to consider how this will affect the transparency of the use of funds and how much the institutional conditions in developing countries allow their dedicated use. secondly, only timely action can be effective. in the case of the proposed global fund, timeliness is not detectable. the proposal was submitted in 2006, and we're only considering it this year. thirdly, i would like to emphasize the fact stated in the document itself: the funds allocated to the fund are insufficient. nor is there a minimum amount foreseen for the successful operation of the fund. this will hardly help to stimulate private sector investment. and fourthly, i find it difficult to imagine the effective operation of the fund as a mere effort by the union in cooperation with the international financial institutions. what is missing in our proposal is a clear ambition and a plan for cooperation with other industrialized countries around the world and the internationalisation of the global fund. as mentioned above, the idea is welcome, but its added value and actual implementation are still to be considered.
about the croatian report. this house, as well as the commission, almost enthusiastically welcomed the news that the croatian parliament had withdrawn its decision to declare an ecological fishing zone. and it seems that croatia may be rewarded by an accelerated resumption of negotiations as a result of this decision. i certainly wish to join the european union as soon as possible, but i would like to remind this house and in particular the rapporteur and friend, mr hannes swoboda, that the unilateral actions of the republic of croatia on border issues with neighbouring countries are not the exception but the rule. the only exception to this story was that once croatia had to backtrack on its unilateral move because it was faced with a choice: either the european union or nationalist isolation. and here this pressure has proved useful and i hope that rapporteur hannes swoboda and also the european commission and the presidency will continue to insist on the policy that unilateral actions by the republic of croatia in defining the border with neighbouring countries will not be rewarded.
progress and the rapprochement of the republic of macedonia with the european union is the best way to stabilise this part of the balkans. their successful negotiations will help all the neighbors to continue to strive for the status of the candidate. but to break through and solve the name challenge, external incentives are needed. symbolic action is needed in skopje and athens, perseverance is needed. the time has come to find a less provocative name for skopje airport, to condemn the disrespect and unacceptable desecration of the greek flag. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek authorities have not complied with the requirements of the relevant provisions of the schengen acquis. in the european union, we are building a community of modern post-national states. mutual respect for diversity and national identities is also a matter of respect for fundamental human rights. it is the only way to prevent, or at least limit, the negative consequences of a sense of national threat. we need to get visa-free travel to all the countries in the region. we also need a swift and lasting solution to the name issue and a comprehensive alliance between the republic of macedonia and the republic of greece. peace and stability and swift and successful euro-atlantic integration are in the interest of both countries and all peoples. but, commissioner and mr lenarčič, the slovenian presidency should put the question of macedonia on the agenda of the next summit. there's no need to wait until the fall to do this. and something about croatia. croatian politics has ambushed and surprised itself by establishing a protected ecological-fisheries zone. surprises like this are completely unnecessary in the future. if we have learned anything from this adventure, it is good, if they have learned nothing, then the talk and the swearing in of a successful conclusion of the negotiations in 2009 is just sand in the eyes. nobody needs sand in the eyes, not the citizens, not the economy, not the neighbours and not the u, not the european union. now we need a success story. but to succeed, the principle is needed: pacta sunt servanda (to respect the obligations assumed).
i too am glad that our neighbour croatia has stopped the implementation of the ecological and fisheries area, which was the main obstacle to the continuation of accession negotiations. nevertheless, croatia should be seriously reminded that we in the european union respect agreements and do not implement unilateral measures. but i do not agree with the excessive praise given to croatia for abolishing the ecological-fisheries zone. she first created the problem, and then we commend her for solving it. we are only encouraging her to try to solve other open questions in the same way. croatia is taking a lot of risks because it knows it has a lot of support for joining the european union. slovenia has always supported croatia's accession to the union, but we cannot agree with its behaviour on border issues when it sells land owned by slovenia.
i did not expect, madam commissioner, to be able to talk to you three times in the course of a week about cancer, and i see that we have a commissioner who knows what cancer is like and who will fight alongside us, because european citizens want, knowing that health is a competence of the member states, that certain tasks are carried out at european level, because only at this level can they be done well. and i'm glad you announced an action plan to fight cancer. we need it urgently, and if cancer has its own epidemic exponential dynamic, we need to have our own political dynamic, or else there will be a collapse, or the consequences of cancer will be worse. i am glad that the slovenian presidency has reinforced the expectation that there will be more coordinated action, more continuity and more strong dynamics in the future and, as you have said elsewhere this week, that this will be accompanied by multi-partnerships. and i think it would be right for the countries that are chairing not to take as their priorities just individual aspects but to take continuous care of the whole front of the fight against cancer that we have been talking about here today. and in that spirit, i want to see you help us to create that working group, or whatever you want to call it, that brings together the key institutions, the key actors in the fight against cancer, not to create a new bureaucracy, but to create a better working method of cooperation, to achieve better collective results. i wish you much success in your work, commissioner.
mr president, although i would like croatia to conclude negotiations with the european union as soon as possible, i abstained today on the swoboda report for one reason in particular: because of the amendment, which was adopted by a majority of votes, and which is of great concern to me, since it sets a precedent for the european parliament's decisions when it guesses the dates for the conclusion of negotiations. in particular, the rapporteur swoboda has suggested that the word could be replaced by should in any case, which means that he proposes that in any case, regardless of the criteria, the negotiations between croatia and the european commission should be concluded in 2009. i think that the european parliament has always insisted that the criteria must be respected and that this is then a condition for the conclusion of the negotiations. in today's report, however, hannes swoboda and the european parliament say that whatever happens, in any case, the commission must conclude the negotiations on croatia by the end of 2009. this is unacceptable to me.
i think that a fundamental reform of agricultural policy is needed, as regards the various quotas, quotas, restrictions and incentives for not producing food. i also want to know how much uncultivated land, fertile land, is left in europe. i very much support what mr nicholson said, to stimulate agricultural production in the european union and to consider incentives to stop the decline of the agricultural sector. young people are leaving, who will remain on earth? because of the shortage of food, they should not be allowed to open their doors wide to genetically modified food products. i also think that we need to revise our expectations of biofuels. i also think that the internal market should look at how high prices always bring the highest profits to the megamarket. in short, i expect the european commission to prepare immediate measures and, of course, a strategy for the new situation.
it would be difficult to find a european programme that would follow the objectives of the lisbon strategy as closely as the activities of the european global navigation satellite system. these include research and development in high-technology, creating new opportunities for young people, new and better jobs, developing entrepreneurship and more. the implementation of the system is so complex that no member state could have implemented it alone. this is where the added value of european integration is most evident. the implementation of the system also ensures greater independence and thus a competitive advantage for europe. until recently, the project was virtually buried because of funding problems. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, mrs etelka barsi-pataky, and the european parliament's negotiating team, led by mrs angelica niebler, who have done an excellent job. i also congratulate the slovenian presidency of the council on the successful agreement with parliament. but we're already years behind on the implementation. my wish and request is that the next phases, which involve very concrete activities, be implemented as soon as possible. the system is designed to handle the most demanding and diverse applications. i know that in some member states possible applications are already part of existing policy strategies. for example, slovenia has adopted an action plan on tolling in the free flow of traffic. i would like to see european satellites used for this, not satellites from third countries. finally, we must also define the supervisory authority and its seat. the member states should not forget the 2003 council decision and allocate the seat to one of the new member states which does not yet have a european institution. one such application comes from ljubljana, the capital of slovenia. it was prepared with care, with seriousness, with broad support and with a belief in success.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, first of all i would like to thank you and congratulate you on this excellent report which gives me the opportunity to speak to you on points of common interest. i would also like to say that i welcome the very high degree of convergence of views between our institutions, which is perfectly reflected in this report. it is clear that the overarching objective of our action remains first and foremost the fight against poverty in the context of the achievement of the millennium development goals. in this sense, the 10th european development fund, which is about to enter into force, is for us, the european union, the first great opportunity to translate the european consensus and the aid effectiveness agenda into practice. first, the amount. the financial allocation was substantially increased from eur 17.9 billion for the 9th edf to eur 22.6 billion for the 10th edf. i am also pleased to inform you that for the first time in the history of the edf, that is, since european cooperation began, the commission was able to commit by 31 january 2007 all the remaining funds from previous edfs, without a single euro being lost because of the sunset clause imposed by the member states on the 9th edf, as the report calls for. in the meantime, almost all the country strategies of the 10th european development fund have been completed. 58 strategy papers have been submitted to the edf committee, 14 are expected by next june and preparations for their implementation are already under way. once ratified by the acp states, the 10th edf will be able to start immediately and without any weight from the past, while its implementation cycle will be able to be closer to the previous budgetary cycle. this is a first step and i will continue to advocate, as you do, for a full budgetization of the edf. your support is also essential if we are to move cooperation with the acp countries once and for all from an intergovernmental approach and integrate it fully into the community budget and the codecision procedures. the budget will also respond to the wish you have expressed, which i fully share, to ensure full democratic control within the framework of the edf. we have already established the principle that strategy papers should be systematically sent to the joint parliamentary assembly. it is obvious that this is not enough; i have therefore instructed our delegations to forward the country strategy papers to the members of the national parliaments and i have personally undertaken to raise awareness in the partner countries so that they involve their national parliaments in the monitoring of community cooperation. a first meeting was to be arranged with the ghanaian parliament but, as you know, the last-minute change in my agenda, namely the sadec summit, from which i am coming, on zimbabwe, forced me to postpone it. i am convinced that the key advantage of the country strategies developed by the acp countries in the programming of their national envelopes for the 10th edf lies in the fact that they have placed governance at the centre of attention in our mutual relations. for these reasons, when allocating funds from the 10th edf, we decided to introduce a governance-related incentive tranche of almost eur 3 billion. this is not, as i have been wrongly informed, an additional conditionality, but in fact a premium whose allocation is based on the relevance, realism and ambition of the governance action plans developed by our partners. the governance action plans are attached to the strategy papers in a fully autonomous and transparent manner and are therefore accessible to all; the criteria of appropriation, efficiency and focus on results also encouraged me to call for increased use of the budget support instrument compared to conventional projects. 45% of our aid to the acp countries will be allocated through national budgets, both as sectoral budget support and as general budget support. i should like to take this opportunity to clarify some points in the report which i believe are based on misunderstandings. the report regrets in particular the lack of funds for the health and education sectors. i know that this is an old dispute between the european parliament and the commission. i can only repeat that poverty eradication and the achievement of the millennium development goals cannot be achieved exclusively through direct aid to the health and education sectors. it is clear that a large part of general or sectoral budgetary aid, when it is granted, is used to finance the treatment of, for example, teachers, to finance health clinics, to finance social services. i am convinced, but i promised to try to quantify this and thus demonstrate that at least 20% of them, of which 6% overall, are qualified and directly indicated, and the rest of course passes through direct budgetary or sectoral aid. a small remark: we do not naturally have the right to choose the areas of focus for the partners; they choose them. the choices are also made on the basis of bilateral aid. there are many countries that choose, for example, the education or health sector, but it's a good question, and so, i'll really try to objectify it and give you the results. well, you're right about the gender issues. i am the first to recognise the role of women in development and the need to promote it. but again, efficiency considerations have led the parliament, the council and the commission to recognise, with the adoption of the european consensus, that gender issues, given their challenges, have a transversal dimension and must therefore be integrated into all relevant intervention programmes, rather than being dealt with in the limited context of a particular sector. where you have my full support is for the remarks on the edf funding of the african peace facility; no one can deny the obvious links between development and security. however, the financing of peacekeeping operations should not be charged against or deducted from the resources allocated to development. so, in principle, you are right. unfortunately, you know the conditions under which this is done; finally, i believe that it is absolutely essential to focus, as you are doing, on national parliaments, to better structure and institutionalise much better the work of consultation with these bodies, and also to strengthen the role of civil society while strengthening its capacity and representativeness before making it a driving force for development and democratic openness. i thank you for this report, which i promise i will make the best use of and which i will undoubtedly draw on.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. eradicating poverty under the millennium development goals is a large and challenging task. it is not just a social task, but a wider range of content that enables the sustainable development of humanity. the effective use of the 10th european development fund can make a significant contribution to this objective. i agree with the rapporteur that education and health are among the key areas for improving the quality of life of the poorest. we must increase the share of funding for these two areas, and in a consistent manner, for the whole of the european union's development aid, including the 10th european development fund. but in the face of the global challenge posed by climate change, that's not enough. with today's economy, the increase in gross domestic product is also accompanied by an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. this is why, despite the normal economic development in some areas, the well-being of the population is deteriorating. we must define prosperity in the context of sustainable development, including in the design of all our development policies. it is therefore important that the 10th edf also reflects a balance between the economic, social and environmental components. the second area i would like to highlight is the area of gender equality. women have different roles in society. from the care and responsibility for the basic survival of the family to the transmission of knowledge and life patterns to the descendants. however, they are often disadvantaged, as are women, and do not have the opportunity to develop independently and make decisions, nor do they have equal access to services. i therefore believe that concern for equal opportunities is one of the fundamental horizontal, i repeat, horizontal components of all development policies. finally, let me say that policies can only be successful if they have the appropriate support of the population, and this is reflected in democratic and fair elections. parliaments should have a much greater role than in the past in the formulation, monitoring and implementation of development policies. both the european parliament and the parliaments of the member states and third countries.
the events in lima in april and may, along the lines of the parliamentary and governmental elections, should strengthen the southern dimension of transatlantic cooperation. it is essential that the development of the strategic partnership between latin america and the european union take place in stable economic, social and political conditions. therefore, given the many objectives that accompany our efforts, i believe it is essential to focus these efforts on two main objectives. first, to support sustained economic growth. i am pleased that latin america has been experiencing economic growth for some years. i think that latin america is facing a similar challenge to that of the european union in the early years of the community method. i am convinced that the experience of the european union would be very useful in attempts on this continent to bring about a new quality of regional and interregional cooperation and to create a new dynamic. i think the word 'dynamics' is very necessary. we know the problems that mercosur faced when it started, or is still facing. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, i have had the opportunity to witness the disappearance of the glaciers of patagonia. this is a process that is of course also known in the north of europe, and i think that there can be unpredictable developments or consequences of this rapid development, which will require much more cooperation and a lot of solidarity, and i hope that the lima summit will also be attentive to these possibilities.
on 28 april, a macedonian airline mat flight with 86 passengers on board bound for egypt was forced to land in istanbul after the greek authorities refused to allow it to fly over greek airspace. in february, the greek authorities refused to grant permission to mat to operate charter flights to corfu, citing the name of the airline: mat (macedonian airlines). the european air transport agreement, signed in june 2006, aims to establish a wider common airspace with neighbouring countries, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the greek authorities are obliged to grant the request of the mat, on the basis of an agreement. the greek blockade of mat flights is in breach of eu legislation, agreements and international aviation law. the use of the name of the airline as a basis for his decision is contrary to common european values. i wonder what the european institutions and the commission will do to put an end to this discriminatory practice against a country which is a candidate for membership of the european union, which is contrary to the free movement of persons, goods and services.
in the committee on the environment, we expected that the establishment of common standards for environmental penal policy would go beyond this compromise and cover not only community legislation but also the legislation of the member states. but the compromise reached has proved to be the limit of what is acceptable for now. it is also a major step forward in environmental protection, as it provides for the coordinated application of effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions for the serious environmental offences listed in the annex. as regards the penal policy of the states which will develop on this basis, we would like to draw attention to the rule of modern criminal law according to which the amount of the penalties threatened is not as important as the reliability of the prosecution. so that the perpetrators know that nowhere in europe will be a safe haven for them.
and we usually only make changes and take action based on solid facts. and at the climate change committee, we've collected a lot of data from a lot of scientists. however, most of this data points to changes in ecosystems as a result of anthropogenic emissions and to possible future trends. while some are concerned and use them as a threat, we must also look on the bright side. the good news is that there is still time to act. but we must act quickly, responsibly, seriously and in a coordinated way. first within the union, then globally. in international agreements, however, we can only succeed if we are also sensitive enough to the problems of third countries. these are concerned with sustainable development issues, many of which also involve poverty eradication. so a comprehensive approach requires a change in our minds, in europe's minds, because up to now we have been concerned only with development or, more importantly, with the development towards a low-carbon society. the only way to achieve international agreement is to treat emissions reduction measures and climate change adaptation measures as equals. i thank the rapporteur for her excellent report and i look forward to continuing our work in this respect until next year.
i was happy to support this report because it contained all the elements needed to resolve this problem quickly. i am glad that parliament, the commission and the council were able to reach a compromise and that we have indeed contributed to the dynamic. a different solution could mean a long delay in resolving this issue. - thank you. - thank you.
the rapporteur. − the news of the lisbon strategy has resonated strongly with european citizens. we soon realised that the targets were set too ambitiously for the time component available, but the idea was published and presented to europe and the world. we sprinkled a little bit of it in 2005, when the renewed lisbon strategy was drawn up, still ambitious but much more realistic. at that time, the commission also developed an integrated approach in the field of industrial policy. and now we're at a time where we're evaluating what's been done and where we're going. although industrial policy remains a member state competence, european action, promoting development and economic growth, has a strong impact on this area. industry promotes the creation of a knowledge society, encourages research, development and innovation, and is also a user of these services. when choosing initiatives at european level, we must take into account only the priority areas for joint action. so what really matters? what are the topics that the european parliament sees as priorities? let me say that we welcome the commission's communication on the work done, but we highlight the priority areas for our further action. the first is undoubtedly climate change and sustainable development. commitments to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions are not limited to the energy and transport sectors. they also have a significant impact on the industrial sector, without which the development of a low-carbon society is not possible. sustainable industrial development is therefore an area that requires coordination, consistency and coherence. we have to ask ourselves, what are the incentives that the industry needs to evolve into a cleaner technology? how to encourage the use of more efficient technologies? what are the right mechanisms to ensure that competition and consumer choice are not compromised? how to act across the union's borders? our vision is to reduce global warming, so merely moving higher-emission technologies to third countries is not acceptable. climate change is an opportunity, not a threat, for the european economy. the provision of natural resources and the prudent management of natural resources are certainly among the priority themes. the lack of coordination between member states can lead to local rivalries and, in the long term, to the weakening of national economies, and i therefore expect a coordinated european approach with a strong international component. we still have a lot of work to do to create a more stimulating environment for smes to operate. europe will only truly open up to them if they do not face new, different and complex procedures and obstacles in each country. i therefore expect more uniformity, harmonisation and a reduction in administrative burdens both at european and national level. i look forward to actions that will give further impetus to personal initiative. at the same time, i also expect an intervention in the european value system that would encourage greater risk-taking by european society. european society values the acquisition and creation of new knowledge, research and innovation. this must be followed by a legislative framework. we need to put in place appropriate procedures to protect intellectual property. these must be european, reasonably short and not long, the necessary financial resources must not be an obstacle to action i am talking about the so-called community patent. i have just listed a few of the priorities which were also presented as such in our report. i look forward to the debate, which i know will be rich, and i leave it to you to present your contributions, which you have also prepared in the amendments and which have greatly enriched this report. - thank you. - thank you.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to try to use the remaining two minutes to outline the development i see for the time ahead. we shall have a strong european industry in the future too. we are not in danger of losing industry in europe. i am also quite sure that european industry will continue to create growth and jobs, but not necessarily in europe. that's the problem. we are already seeing more and more large european companies generating growth and results outside europe and creating new jobs outside europe. this leads to a problem of jobs for us, and the only way to achieve a balance here and really solve the most important social question of our time, namely how to create enough good jobs for people, is indeed - as several of the speakers here have said and i fully support this - in more entrepreneurship by putting more emphasis on small and mediumsized enterprises. the key to the long-term success of our economic policy strategy is not the large industrial companies, which can help themselves quite well. the key to success is the large number of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, whose potential is far from being exploited. and that's what our politics is focused on. the second is that the competitive conditions for european industries will change very rapidly. the idea that a competitor like china can be considered for a long time a country that supplies cheap mass goods, and we produce the finer and more expensive goods, is wrong. the chinese are already producing and exporting high-quality goods, including high-tech goods. we will soon be attacked in the fields where we are particularly strong today. that means we have to do better. that is why everything that has been said here on research, development, innovation, education and training has been right. the european economy and in particular european industry will succeed if it makes the leap to a knowledge-based economy with determination. it will also succeed if it recognises that the major environmental challenges of our time, especially the energy and climate challenges, can also create economic opportunities that must be exploited.
the rapporteur. - the commissioner mentioned the positive approach. and i have to say that i believe that with our goodwill and cooperation we will be able to take this from the european to the national level, and thus create an even stronger link between the industrial policy of the union and national industrial policies. my dear colleagues, i too do not see industrial policy as protecting companies, but as a policy that we create for the good of citizens. and of course we can do this by creating the right conditions for businesses to grow, to invest, to innovate, to create more and new jobs. today, it was not mentioned, politics can also do a lot with appropriate public procurement. i also agree with the initiative that we must pay attention and pay particular attention to the balanced industrial development within the union, both in geographical terms and in terms of the scale of projects. it is true that industrial policy cannot be looked at in a narrow way, but so too must all the other conditions that condition it. i am also convinced that european industry is in good shape, but that it needs some extra impetus, and i think we are quite unanimous here that above all we want more innovation. but what is the innovation bottleneck? i think one of the bottlenecks is certainly the provision of adequate human resources. here we can do something about the values of our european society, and not just politics, but i also expect greater corporate responsibility. if they really understand that they have their share of responsibility in creating the right human resources, i think they can actually show people the possibilities that they have if they engage in activities that are more related to creating innovation. i believe, commissioner, that the cluster initiative will be a success, and i believe that the european institute of technology will be a success. i thank you for a fruitful discussion and wish you a successful work in advance. - thank you. - thank you.
i would like to clarify the comments made at the beginning of our vote when colleagues wanted to use an unplanned event at the krško nuclear power plant as a demonstration of the dangerous operation of nuclear power plants. let me say that the event was unplanned, but it was a component failure, and the plant is not shut down, but safely shut down, and it's undergoing repairs. the operation of the plant is transparent, and colleagues can also find information on the website of the republic's nuclear safety administration. let me add that the krško nuclear power plant is, by all operating indicators, one of the safest nuclear power plants in the world.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, with this text we hope to reverse the trend of producing more waste than we recycle. it is the result of several years of debates and taking account of the reality of two major groups of member states as regards waste management systems: recycling states and landfilling states. the achieved compromise must be seen in this light. for the first time, prevention and recycling have been given a central role in the directive. furthermore, the text includes the necessary dynamics to adapt higher targets as well as targets for new waste streams it is a carefully balanced compromise: achievable and realistic. amendments: we do not consider that in their entirety they endanger the general agreement. with regard to by-products – the article in the body of the directive and the article on end of waste – most critics fear sham recovery. as the issue is not internationally agreed, the danger is real. it must, therefore, be made clear that the commission will use the guidelines from february 2007 in order to prevent this. i would much appreciate it if mr dimas would give us today an assurance that a substance or object will be shipped as a by-product outside the community only once the conditions of article 4(1) are met in the community. similarly for end of waste. when certain waste ceases to be waste, the substance or object resulting from it can be shipped as such outside the community only once the conditions of article 5 are met in the community. it would make it easier for many meps to vote for the compromise. to conclude, i wish to extend many thanks to the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for fruitful cooperation to the benefit of the citizens of europe.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs on a job well done. europe started liberalising the electricity and gas markets a decade ago and we are now the closest to achieving the very results we have long wanted. the proposed measures put the consumer at the centre, who will be able to choose between suppliers in a well-functioning internal energy market and choose the best one at his own discretion. i expect that an open and transparent internal market will also provide market access for smaller companies, thus increasing competitiveness, improving conditions for investment in power plants and transmission networks, increasing security of supply and promoting sustainable development. the main precondition for a well-functioning internal market is a single set of clear rules applicable to all market participants. the different models in the member states are certainly not conducive to the objective pursued. let me take this opportunity to congratulate the slovenian presidency. it has, in fact, devoted itself entirely to coordination and compromise and, despite the strong national interests of the member states, has reached agreement in the council. the path to compromise is not easy in the european parliament either. pressures, including from the member states, are high. i hope that the european parliament will approve the compromise we have worked out in the itre committee. despite the differences between the positions of the council and parliament, i believe that the compromise proposed by the european parliament is a good basis for further negotiations and coordination between the european institutions. finally, i hope that the french presidency will also make every effort to coordinate its work, to seek compromise and to put its own interests completely aside in order to achieve the objectives of the third liberalisation package. i expect the european commission to show the same commitment to finding a common solution in time. and in that sense i am grateful to commissioner piebalgs, who said at the beginning that we must reach a common agreement by the end of this year. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the irish people's decision was democratic and we respect it and we democrats don't need to be told to respect it. there is no doubt about it, but it is not enough to respect it, we must also be aware of the consequences and understand, in ireland and in the european context, why the majority in one of the most successful member states of the european union turned against the treaty signed last year by the heads of state, including ireland, or the governments, with the aim of working together effectively to meet the demanding new challenges, whether it be the environment, energy, migration or health. i agree that time should be taken to consider, but that does not apply to further ratification. further ratification does not require any further reflection, the process must continue. and it's not just about ireland and the whole of the current european union, it's also about the future of europe, which is not yet fully united. in this context, i congratulate the slovenian presidency on all the successes in bringing the western balkan countries closer together, in particular the stabilisation and association agreements with serbia and bosnia and herzegovina. it is there that we must welcome every step forward in the spirit of the european perspective and it is there that we must eliminate all sources of conflict development that the european perspective makes possible. and i don't recommend any fatigue here. i hope that the victory of the pro-european forces in macedonia will help the council to decide whether to open negotiations with this country, which is already a candidate and has been waiting in the waiting room for a long time. i also hope that the new macedonian authorities, who have been given a high mandate, will use this new confidence to promote a policy that will strengthen the process towards opening negotiations.
this discussion is not a new discussion. we have already had a similar debate when the voters in france and the netherlands rejected the constitutional treaty and when the commission and the council gave assurances that the ratification process would go ahead, but then both of them, together with our parliament, succumbed to the temptation to interrupt the ratification process. i would like to make a plea today that, while respecting the decision of the irish voters, we do not stop this ratification process this time and we carry it through to the end. i think that in this case it will be easier to find solutions to accept the lisbon treaty than to give in to the temptation again and, because of one referendum, to interrupt the process. and secondly, something we must be crystal clear about: there is a deep divide in the perception of the meaning of the european union between the political elite at home, in national circles, and in the european union and among the majority of our citizens. and here we must ask ourselves whether the parliament, the council and the european commission can do more to fill this communication gap and to re-enchant our people with the european idea. i think that, while welcoming the plans of the slovenian presidency for tomorrow's council, i would suggest, among other things, that this issue should also be discussed on a new communication strategy for dialogue between citizens and the european union not only in the light of the conclusion of the ratification of the lisbon treaty, but also in the light of other matters. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the rapidly rising cost of fuel is halting traffic across europe and the world. the hauliers are demonstrating furiously, the fishermen are demanding compensation, and the traffic, or transportation, is getting more and more expensive. the cost literally stops the transport of goods. the biggest horror of all is that the cost of producing oil at these prices is actually minimal. the production costs are literally negligible. the free movement of persons is the essence of the free movement of persons and the precondition for the free movement of goods. the cost of fuel is a particular threat to air transport, which is the most cost-vulnerable. this is particularly true for low-cost carriers, which have enabled new categories of citizens to discover europe and the world. the crisis of low-cost carriers that could hit us in the fall will not only affect tourism, it will affect the airline industry, the financial industry and, consequently, the entire economy. in such circumstances, the european union must demonstrate that it understands the challenges and responds to them in an operational manner. in these circumstances, appropriate concerted action can strengthen the reputation of the institutions of the european union and calm the market situation. the financial and economic crisis is an opportunity for the european union to prove itself to be a useful, necessary and effective framework for our economies, and above all that the european institutions are the right and effective tool for our economies.
rapporteur. − mr president, flavourings are defined as the addition of odour or taste to meals and are mostly a mixture of a large number of aromatic preparations. the european parliament insisted on amendments which it believed would be the basis for a balanced and enforceable regulation taking into account scientific and technological developments. it is known that the council and parliament took a different stance on the issue of herbs and spices. parliament believed that it has not yet been proven beyond reasonable doubt that prepared food in which certain undesirable compounds are naturally present has the same toxicological potential as when they are tested in isolation. herbs and spices have been used since time immemorial without known adverse effects. as the rapporteur, i was not seeking complete exemptions for herbs and spices from the limits set out in annex iii. appropriate exemptions were requested to be granted only where scientific evidence is not complete and, therefore, possibly the situation is not yet mature enough to be harmonised at european level. the second-reading compromise consisted, therefore, of appropriate guarantees given for some herbs and spices that exempted them from limits set out in annex iii. this helps to maintain the limits as proposed by the council: 4 out of 11 purified active principles and in respect of some 30 out of 40 food categories. this is the most that could have been achieved and i, therefore, ask the european parliament to vote for it. as an individual mep, however, i still have some concerns that i hope the commission will take care of during the implementation stage. the compromise in the footnote does not apply when herbs and spices appear together with flavourings in compound food. the unintended effect of this could be that the food industry would move away from herbs and spices because extracts and flavourings are much easier to standardise. due to the varying levels of active principles in herbs and spices, food manufacturers would have to vary their recipes on a batch-by-batch basis, and this would be very costly. the herbs and spices industry could even be wiped off the european market. this must not happen because european consumers do not want such a limitation on their right to choose as well as for reasons of public health. the consumer would in this case paradoxically consume higher levels of flavourings, which, according to the so-called purification hierarchy, are closer to the undesirable active principles than herbs and spices. i would appreciate it if the commissioner could reassure me that possible negative developments will be properly monitored and stopped if necessary.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as regards the regulation on additives, my group welcomed the proposal to modernise and harmonise european legislation and supported the rapporteur mrs westlund in her efforts to secure sustainable protection of consumers and their health, in particular the vulnerable groups of the population. it is a fact of life that food manufacturers respond to the growing demand by steady development of new products, and their diversification is achieved mostly by adding additives. the legislation on foods should be proportionate and balanced while serving public health and guaranteeing a level playing field for food producers. this principle is simple, but obviously there are many interpretations of it. where can we achieve a substantial gain in terms of public health but at the same time not hamper the technological development of european food production? we agreed on sound amendments i think – aiming to safeguard the interests of consumers, in particular with exact labelling – but we wanted to contribute to raising consumer awareness too. i am convinced that informed, attentive consumers can influence very much the production of prepared food in the european union. we supported the amendments aimed at strengthening the commission’s proposal, particularly on three points: involvement in the authorisation procedure of additives, transparency of the authorisation procedure and specific conditions for authorisation.
mr president, in addition to what has already been said today, i wish to reiterate that flavourings have considerable market value. when harmonising national rules aiming at securing the microbiological safety of prepared food, european legislators must be aware of the sensibility of the area and try to avoid distortions of the market. i hope that this will be the case, and i thank commissioner vassiliou for the statement she made today. we have come a long way with the council and the commission by clearing up contentious areas, excluding as many ambiguities as possible and reaching the second-reading agreement. apart from food safety and the strengthening of the internal market, other consumer interests also needed to be taken into account. prominent among them was the desire for food to be as natural as possible. it is not necessarily the case that all flavourings are safe from a toxicological point of view and, at the same time, beneficial to consumers. parliament wanted to highlight in particular the right of the consumer to choose. in the procedure for approval of flavourings, ‘reasonable technological need’, for example, tackles other european strategies, such as the fight against obesity, since the addition of excessively potent flavourings can mask the poor quality of prepared food. i think that this has been made clear enough in the recitals. concluding, i wish to thank all who were involved in the work on the food improvement agents package and helped us to make practicable and enforceable regulations.
in the energy sector, we are faced with three main challenges: the environmental challenge, the challenge of ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy and the challenge of a secure and reliable energy supply. a basic and necessary condition for an adequate response to these challenges is that players play by uniform rules in a transparent internal market. of course, there is a difference between the electrical field and the gas field. in the gas sector, we are as much as 60% dependent on imports, and by 2030, according to some predictions, 80%. we import 40% of our gas from russia alone, and some member states import all of their gas from russia, so they are 100% dependent. this is why it is all the more important to ensure that the united europe is a competent and equal partner for russia. in the energy sector, we are training more independent players through liberalisation. as europe is already facing a major challenge in providing a critical mass of skilled human resources, the concern for professionals will be all the greater as further liberalisation takes place. this is particularly true for smaller member states with relatively weak energy companies. the additional challenge is to maintain political responsibility for the welfare of the country despite the changes in the energy markets in europe. skilled human resources are also needed to exploit the opportunities under the set plan. in the last four years alone, we have received several mechanisms to promote research and development in the field of energy. i therefore expect the commission to pay particular attention to the compatibility of the various contracts. the slovenian presidency has made a great effort to advance the third liberalisation package. i hope that the french presidency will continue its work with the same enthusiasm.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the space policy will play a special role in this six-month period, and it is one of the priorities of the french presidency. the commission very much welcomes this. of course, everyone here knows that space issues are fascinating. we are seeing this at the moment with the phoenix mars probe's scientific adventure, or a few months ago with the successful extension of the international space station by the european component of the columbus laboratory. but i must also say that beyond the very big things, space technology provides more and more of the tools we need to successfully implement our policy objectives. i would remind you of environmental policy, transport policy, agricultural policy, but this also applies to the major areas of foreign policy such as development policy, humanitarian aid or international disaster relief, and of course - and here i am addressing a subject which mr von wogau has successfully kept on the agenda for many years now, for which the commission is very grateful to him - the question of space policy and european security. the importance of applications in space for european security and defence policy was outlined by the commission in its communication on european space policy last year. i agree with the rapporteur that this is a very close link. the commission therefore welcomes this report on space and security and the proposals and clarifications it contains on individual initiatives and measures. i would like to go into some of the points: the report highlights that the european union is providing more than eur 5 billion for space projects under the current financial perspective. the vast majority of this is being allocated to applications within the gmes system, which will very soon have its own, and i think very attractive, brand name, similar to galileo. that will happen in september. the potential applications of gmes are also of great importance for european security and defence policy. i would like to make it clear, in order to avoid repeating past mistakes, that gmes has a multi-use potential which will not be hidden, and that this multi-use potential should and must be used wisely to avoid duplication of effort and unnecessary costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's space industry is competitive and technologically advanced. the next point is of particular importance to the commission, also in the light of the experience with galileo: to ensure the long-term provision of gmes services, we need a permanent operational financial base. we don't have any today. we are still in the development stage and we are funding gmes from research and development funds. but very soon we will enter the operational phase, and then we will also have to be ready to draw the necessary consequences from what we have decided together so far, not only through the decisions on space policy but also through the european budget. it is not very sensible to spend many billions on developing a technology and then not to fund it when it is ready for use. if we want to have a long-term operational financial base - and i say this again without reservation - then it is necessary that we also include the space projects with relevance to security and defence. the second point is that we agree that there is a significant intersection between space and security and defence policy. synergies between space and civil and military security should therefore be exploited to the full, not only in the technological but also in the operational field. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the report calls for improved cooperation between the pillars involved, and thus between the commission, the council, the european defence agency and the european union satellite centre. finally, i would like to stress that we must take account of the whole spectrum of the issue of space and its connection with the european security and defence policy, without compromising the treaty foundations. the commission would never do that, since it clearly states that we cannot finance european defence measures or measures of a military nature from the community budget. the commission expressly welcomes the fact that the report also addresses foreign and security policy aspects in a narrower sense, such as the development of a code of conduct for activities in outer space or the potential of satellites to verify international arms control treaties. the exclusively peaceful use of outer space is a central concern of our policy. the european union - and i can refer to several resolutions of the european parliament - therefore supports any initiative to prevent space weapons. the commission therefore welcomes the intention of the european space agency to develop an instrument called space situational awareness, which would not only verify compliance with such a contract but also monitor the safety of our satellites. how we can coordinate this with community activities will be discussed in a few days' time at a meeting of space ministers with the french presidency and the commission in kourou, our european spaceport, in french guiana later this month. ladies and gentlemen, the report 'space and security' highlights the security challenges facing europe in the coming years. we should see this as an opportunity to make europe more capable of action and more competitive. an innovative european space policy and a common european security and defence policy can go a long way.
preparatory opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − the european space policy has a double significance: firstly, because it contributes to better security, and secondly, because it contributes to the achievement of the development goals enshrined in the lisbon strategy. this aspect in particular has received more attention in the itre committee. we are very pleased that the lisbon treaty, within the chapter on research and technological development, provides the legal basis for a european space policy. the proposals for a european space programme to be drawn up by the commission will be examined and decided upon with care and interest. we must also define our relationship with the european space agency accordingly. i am also very pleased that the relevant regulation was signed today, which also provides a practical launch for the egnos and galileo programmes. the experience of these two programmes will be successfully used in the negotiation of the management of the other programmes. now we must also implement, implement and prepare an environment that will allow the efficient use of new systems and the greatest possible wealth of applications without being too narrowly limited in advance. the space is our common good, not just the property of one country or community, and we must therefore take the international framework into account when drawing up future european legislation. i am referring to the existing united nations treaties and also to the principles of space law. finally, i would also like to thank the rapporteur on cooperative cooperation for taking account of the views we had in the itre committee, and i am sure that we can achieve a lot with this kind of work.
mr president, the issue of environmental protection and the increased energy needs linked to climate change are challenges that require a responsible approach from all policy-makers and go beyond national borders and national interests. the construction of offshore gas terminals in enclosed seas such as the adriatic sea is particularly sensitive. in the gulf of tržačka, plans are underway to build a land-based and an offshore gas terminal, which is to be built just five miles off the slovenian coast, just opposite the largest tourist area in front of piran. if the italian government dares, it can try to put it in the venetian lagoon, but it would not succeed because it would be opposed by the whole civilized world. residents have the right to oppose such a facility, and politicians must respect their will and make up for the democratic deficit in the european union. too many times we've been too irresponsible with the environment to allow ourselves to do something like this. and that is what the italian authorities must be told and communicated here in the european parliament.
mr frança's report initially seemed to be more of a legal-technical issue than a substantive one. but it has turned out that there are countries among the community's members which do not know this legal institution at all. this report also highlights the differences between anglo-saxon and continental criminal law. it is therefore logical that some colleagues will oppose this report. of course, this does not mean that the subject is unimportant. in the group of the european people's party/european democrats we believe that the right to a trial is a fundamental right, and therefore a fundamental political right. however, there are cases where the accused was not present at the trial, and the court has nevertheless pronounced judgment. judgments handed down in absentia in one member state have so far not been complied with in another member state. this framework decision, however, ensures the enforceability of these judgments in other countries of the european union, subject to certain conditions, of course, among which, in our view, the key is to ensure that the accused has been summoned to appear in court in an appropriate manner and has not appeared in court despite the judicial authorities' invitation. the avoidance of justice is common and the european union should not allow a person who has been legally convicted in one country to roam freely in other member states. in the epp/de's view, the rapporteur has succeeded in reconciling the amendments and has produced a balanced report, for which i thank him. another point: it is right to ensure the conditions for a fair trial, but we also provide for the victims of crime.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr brejc, for his work on this dossier. this is an important step towards making full use of the technical tools available to secure our external borders. the use of the visa information system (vis) is of great importance for the effectiveness of external border controls. the vis establishes a reliable link between the visa holder, the visa and the passport, in order to avoid the use of false identities. these benefits will only be fully realised with the use of biometrics. the legislative instrument on the agenda will, once formally adopted, establish common rules to ensure the efficient and harmonised use of the vis at our external borders. without a common regime, these border crossing points where the vis is not systematically used could well be exploited by illegal immigrants and criminals. the amendment of the schengen borders code establishes this common regime. i can therefore fully support the compromise reached and congratulate the european parliament and the council on the agreement at first reading.
the reporter. - mr. commissioner, i thank you for your kind words. the european parliament shall be involved in the co-decision procedure on the amendment of the regulation concerning the use of the visa information system. the proposal for amendments to this visa system proposed by the commission initially provided for fairly thorough controls on the entry of third-country nationals requiring a visa. it was therefore not only a matter of the normal procedure of verifying the identity of a person and documents, but also of taking fingerprints. the regulation does contain all the search criteria and conditions for access by the competent authorities to identity data when carrying out checks at external border crossing points, and so on, without repeating all those matters. under this regulation, the border guard has access to the visa information system, where he can of course check all the data on the traveller at the border, including fingerprints. the proposed system, i.e. systematic fingerprinting of third-country nationals at each and every entry into the schengen area, would certainly lead to longer waiting times at border crossing points, especially during the tourist season and at the beginning and end of the holidays. as europe is a global economic power and also an attractive tourist destination for third country nationals, who naturally require a visa to enter, i believe that the regulation should, or should have, been relaxed accordingly. that's why i suggested a random search and fingerprinting at the border crossing. i wanted to point out that the fingerprints of the visa holder are taken first during the visa application process and then again when entering the schengen area, so that they can be compared to see if they are the same person. i think that this kind of action, or this kind of hard provision, is excessive, because in fact we have no data or estimates on the extent of visa fraud. furthermore, fingerprinting completely uncontested persons is pointless and time-consuming. despite the special entry lines for eu citizens, there would be very long queues at the external borders during holidays and vacations, waiting for everyone, including eu citizens and, of course, visa holders. we have reached agreement in this parliament relatively quickly on certain derogations from such hard provisions, and after two trilogues a compromise was reached with the council and the commission. in the libe committee, the compromise proposal was adopted by a large majority, with no votes against and only two abstentions. in short, the current regulation is, i think, a good one, because it ensures smooth border crossing, even when there are a lot of people waiting in line at the border, the policeman will, at his discretion, in accordance with the regulation, and if all the conditions are met, choose to make a random check. the decision to conduct a random search is not just a matter for the police, but above all for the border authorities. i think we have ensured adequate safety standards and at the same time allowed passengers to cross the border in the shortest possible time. let me take this opportunity to thank the representatives of the council and the commission for their excellent cooperation, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, among whom i would like to thank mr cashman in particular for his series of good ideas and for his active search for compromise.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank your rapporteur, mr brejc, for having kept to the main objective of securing the frontiers, without forgetting that these frontiers must be sufficiently fluid. i believe that the two can be reconciled, and you are doing so in this text, which is the fruit of an excellent compromise. i would add, echoing what mr weber has just said, that we do indeed have a problem, namely that of opening europe up to all those who regularly enter and leave it, while at the same time being relatively attentive to all those who try - it must be said - to cheat and want to abuse the rules. we must therefore take account of this double requirement of openness and at the same time of regularity and respect for the law. i thank parliament for allowing us to move forward in this frontier security while providing the necessary flexibility.
the reporter. - i would just comment on two conflicting views: derogation as a general rule and strict compliance with the rules laid down in the schengen code. it is this compromise that we have reached that makes it possible to cross the border sensibly, even when the traffic is really heavy. imagine that at one border crossing with, say, croatia and slovenia, fifty, sixty thousand people arrive at the border during the holiday season, ten thousand of them with visas. if i had to fingerprint tens of thousands of people, then even those who can cross the border without formalities, eu citizens, would have to wait a day or two. so let's be realistic, create a solid system of controls, but also reasonable measures to ensure a smooth border crossing. let's not forget that the regulation is very clear, and i quote, "...that an officer has... therefore, in all cases where there is doubt about the identity of the visa holder and the authenticity of the visa, the border guard will take the fingerprints of the traveller and check the visa sticker numbers and the traveller's fingerprints in the vis. "so in all cases where there is the slightest doubt, the policeman will do it, but in all other cases, when there is a really big, big crowd at the border, he will act according to the regulation that allows some deviation. we can't build a new, i don't know how to say it, information police berlin wall. the european union is and should remain a global power and should continue to be friendly to its citizens and to those who come to it. i would like to thank mr cashman and all the other members of the committee and the commissioner for their patience in drawing up this compromise.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank mr parish for raising this question, because it is a question to which the commission has given a lot of consideration and considers important, and it is indeed something which preoccupies us. the european commission – as mr parish said – has asked efsa to provide an opinion on food safety, animal health, animal welfare and the environmental implications of the use of live animal clones. the final opinion was adopted on 15 july this year, and the commission is now evaluating the necessary steps to be taken. this opinion refers to uncertainties in the risk assessment due to the limited number of studies available. it also refers to the fact that the health and welfare of a significant proportion of clones have been found to be adversely affected, often severely, with a fatal outcome. the commission is aware that, even though the efficiency of animal cloning has improved in recent years, adverse health affects on animal health and welfare still occur today. there are indications that mortality and morbidity rates in clones after birth are higher than in sexually-reproduced animals. however, most surviving clones are normal and healthy, as determined by psychological measurements as well as by behaviour and clinical examinations. the commission closely follows the scientific developments in this area. in 2004 the commission also financed a pan-european research project called cloning in public, addressing ethical, legal and other societal aspects of farm animal cloning. the project was coordinated by the danish centre for bioethics and risk assessment and aimed to promote public debate on the issue of biotechnology. as far as the involvement of the public is concerned, in autumn 2007 the commission launched a public consultation on the ethics of animal cloning for food supply, and in september 2007 it organised an open round table on the same topic with representatives from academia, industry, ngos, civil society, international organisations, industry etc. in order to increase public participation, the round table was also broadcast on the internet, and its proceedings have been published. last but not least, the commission has recently launched a eurobarometer survey on consumers’ attitudes to cloning for food production. its purpose is to ask the public about their opinion and their awareness regarding cloning and food derived from the offspring of cloned animals. the results will be made available very shortly. the commission takes ethical considerations fully into account when dealing with sensitive issues such as cloning. the commission has given its attention to the ethics of animal cloning since 1997, when the group of advisers to the european commission on the ethical implications of biotechnology issued an opinion on the ethics of cloning. due to the state of the art of technology at that time, the opinion did not address the use of cloning for food purposes. it is for this reason that the commission asked the european group on ethics in science and new technologies, the independent advisory body to the commission in this field, to give an opinion on the ethical aspects of animal cloning for food supply. their opinion was published in january this year. considering the current level of suffering and health problems of surrogate dams and animal clones, the european group on ethics expressed doubts as to whether cloning animals for food supply is ethically justified. it advocated that at the moment there are no convincing arguments to justify the production of food from clones and their offspring. the commission is currently examining the concerns expressed by the group. under international rules, restrictions to imports of products must be based on legitimate concerns, not be discriminatory, and be proportionate to the objective pursued. according to global trade rules, imports of food products from third countries might be suspended if they present a serious threat to animal or public health. on the basis of the studies conducted and the opinion of efsa, the commission will consider whether restrictions must be imposed. i am sure this will be done very shortly.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, from experience with other issues that tackle food safety, as well as raising adequate questions linked to the relations between humans as the dominant species and the animals, we know that public perception depends very much on specific knowledge of the matter. consumers are increasingly sensitive with regard to the suffering of, and injuries to, farm animals. therefore, they have to be properly informed about the risks posed by the cloning of animals. an educational campaign is needed, explaining to them what an incredibly wasteful process cloning has been so far. it was expected that efsa would not find clear safety concerns related to food products from clones of farm animals, compared with conventionally-bred animals. however, efsa also underlined in its recent report that the practice has major repercussions on the health and welfare of animals. the issue raises societal problems, which advise us strongly to ban animal cloning for food, as well as the import of cloned animals and their offspring.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - i would like to congratulate mrs weisgerber on her excellent report and also express my satisfaction at the fact that we have reached a high level of agreement with the council so quickly. this regulation puts us firmly on the side of a new energy and environmental policy, which will certainly have positive effects on public health. i agree with the commissioner that we must seize this opportunity. and this regulation is one of the opening moves, it's part of the answer to the energy and environmental challenges of the modern age, in which hydrogen plays one of the key roles. we are not just talking about hydrogen, but hydrogen, not just individual member states, but the whole of the european union. it is very important that we now take care of the whole implementation context with the right dynamics, including everything that our citizens think about, starting with infrastructure. in this extremely challenging energy situation, the dynamics of development and, in this context, the question of the rapid development of new technologies is of great importance. i see the enormous potential of this new technology in that it allows decentralized production of hydrogen and that it is possible, in conjunction with solar technology, to actually greatly diversify this production, to reduce dependence on the energy carriers known so far. and here, i think the commission could play a successful role as a promoter and accelerator of developments in this direction.
the two framework reports are two more bricks in the mosaic of a wide range of regulations, directives and other documents concerning the fight against terrorism. i support both reports because i believe that we need both framework decisions and because a reasonable balance has been reached between measures to ensure the safety and freedom of the individual. i think that the commission and the council should pay more attention to the following issues in the future. first, the hypertrophy of the rules on terrorism and the need to ensure greater transparency in those rules. in this area too, we have unnecessary and unenviable regulations or provisions which should be reconsidered or, if appropriate, eliminated. secondly, the usefulness of the rules and thus the effective fight against terrorism depend not only on good legislation but on the effective cooperation of the member states and their police and security authorities. we haven't reached the right level of cooperation here. the supervisory mechanisms available to the european union and the member states should be reviewed and compared. particular attention should be paid to the phenomena of loss and misuse of databases, and it would also be essential to inform each other of this. and fourth, we should do more to raise public awareness so that people can better understand why certain measures are needed. congratulations to both of you.
the social picture of europe has changed. we are facing new challenges which require an update of the european social model. the health picture in europe is also changing. some diseases are advancing rapidly, and so are the costs of running health systems. however, citizens face wide disparities in the quality of healthcare services between and within countries. the odds of surviving cancer vary by as much as a few tenths of a percent between countries. i welcome the european commission's ambition to give health a high priority in its renewed social agenda. at the same time, i regret that it was only the decision of the european court of justice that triggered increased attention to citizens' rights in relation to health. i speak as a cancer survivor myself, and i know cases where patients have been told in one place, "we can't help you anymore", and in another place, those patients have found effective help. the right to move means the right to choose. the choice leads to more competition, which leads to higher quality, possibly also lower costs. i am convinced that the patient mobility directive will be a boost for europe and will have many positive consequences. our common goal is health for all. the crossborder healthcare directive will undoubtedly bring us closer to citizens, who are not so much interested in the debate on competences as in the shortest possible path to health. of course, the road with the clear signs. the most successful european policy is the one that citizens feel in their pockets, as was the case with the telecommunications roaming directive. the crossborder healthcare directive will not, at least initially, have a direct impact on citizens' pockets, but will give them more choice for the same money. that's not a bad feeling either, especially when it comes to health.
the reporter. - this report is for all patients, sick and healthy. health is one of the key social and political issues on which the future of the european union depends. what health means for the economy is clearly stated in the lisbon strategy. health is one of the most important values in people's lives. despite advances in curative medicine, this value is increasingly under threat because of worrying health trends, especially the increase in cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and obesity. in addition, new challenges are being posed by ageing populations, climate change, rising food prices and globalisation. there's talk of the possibility of pandemics and bioterrorism. the world health organisation predicts an epidemic of cancer in the coming years, and on the other hand, the mobility requirements for patients and healthcare workers are increasing. health care systems, or their treasuries, are under increasing pressure. in recent years, the cost of medicines has risen faster than the total cost of healthcare, raising concerns among citizens about the equity of healthcare and the sustainability of health systems. the public is concerned about whether there will be health for all. citizens are not interested in a debate about competence, they are interested in the best path to health. they are also concerned about the significant disparities in healthcare between member states as well as within them. as regards cancer, the differences in survival rates between the new and old member states are such that one can rightly speak of a medical iron curtain. all of this is why health should be placed high on the european political agenda. we're not talking about a point of difference, but a point called "survival". a strategic and joint approach is therefore necessary. at the end of 2007, the european commission adopted a health strategy entitled 'together for health', which stems from the commitment of the member states and the community to respect common values and health policy principles in ensuring the conditions for the exercise of citizens' rights and responsibilities in the care of their own health throughout their life, their active involvement in decision-making processes and the adaptation of healthcare to the needs of patients, the reduction of health inequalities between social groups, member states and regions within them, taking into account investments in health as a condition for economic development and the consistent integration of health into policy at all levels. it is clear that a long-term strategic and integrated approach is really needed in the field of health, requiring coordinated cooperation between all the main actors within the member states and at european union level. to improve cooperation, it is necessary to explore forms of interinstitutional cooperation that could enhance the effectiveness of joint efforts. a key strategic shift is needed in the area of disease prevention. despite the fact that we have been stressing the importance of disease prevention for many years, only 3% of the health budgets of the member states are dedicated to this, and we know that it is precisely through preventive policies that we can achieve much better results, since 40% of diseases are linked to a wrong lifestyle and a third of cancers are preventable. one of the main messages of this report is to call on the commission to draw up an ambitious plan of preventive measures for the whole five-year period. i thank the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and all those who have contributed to our joint development of a vision of what needs to be done in the future for more health.
the reporter. - mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for such a lively and rich debate. i'm glad to see that almost all of your speeches came up with three key words for the day: one is togetherness, two is inequality, and three is prevention. together, they mean more cooperation, both at member state and european union level, more partnerships, including regional and local communities, and more complementarity. i agree with all those who have said that the competence of the member states should not be an excuse for not doing together what the countries cannot do alone, and these challenges are increasing. the fact that there are so many inequalities, which we have pointed out, means that we have a low mobility of knowledge. if there is a few tenths of a percent lower survival rate for cancer in one country, it means that the knowledge that is available in another country, perhaps even in a neighboring country, has not reached that country. and we have to achieve some dynamics here based on the already known, already available knowledge, and of course the first message is, the first advice is: use the knowledge that is available, share good practices. and as far as the dynamics go, i would say this: diseases are dynamic, and so we need political dynamics, and we need political innovation. i would say that the white paper is a very good framework for what we want to do and it is not the purpose of the white paper to cover all the specifics that are covered in various other documents, including other resolutions, but to give a framework and, as someone said, for the first time we have a really comprehensive framework, we are talking about values, we are talking about indicators, we are talking about strategy and we are talking about actions and on this basis we can work forward. i would like to say this in conclusion: i have a certain problem with the amendments tabled by the socialist group, namely that it tabled more or less six amendments which were rejected at the envi and i find it difficult to change the arguments used at the envi for a different position and i cannot support these amendments now because we are in plenary and because this subject has already been covered in other resolutions. we will get an unbalanced picture if these amendments are adopted, because other categories of the population will not be treated with such attention. it's not just for the workers, which we always are, but it's also for the pensioners, it's for the schoolchildren, and of course i stick to the argument i made in envi.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to inform you why i, as rapporteur, put seven minuses against the amendments of the socialist group. it was a question of my credibility because six of those seven amendments were refused in the envi committee three weeks ago. there were no votes against, and i see no new reasons to change my opinion on this. the other reason is that we adopted a resolution on safety at work in january and i think that this subject is well covered there. i have no problem with the contents, but i do not think there is any need to repeat some elements in different resolutions. in any case, in order to have an appropriate structure to the text, i would like to table the following oral amendment, in agreement with the shadow rapporteurs. amendments 1, 3 and 4 are to be moved after paragraph 32, amendment 5 after recital m, and amendment 6 after recital q. this is just the replacement of that.
i'd rather talk about how the divorce rate is falling in europe. unfortunately, that is not the case, and we need to talk about how to improve the situation of those who are the weakest link in this chain, namely the situation of children. unfortunately, they are the biggest victims, especially in countries where there are huge judicial backlogs. like in my country, slovenia, where children suffer a lot before the court even decides who the children will live with. and with it comes great family tragedy and the severe psychological consequences for many children. i know of a number of such cases myself and i hope that this joint directive will also help to ensure that this is also regulated in the individual member states.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. many committees participated in the erasmus mundus programme. the rapporteur therefore had a difficult time finding compromises. we in the european people's party/european democrats have always advocated that the programme be adopted as soon as possible, at first reading, as this is the only way we can start implementing it in the new year. the exchange of knowledge and scientific achievements and the encouragement of young researchers to collaborate are also necessary for the progress of the world. this programme promotes excellence, gender balance and equitable participation of persons with special needs. while we want to attract young researchers from third countries, we must not encourage brain drain from countries that already lack the skilled manpower for their own needs and poverty reduction. all too often, we give with one hand and take with the other. as in other cases, the epp/ed programme is committed to reducing administrative barriers and improving the visa system so that excellent students and scientists can devote themselves to studying and researching in their field rather than in the field of removing administrative barriers to even start studying.
the return of refugees is of the utmost importance to every country in the western balkans, and i therefore wholeheartedly support the amendments of the rapporteur and anne ibrisagic concerning the return of refugees to posavina. the same applies to the return of refugees from all communities to all other parts of bosnia and herzegovina. but for these calls and efforts to be effective, we also need additional measures, in particular foreign investment to create new jobs. too many times, refugees and idps return temporarily with only one aim: to sell their property and go elsewhere. they leave also because they do not have adequate health protection or pensions and the political conditions are tense in their place of return. they also leave because of the delay in depoliticising and reforming the police and the lack of general security. those responsible for war crimes must be removed and barred from working in the police. hence the alde initiative to declare 11july an international day of remembrance for the victims of genocide from srebrenica. the draft text was delivered last week by the president of the mothers of enclaves of srebrenica and žepa association. this is something we really need for their relief.
respected ! i too will start by saying that the fact that women earn on average 15 percent less than men and that in the private sector the gap is as much as 25 percent is unacceptable. i would like to stress that women, for example in my country, slovenia, are not lagging behind men in terms of education, and that action is therefore needed. but many people are probably asking why action is needed at european level, why not leave the problem to the member states to solve. one reason is that the gap is narrowing too slowly, and the other is that in most member states there are too few women in politics to be able to adequately highlight gender issues. a minority can only convincingly raise its concerns if it has at least a 30% presence in a particular institution, such as a parliament or government. and there are many european countries that do not exceed the 30% share of women in politics. the average share of women in member states' governments and their share in parliaments is below 30%. and in the european parliament, we are 31%, which is just a little bit more than the critical mass to successfully highlight gender-related issues. so we have to warn them from here. the second question i asked myself was whether the measures proposed were not too revolutionary and went beyond the principle of subsidiarity. in answering this question, i also agree with the rapporteur that the legislation is not effective enough and that we can and must act. our proposals must be bold, so that they provide a good starting point for the formulation of real policies. i support her proposal that the commission should prepare a new legislative proposal by 31 december of the following year at the latest to revise the existing legislation on equal pay for men and women, and i congratulate her on a well-drafted report.
i want to talk about the commission's planned measures, which i have read about in the media and which have also been brought to my attention by citizens. the purpose of the tax was to finance the purchase of new cars by citizens. such a measure would be, in effect, a consumer promotion, a direct aid to the automobile industry and contrary to our environmental policies. i'm also curious to know who's gonna take care of the car dismantling and conversion. i therefore call on the commission to continue to promote the development and production of clean vehicles, as it has done so far, to make the switchover gradual and based on environmental criteria, and to provide citizens with clear information on the compatibility of the recovery plan with our environmental and climate policies.
it is good that we had at that time a very ambitious presidency that was really working to find an agreement on the climate and energy package. however, i have doubts about the appropriateness of the procedure for agreement at first reading, because with such a large and demanding document there is a question of transparency, there is a question of the appropriate representation of the majority opinion in parliament, and this of course also entails democracy. so i would like you to think twice before you confirm that we will deal with a document with a first reading agreement. there would be nothing wrong with completing the normal first reading in december and then having a second reading by the end of the mandate and finding the appropriate agreement with the council. it is therefore not surprising that we have not talked much about the details in this debate, because we members do not even know them well. i would like to speak personally about the use of funds from the auctions. here i think we have to take a few principles into account, namely that we absolutely have to use the funds only to address environmental and climate challenges, that we have to use them for mitigation and adaptation, that we have to use them for developing technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and are not yet commercial, that is, also for ccs pilot projects. this is not only important for the european union, but also for third countries, such as china. then, we have to use it for actions within the european union and for cooperation with third countries, and when we talk about the scale, then we have to take into account our responsibility for global emissions, which is currently 13 to 14 percent, and we have to add our historical responsibility for emissions. and we need to use the funds for existing mechanisms - so let's not set up some new funds. i want to thank the entire negotiating team and let them know that this deal is our good travel companion for the poznan negotiations next week.
the italian state is once again applying severe pressure on the slovenian minority by reducing funding for minority education and culture, which are the basis for the survival of any minority. tork's incident at the slovenian school in barkovlja near trieste is an attempt to intimidate the principal, teachers, children and parents. the carabinieri are not allowed to enter the school. the police have no business at the school. it was only during the fascist era. at the same time, there are hundreds of restaurants in trieste with chinese inscriptions and chinese decorations that don't bother anyone. slovenian symbols in a slovenian school, and some italian politicians are disturbing, disturbing the italian authorities, who even demand an investigation and the arrival of the carabinieri. these are not european nor slovenian standards. this is pressure and this is an unacceptable disgrace, mr. president.
this directive does not provide for the extension of the working time from 40 hours to 60 hours. this directive does not require employees to work 60 or 65 hours per week, including overtime, but sets out the framework and conditions under which this is possible. therefore, equating the 60 hours with what is currently provided for in national legislation and, where the limits are 40 hours or less per week, such equations are not appropriate, since they actually misrepresent that directive. however, this directive limits the maximum time possible. i mean, nobody mentioned today that a lot of people in financial institutions, in law firms, investment firms, and so on, work 60 or 70 or more hours a week, and nobody gets any work done. this directive lays down an upper limit which may not be exceeded. we must also take into account the role of employers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which, of course, have a very difficult time surviving on the market if they have too many formal barriers. we have to understand their situation where they have to work hard to meet their contractual obligations at a certain time, and that at that time, of course, people work more, but with the consent of the worker, for extra pay, of course, not automatically every week. in short, the shift is very different. we all talk about doctors, but we forget about, say, camping, we forget about family hotels and many service activities where people are, you know, working, on duty and of course they have time when they have to be on standby. in short, i think that the council has proposed some compromise, and it is clear that there will be a conciliation procedure, and i hope that we will reach a reasonable solution to it.
last week in poznań, i was able to see for myself the great hope that the european union holds for the rest of the world. they encouraged us to maintain our leadership on climate change. we've got voices from the united states, from australia, that they're going to go down a similar path as we're going down now. and that, of course, is a great responsibility for us. the responsibility to make good legislation and to implement it. and especially a great responsibility because the legislative document did not provide for penalties. i therefore call on national governments and also on members to pay close attention to the fact that we are indeed achieving the objectives. i would like to emphasise two more points: in addition to investing in renewable energy production capacity, we also need to invest in transport networks. smart grids, which enable decentralised electricity generation, are of particular importance here. and the second thing, we're accelerating the use of biomass... (the president cut off the speaker)
thank you for your words. most people in this parliament do not know me, because i only entered it in november and today is also the first time i have spoken. i have agreed to speak, of course, to welcome you, and i look forward to our cooperation, but above all to welcome the achievement we have made today with this vote on the report by mr cercas. we have defended the dignity of the working man, we have defended a social europe, we have defended a europe of solidarity. we must adapt work to man, not man to work, say the unions. and as far as working hours go, we did that today. so thank you to mr cercas, thank you to all those who voted in this way on behalf of the employees in slovenia. - thank you. - thank you.
well, the report is very extensive, and i wonder what its purpose is. on the 28th page, 167 points. the report has all the relevant elements when it comes to fundamental rights. but despite some good points, the report does not reflect the state of human rights at the time. there are no facts. there's no case to make. but there are many words, often contradictory and irrelevant. there are also many illusions, which is not good. it's full of calls to the appropriate authorities, and it's even a provision that's against the law. i am surprised that mr catania did not take the ombudsman's annual reports as a starting point for this report, so that he could see from year to year and, all together, inform us of the progress or backlog in this area. i'm not arguing individual points, but i'm arguing that this report is simply inconsistent. and since the deadline for amendments has been extended, i regret to state that this report cannot be amended because it does not have the appropriate substantive and legal structure. the report of the committee on culture, which clearly states its position on human rights in 12 points, is something else entirely. i believe mr. catania, as a reporter, was a very good cause. i believe in his sincere efforts to present the field of fundamental rights as well as possible, but unfortunately this report, despite some good, really good points, as a whole, in my view, does not meet the minimum conditions for a serious debate, which i very much regret. if such a report is accepted, i fear the public criticism will be even worse. so i think it would be good, mr. catania, to re-do this report so that it's clear where we were in 2004 and where we are today. - thank you. - thank you.
the reporter. − the 2008 joint report of the council and the commission shows that some progress has been made in lifelong learning, but we cannot yet be satisfied with what has been achieved. the main problems include early school leaving, low participation of older and low-skilled workers in lifelong learning and poor skills of immigrants. a knowledge-based economy will require an increasingly skilled workforce. in my report, i stress the need to improve the quality of education at all levels, which must prepare children and young people to learn and think independently, creatively and innovatively. the curricula need to be continuously updated and the use of information technologies for the elderly needs to be improved. lifelong learning programmes must be linked to the economy and support entrepreneurship, and enable citizens to acquire the skills to set up, manage and develop their own businesses. it is important to take into account local and regional needs, possibilities and characteristics. i call on the governments of the member states and the institutions of the european union not to cut funding for education in the midst of the financial crisis, because a quality education, accessible to all sections of the population, is the best tool in the fight against poverty and in finding solutions to the crisis. and thank you to all the colleagues and the secretariat for their cooperation. (applause) i would like to thank you.
