mr president, the car of today is, in some ways, very much the same as that of 100 years ago but, at the same time, it is extremely different regarding security, efficiency and its effect on the environment. this proves one thing: the strength of competition develops technology at a pace we cannot imagine. it also underlines the need for europe to have a competitive car industry if we are to contribute to the global agenda and to better standards for the environment in the global economy, because, if we do not, we will not be able to influence that development. those who call for a policy that would decrease the competitiveness of the european car industry do not contribute to a better environment – it is important to state that. it is also important to state that the target of 125 g, as stated in the report, is acceptable and a step forward. but the important thing is not to discuss emissions from individual cars – big or small – because we need big cars and we will need small cars: they play a different role in different parts of our union, in our countries. what we need is an overall development that decreases emissions in all sorts of cars. therefore, it is important to support new cars, because they are better, to support better road systems, better transport systems, better fuels and better engines. that can only be done by a competitive european car industry and that can only be achieved if we have the right policies to balance the environment and competitiveness, and this report makes a good contribution towards that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good job on an important and sensitive issue. we all know how important the car industry is in the eu. our car industry, especially in my own country, is at the forefront of development, research, performance, the environment and safety. a successful automotive industry is important for the union. it is about jobs and growth, but it is also about a responsibility for our environment, for the global climate. the commission is proposing far-reaching legislation aimed at mandatory co2 emission reductions in terms of emissions and improved vehicle technology and the use of biofuels. the rapporteur is concerned about setting targets which are so difficult for industry to achieve that they risk the competitiveness of companies, as we have heard earlier in this debate. i've heard similar arguments at home. i understand and share this concern, but i think it would be unfortunate at this stage to lower the level of ambition on the part of parliament. i have great confidence that the automotive industry in the eu can achieve high-level objectives through research and development. it's been shown before. our citizens want their cars at a reasonable cost, but our citizens also know that climate change must be tackled, and that it must be done quickly.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank our colleague, mrs piia-noora kauppi, for a very good report. in a balanced way, she describes the problems and difficulties that arise in the internal market when we have 27 different tax systems. globalisation, as mentioned, has further increased the need for a common approach to taxation within the eu, so that obstacles to competition can be avoided. different rules and bureaucracy also make companies lose economic strength and we lose jobs within the eu. we need clearer rules and an approach that favours entrepreneurship, as kauppi proposes. perhaps some of us need to remove some of our shadow patches. as you know, taxes are a very sensitive subject. the sensitive word is tax competition and the autonomy of nations to set tax rates. the commission's long-term objective is a consolidated corporate tax base. in the absence of such a possibility, targeted action should be sought in those areas which favour the efficiency of the internal market. the report sets out the various options and shows that individual countries have chosen different paths, which is good but not enough. it is in principle reasonable for companies to be able to offset losses within a company or between companies in a consortium even across borders. to facilitate such a system, a common view of what is to be taxed is needed, i.e. a consolidated corporate tax base. we in the alde group think that this is the right way. the introduction of the ccctb does not in itself prevent tax competition, rather the opposite. the base will be shared and the visibility improved. this new system will improve the possibilities for smes in particular to offset their losses. worried finance ministers - there are many of them - can feel reassured. your power to tax remains. as regards amendment no 1, our group would like to see a split vote where the first part, which concerns excise duties, can be dealt with separately. we can also consider abstaining on the vote on mrs gottardi's amendments to recitals e and f in order to allow for a broad consensus and support here in the house for this excellent report.
mr president, with this new form of debate i could of course use this minute to ask the commissioner what the current state of play is concerning ccctb in the council, because we know that some ministers of finance are not very happy. could you please, mr commissioner, tell us how the debate is going on within the council and what the 27 member states are proposing today?
for the verts/ale group. madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr blokland for the excellent cooperation we have had throughout this process. it is ten years since the rotterdam convention was signed, which said that prior written authorization would be required for the export of dangerous chemicals. after all, it is not just any chemical that is on the list. the list of chemicals includes the most dangerous chemicals that man uses on earth today. so it's been ten years. one reason for this is the old commission's stubborn attitude that it was a purely trade issue. i thank stavros dimas for giving us the appropriate legal basis to move forward. nor has it always been easy to negotiate with the council. i was shocked when the presidency thought that for a long time, life-threatening chemicals, which are virtually banned in the eu, should be exported to other countries without prior consent. the reason for this was that the council did not want european industry to suffer from competitive disadvantages. the real competitive disadvantage for our industry, however, would be if it had to risk health, the environment and international law to survive. it is absurd to say that we must break international conventions just because others do not follow rules and standards. then you might as well say that the eu should export illegal drugs, because otherwise the mafia does. i'm glad we finally came to an agreement and finally plugged the loophole of unauthorized exports. we now have legislation that not only covers conventional chemicals but also includes requirements for other chemicals that are severely restricted in the eu. these now have to be evaluated by the competent authorities from a health and environmental point of view before export. it is good that the time for exemption has been reduced from 36 to 12 months. it is also good that chemicals in products are covered. finally, we have legislation which is acceptable and improves on the commission's proposal, but which could have been even better if public health and the environment had been allowed to prevail over the interests of business, which is the only sustainable economic model.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when regulating the form of an agreement between two different parties, it is obvious that account must be taken of whether the parties are equivalent or whether one party has an advantage from the outset. if one party has an advantage, the contract rules must take this into account and find a framework which strengthens the weaker party. in the case of consumer credit, which we are discussing now, it is the person who needs the credit who is in the minority. unfortunately, neither the rapporteur nor the compromise proposal takes sufficient account of this responsibility, of consumer rights and protection. this is particularly serious, since it is those with the weakest financial resources who are the ones who are actually asking for credit when they make purchases. i would also like to say that, despite the fact that we have a decision to apply gender mainstreaming in all our work here in parliament, no gender analysis has been carried out on this directive, and despite the fact that we know that many women, especially those with the lowest wages, are often the ones who fall into the debt trap. i am arguing that there must be a ceiling on the level of compensation for early repayment of loans. i also argue that three days' notice is far too short a time. i would also like to see a minimum harmonization, not a maximum harmonization.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking roberta angelilli and all the shadow rapporteurs, but also all the members who have contributed to the fact that we will soon have the first decision of the european parliament on an eu strategy on the rights of the child. the most important issue is the participation and influence of children. here it will be a painstaking and important work to make sure that this becomes reality and not just words. children and young people expect it. the issue which i consider to have been the most successful is the proposals on violence against children. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been very active in this area. it's a great success for the kids. in my home country, sweden, where childbearing is forbidden, every preschooler and every young person knows that adults are not allowed to hit children. the fact that we are now also making clear that we need to work together to stop all abuse of children means that we need to work more closely with actors such as banks, travel agencies, credit companies and currency exchange companies to stop child pornography, sex tourism and the exploitation of children, and to make the internet safer from paedophiles. in addition, illegal websites must be able to be closed. member states must also ensure that children are not a commodity through a sex-purchase law. the most difficult issue we have had in committee has been adoption. i am very pleased that we have now agreed that children have the right to a family, whether it is with relatives, in a foster family or through national and international adoption. it's the best interests of the child that should be paramount, not the best interests of the adults. we all remember what happened in orphanages in romania and in guatemala recently, with the kidnappings of children for adoption that we have on our web page. children are not commodities. it is now up to the commission to listen to the wisdom that we in parliament have found and then to come forward with concrete proposals on how to enshrine the rights of the child, which now, with the new lisbon treaty, will become an objective and a law in the eu. with the new lisbon treaty, the eu must listen and ensure that children's rights are also included in all its work. this should of course also apply to the global perspective, to development work, to culture and to all areas. child poverty will of course be a central issue, but also the plight of children in war and all health issues. i am proud to be in this parliament which will be taking this decision tomorrow.
the committee on employment and social affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. it is linked to the whole strategy we have within the eu and the whole lisbon process that education is something central, not only to how we will cope with growth and employment in the future but also to how we will be able to combat social exclusion. education and training, not just more jobs but also better jobs and highly skilled people, play a very important role in enabling eu countries to compete globally. that is why we welcome this report. i would like to make a few further comments. it is important that we use all the opportunities available to enable education for different groups. one example is child care. it must be possible for both men and women who are parents of young children to participate in education. therefore, there must also be a strategy for childcare. it's important that we look at special groups, like the elderly. there are very few older people in the workforce today. this is largely due to the lack of access to continuing training and adult education. we need to focus on that group. another group is already lowly educated. if we look at education today, continuing education and adult education, we see that those who already have higher education are the ones who get the most education. it is important that we have an equal aspect in education as well. finally, as my speaking time is short, i would just like to point out the importance of good cooperation and the involvement of the social partners in this process.
in writing. the commission proposal contains a wide range of detailed rules on how airport charges are to be regulated. the commission is competent to monitor compliance with community competition law. the proposals in question, however, involve excessive bureaucracy and detailed regulation, which is detrimental to the member states which have opted to deregulate the aviation sector. recommends that the common principles on airport charges apply only to airports with more than five million passenger movements per year, or where the annual traffic exceeds 15% of the number of passenger movements in the member state concerned; this position is preferable to the commission's proposal, which also includes smaller regional airports. we are often faced with the balancing act of supporting common eu rules in order to achieve equal treatment for all actors operating in the internal market. in this case, it is clear that the commission's approach is an unwarranted bureaucratization. on the basis of the above arguments, we voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, but rejected that legislative resolution in the final vote.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the commission considers that the measure is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state. however, the civil aviation authority and the smaller airlines have been hesitant about a new legislation. for the smaller airlines, new legislation and harmonisation is more of a threat, as they often choose to fly at competing airports with lower fares. i voted against the directive for a number of reasons. airports are already regulated by national authorities and their actions are restricted by existing eu competition law. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 29 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 30 june 2012. it is then up to the member states to assess whether their charges are competitive or not. the european parliament has reduced the scope of the directive, i voted in favour of the amendments which limit the directive to 67 airports (compared with the 150 or so airports that would have been affected before). however, i cannot support price regulation at eu level.
in writing. − the single market is the eu's greatest contribution to democracy and prosperity in europe. the aim of this report is to improve the functioning of the internal market by achieving harmonisation of tax bases, in this case by harmonising the way in which losses in companies are to be managed when several countries are involved. the report is, however, based on an ill-conceived premise. the harmonization of tax bases varies greatly between countries, depending on the different structures of the economy. some countries have large elements of heavy basic industry with huge long-term investments, while others are dominated by service companies and light manufacturing. we therefore believe that the question of the harmonization of tax bases should be investigated more thoroughly before a report such as this is discussed in parliament.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. it is important that targets are now set for the number of professional inspectors in europe. the number of occupational inspectors should be one per 10 000 workers, as recommended by the ilo. it is regrettable, however, that after the cuts made by the government, sweden will no longer meet the requirements of the ilo and now the european parliament. after the government's cuts, sweden will have only 0.7 inspectors per 10,000 employees. compared with, for example, denmark, where the figure is just over two.
in writing. - the junilist considers that osh is essentially a national concern. obviously, everything from asbestos cleaning in workplaces to the protection of health care workers working with sharp tools are important issues. however, we have full confidence in the competence of the member states to devise adequate national osh strategies. we therefore question the concrete added value of the eu's views in this area. on the basis of the above arguments, we voted in favour of the amendments aimed at restricting the osh strategy and against the final vote.
mr president, i want to combine two of the topics for the spring summit. firstly, climate change and the climate and energy package. of course, it is very difficult when you have to go from targets to tools. this creates a burden on all our member states. still, this is something we have to do. i want to point out two areas where we have to be very cautious when we enter negotiations on this green package. the first one is the social issues. in this chamber we have had a lot of debate when it comes to the lisbon strategy and to adding economic development to sustainable social development and environmental issues. it is very important that sustainable economic development is reflected in the green package when it is delivered next week. the second thing is technology neutrality. slovenia is a forestry country, as is my own country, sweden, and i think it is very important that you have all the different alternative fuels on the table so that you can pick and choose and let innovation get the full potential of the whole thing. do not forget methanol and cellulose! finally, the lisbon strategy has to be a combination of climate and economic development. look at the transport sector, which is a perfect example of how trains and cars can achieve not only economic development and a better internal market, but also the goals of the energy package. it is only by starting that the unachievable can become achievable. i wish you all the best luck in the world, president-in-office.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to convey my sincere congratulations to slovenia and wish it all the best for its presidency. mr janez janša, a colleague of mine has already asked the question about your statement that the security situation in bosnia is worse than in kosovo. i want to make sure you really answer this question. so i'm going to ask it one more time: on what basis do you make this assertion? because that's just not true. by making that statement, you showed not only a lack of information, but also a lack of diplomacy. if the situation in bosnia had been as complicated as that and worse than in kosovo, your statement would have been directly dangerous. i therefore expect an answer.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. amendment no 4 by the committee on agriculture proposes that eur 9.2 million be set up in a separate budget instead of via the european guarantee fund. we cannot interpret it as anything other than a desire for budgetary increases.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children. we believe that children's rights should be respected in the same way as human rights and we naturally support the fight against, for example, child pornography and the sexual exploitation of children. we would like to stress, however, that many of the points in the report concern areas which are to be regulated at member state level, such as the management of adoptions. in addition, it covers subjects already regulated by existing ec legislation, such as television advertising and the labelling of goods.
in writing. − the rights of the child are undoubtedly a universal and inviolable right and junilistan is pleased to note that all eu member states have ratified the un convention on the rights of the child. this means that there is already binding international legal legislation protecting children from child labour, trafficking, violence and a range of other interferences in their lives. in addition, child rights is an area of swedish law that uncompromisingly puts the best interests of the child first. we have chosen to abstain from voting on the report for the simple reason that the rapporteur seems to have completely lost sight of the best interests of children in his report. the report focuses almost exclusively on the specific social model that member states should introduce in their respective countries to achieve what the european parliament considers to be the best solution. the report covers everything from the prohibition of violence on television and the sale of violent computer games to forced marriages, illegal adoptions and illegal activities. we have of course voted in favour of the amendments which stress the importance of fully respecting the un convention on the rights of the child as a guarantee of the legal security of children and their universal human rights.
in writing. - one point was of concern to all the groups. in paragraph 127 of the original report, there was a proposal calling on all eu member states to ban children from wearing the headscarf in school. as private individuals, we sympathize with the basic idea of protecting the rights of children to play freely, to participate in school gymnastics and to enjoy a certain protection against parental coercion even as minors. however, such a complex and sensitive issue can hardly be solved at eu level. the states of europe weigh the rights and obligations of children, parents and the state in the light of their own history and political situation. we fully agree on the importance of the eu creating a good framework. paragraph 127 is reasonably outside such a framework.
in writing. - we have great confidence in the competence of the member states to deal with the very important issue of adult education. it is important that the education departments of the member states have sufficient financial resources to develop adult education. one way of providing them with financial resources is to reduce the contributions of the member states to the eu budget, so that they have more room for investment in health, education and care. we would point out once again that the federalist majority in the european parliament does not respect the exclusive responsibility of the member states for the organisation of education and the content of education systems. this 'opinion' report by the european parliament never needed to be drawn up and can be seen as nothing more than an employment project for the european parliament's committee on culture and education.
mr president, this situation, as all the others have said, is very tragic: it resembles very much what happened a few years ago in addis ababa. i doubt whether a solution can be found without new elections. but, ideally, a solution should now be found through dialogue in kenya, preferably supported by the african union. but, so far, we have seen very little progress. time is short: the fabric of the country is disintegrating as we speak. we cannot be bystanders if the situation is not resolved. to suspend aid is a must under the present circumstances. moreover, if reconciliation fails, the eu has to step in to offer its services to mediate. is the council, is the commission prepared to do that? in the longer-term perspective, i would submit that we have to seriously reconsider not only our development cooperation but in particular our governance programme, and in particular help political parties to become real parties and, in addition to that, strengthen the institution of the kenyan parliament, because that is a key problem right now.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have created a single market with free movement of goods, services, capital and people. almost all of them have joined schengen. in practice, all border controls within the eu have been abolished. this is a giant leap forward from a liberal point of view. we no longer have to stand with our hats in the face of bureaucrats when we want to study, work, tour or seek medical treatment in another eu country. freedom, however, has a downside. with the disappearance of border controls, the scope for organized crime increased enormously. this has facilitated drug trafficking, dealing and smuggling. sometimes this expansion of organised crime is used as proof of the need for the eu. this is grotesque. the expansion depends on the eu, a price we are forced to pay for increased freedom and prosperity. how much is that? yes, police resources may have to increase by 1-2 percent of gdp at the national level to roll back this organized crime. such a national increase in resources is the most important and perhaps the only means of restoring a decent europe. the rapporteur wants to transfer the power of the police to brussels. europol shall become an eu body financed from the eu budget. he takes issues of integrity and democratic legitimacy lightly. we should therefore reject this report, invest in the development of national police resources and let europol remain a body of cooperation between states.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. when we in the committee on employment usually discuss the lisbon strategy, we talk about high growth, a high level of employment, good social conditions, good health care, and we also say that the education system and the development of skills, among other things, should be a driving force in order to maintain this. if we apply all these objectives to the roma minority in europe, we see an extremely high level of unemployment. we don't see very good social conditions, not very good health care, not very good housing, a segregated society for them, and that the education system is segregated as well. there are special education programmes for roma which do not give them the right to adequate education. yet the lisbon strategy is for everyone. you had some good suggestions. we support them, but it is important that the strategy be followed up by an action plan. it is important that we have mainstreaming, but at the same time there must be coordination within the commission. it is important that we review our funding so that it targets the roma minority. it is important that when we make strategies in the field of employment, education and other areas, we always take account of the situation of the roma so that they are integrated into the different strategies.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report on a region which deserves our attention. the south caucasus is assuming an increasingly strategic position, both politically and economically. we all feel the growing interest in the region, not least in this house. however, the conflict is unfortunately multifaceted and russia's involvement is extensive. russia wants to increase its influence and further emphasise its interest in dominating and, inter alia, controlling oil and gas supplies to europe. the eu must recognise the danger of russian actions and therefore strengthen its links with the south caucasus. this will also provide a useful and necessary complement to russian oil and gas with distribution routes in northern europe. the eu has everything to gain from greater involvement. i am a member of a swedish organisation - i actually co-founded it - which aims to increase contacts between sweden and azerbaijan. so i say this as a friend. the nagorno-karabakh conflict of 1991-94 displaced one million people and remains unresolved. according to amnesty international, there are some 600 000 internally displaced persons living in terrible conditions in azerbaijan. a few years ago, i visited a refugee camp in azerbaijan, near the border with iran. i've never known such misery myself. that after all these years hundreds of thousands of people are still living in such unworthy conditions is completely unacceptable. the azerbaijani leader, headed by president aliyev, deserves serious criticism. the eu and the commission must do more in this area. these refugees must not be among the forgotten. it is also important that we act vigorously to uphold a fundamental right such as freedom of expression. opposition politicians and journalists shall not be subjected to threats, harassment or imprisonment. if azerbaijan is to be a respected nation in europe, it must live up to the fundamental principles of a democratic state based on the rule of law.
madam president, i would like to thank you. with its clear geostrategic position, the black sea region is an area of importance for both the eu and the countries in the region, not only for security reasons but also because of its cultural diversity and richness. however, regions where many roads cross and where there are different political and other interests are often at risk of a lot of conflict. i myself was born in the balkans and i know what long-running and unresolved conflicts can mean, not only for the security situation of an entire region but also for the economic conditions and the normalisation of life for the people living there. i also know that the eu has an important role to play. the eu can and must aim to develop this region together with the peoples of the black sea region into a stable and secure region, where the rule of law and democratic principles prevail. increasing cooperation in the field of energy is also an important part of this work. by investing in new infrastructure and increasing the spread of suppliers, we are contributing to economic and commercial development in the region, which in turn improves the potential for stability and security. strengthening the links between the eu and the black sea region is therefore not only good but necessary. it is therefore also clear that the black sea region needs a new and clearer regional policy. i would like to emphasize that regional policy must not be used as an alternative to eu membership for those countries which may be concerned. nor should it be used as an excuse to delay the region's european integration process. finally, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their excellent work and to thank mrs ferrero-waldner in particular for her personal interest and proven personal commitment to issues relating to this area.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteurs and those who have been working on this report on the excellent mapping of the current statistics and the current situation in europe when it comes to women in industry. still, one cannot avoid being disappointed, because documents like this have been produced since the 1950s and we still have very little change. this applies to women in industry, the health situation and health care for women, and to career opportunities, learning opportunities and opportunities to improve their skills, not to mention the situation of the work and family combination. i would like, therefore, to spend half of my speaking time on questions to the commission. firstly, it is appalling that, after decades, we still have such a bad statistics situation. this is something where the commission can really ask for an improvement when it comes to european statistics. i see that responsibility for this lies mainly with the commission. when i was a university teacher 25 years ago, i taught my students about the rules on equal pay deriving from brussels and from the european member states at the time. the cases from the court (danfoss i and ii) happened more than 25 years ago. is it not time for a new regulation with more teeth? this is also the responsibility of the commission. i would also like a mid-term health check when it comes to the roadmap for gender equality, which contains a lot of nice words, but no regulation so far on the horizon. fourthly, the spring summit will work with the lisbon resolution. these issues should be mentioned in march. and fifthly, when the commission – and parliament – arrange seminars with high-level groups, we should apply the same rules as norway for industrial boards, i.e. the 40:60 percentage.
member of the commission. − madam president, the idea of an internet governance forum (igf) was born at the world summit on the information society in tunis in november 2005 and defined as a non-binding forum for multi-stakeholder policy discussion. the commission supports the forum in this form. two meetings have been held so far: in 2006 in athens and 2007 in rio. the commission welcomes the forum in each form. the commission also welcomes the participation of parliament at the forum and is grateful for the excellent cooperation on both meetings. as in the previous year, the meeting in rio provided an excellent framework for enriching exchanges which allowed the gathering of a range of views on the relevant issues. therefore, the commission sees value in upholding the main characteristics of the forum, notably the participation of the various stakeholders and its non-binding nature. i would like also to thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to say something more concrete on the igf (we have adopted this abbreviation) which took place in november in rio de janeiro. firstly i would like to thank very much ms trautmann, mr harbour, mr badia i cutchet and mr hökmark, who represented parliament at this meeting, for their active participation and for the continuation of their excellent cooperation. this allowed us – this year again – together to highlight a number of european priorities such as freedom of speech, bridging the digital divide, security and child protection on-line. it is important for europe to bring such issues to the forefront of the international agenda on a constant basis. the commission supports the igf. this concept, elaborated during the world summit on the information society, is still very valuable, and all the issues which have been mentioned are very much in favour of what we are trying to step up as actions in this particular field. in fact, on a broad range of internet-relevant subjects, the number of participants – around 3 100 – clearly demonstrates that there is indeed interest in having such a place for discussions. the fact that there is no negotiated text as an outcome of the forum should be seen as a strength rather than as a weakness of the process. the forum allows for open exchange, without the pressure of defending a particular outcome in a binding document. this can serve as a basis for improving understanding of each other’s concerns and can pave the way for finding common solutions. dynamic coalitions stemming from the forum are, in fact, one example that the igf can work as a platform where people who share common interests can further cooperate. thus, the rio internet governance forum meeting again provided an excellent framework for enriching exchanges, which allowed a range of views on relevant issues to be gathered. i would also like to thank once again members and hope we will continue our excellent cooperation, because this is one of the most promising areas for our future work.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, it is important to underline the rapid change that use of the internet and ict has brought about, not only for individual societies, but also for the world. in all sectors of societies, the impact of the internet has changed patterns and opportunities. this is important in order to keep a perspective for the future, because the strength of the internet has been its independent nature, its opportunities and its ability to adapt to different opportunities and demands in societies, based on a number of different actors and operators. it is important because, when we look to the future, we must ensure that it can be used in order to bridge rifts between countries and people, and help to fight poverty and support development – it is of crucial importance for the millennium goals, for example. the emergence of new technology should also be used to ensure that it is easier for more people to use the internet, in more societies. we in the european union have three important things to focus on. first of all, we should ensure we are committed to, and support, the igf process and its independent and non-binding character. that is of deep importance, because it is a good process which is much more dynamic when it is independent and non-binding. secondly, we should contribute to the preparations for the next igf in new delhi, and ensure that we hold discussions with parliamentarians and civil society in order to underline its independence, but also the opportunities. thirdly, we should ensure that the internet is guaranteed freedom and freedom of expression.
madam president, i just wanted to say one thing. i would like to thank ms trautmann, who led the delegation to rio and did it in a very good way. i did not mention that in my first intervention, but i think it is important to state. we all found her to be a very good leader. i would just like that to be noted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amended proposal because it contains improvements in data protection. however, i do not agree with the increasing move of justice and home affairs issues from the member states to the eu. for this reason, i voted against the legislative resolution.
in writing. - this report addresses a number of aspects which are important in themselves, but where member states have the competence and responsibility to develop and improve their respective legislation. the gender balance in company boards, the development of gender equality plans in large companies and the proportion of women on company boards are not issues that are best and most effectively regulated at eu level. we have therefore voted against the report in question.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the people's party has always maintained that voluntary work is the way forward, but that it is not always enough. for sweden, active work has made us known as one of the most equal countries in the world. do we not want to spread our success across the eu? of course we want to! the question is, with what methods? in the report in question i was obliged to vote against a number of points, the spirit of which i support but the scope and approach of which i found questionable. i believe that both gender equality plans and measurable targets can be important tools for companies. however, i do not think that this is something that the eu should be doing in the first place. the same applies to the establishment of an eu-sponsored method to analyze in detail the tasks in order to guarantee equal pay. the globalisation fund, which i was very skeptical about from the beginning, cannot take gender into account either - that would be an unfair double standard. we cannot ask that every report be written as if it were written by ourselves, but there are some points to be made. yet the subject is so important that i finally voted yes to the whole thing.
madam president, finally, we move from targets to tools! i agree that this can be wisely managed – a win-win situation, where we can create a better environment, better opportunities for our children and more jobs in europe. but it needs coherence in our management of different political areas – research policy, development aid, the common agricultural policy, energy policy and so on – and the first test of this will be at the spring summit with the lisbon agenda. will the lisbon agenda at the council in march reflect the energy and climate package? that will be the first great test. there is also another test. we have only 13 months to bring along the decisions on this very important – maybe the most important – proposal: this mandate for the european parliament, and the commission, and the council. thirteen months to be able to deliver a european standpoint before the european elections and before the extremely important meeting in copenhagen in december 2009. we all know that it is really important, we all know that it is imperative that we get there, and it is up to all of us individually to make it possible – and not impossible – to get a decision in april so that, unlike in the old danish fairy tale, the emperor does not stand naked when he goes to copenhagen! we also have to address energy poverty – it is not there enough – technology neutrality and the forestry issues, which have to be improved. this will be delivered, i think, in the parliamentary procedure in a very transparent and open way, as it is in parliament. finally, from tools to targets: it is our responsibility, and the alde group will stand by you when it comes to a decision and deliver value for voters – finally!
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission and its president on the presentation and the proposal here and to welcome it. i come from a country where we have proved those goals are achievable – although we do not have very much sun anyway – but it is possible to achieve those goals. and now we are, as has been said today, making the overall goals into concrete actions and measures – that is good. i have three points. first, competitiveness needs sustainability – but sustainability needs competitiveness. if we are to be a competitive economy in the future, we need to have competitive energy sources, and that also goes for the renewables. we need to have competition between different renewables, not a regulated economy with subsidies for different renewables. we need to have fair and open competition, because then we will see the second and third generation of renewables emerge, and we will have good use of them. the second point is that high charges for some countries must not lead to less responsibility for other countries. i must say on that point i feel a little bit uncomfortable because, maybe, some countries are getting away a little bit too easily. we need to underline this because everyone needs to make those efforts. thirdly, this is about renewables, but i would still like to underline the importance of nuclear power, not because i look upon nuclear power as one of the renewables, but it is my belief that, if we are to take full advantage and make full use of renewables, we must not get into a situation where the phasing-out of nuclear power consumes the achievements we can make in the fight against carbon dioxide emissions. we need both of them, and they will support each other. those are my three points today. i welcome the proposal and presentation, and wish us all good luck.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the postal service is one of the most appreciated social services by citizens, young and old. this makes the wording of the decision particularly urgent. in previous discussions of the directive i have expressed concern that the needs of the rural population would not be met. it has not been clear that the same service would be guaranteed to all. during a question and answer session with commissioner mccreevy i was assured that there would be no change in the public service obligations. today we can see a compromise that guarantees that we in the slums will have our mail picked up and delivered five days a week just like everyone else. i will support the compromise on the postal directive tomorrow. hopefully this will lead to better service, lower prices and a more efficient postal system for everyone as we liberalise the single market in yet another area.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. there is a broad consensus in the eu that we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions to stop climate change, but this must not lead to a bureaucratic society without freedom and dynamism. two basic principles apply: we will set emission targets for each country and then leave it to those countries and to the market to meet the targets under free competition and we will internalise the costs of emissions with sufficiently expensive emission allowances. then these will automatically be included in all the billions of economic decisions made every day around the world by households and businesses. so households are choosing to self-power low-energy light bulbs, car manufacturers are making fuel-efficient vehicles, property owners are building passive houses, energy producers are producing low-emission energy. then research and development in this area will pay off. but the eu should not impose prohibitions and detailed regulations. that's why we're going to vote no on the ban on patio heaters. that's why we're going to say no to tax breaks for demolishing houses and no to public funding for energy conservation.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i thank the shadow rapporteur for the fact that we were able to produce a good report. i also want to thank commissioner borg for finally - finally! - proposing powerful means to tackle the dumping of fish and unwanted by-catches. today we have a fisheries policy that is depleting the world's oceans, leaving behind destroyed bottoms, destroyed ecosystems and depleted seas. even seabirds are being killed by today's fishing policy. if this destruction had happened on land, if we had treated our forests the way we treat our oceans, we would have had riots in the streets, but now the destruction of the oceans is happening in secret, in silence. rachel carson's book our silence became a concept in 1962 and a wake-up call for many to get involved in environmental and nature conservation. now we face a time of calm seas. in fact, last year journalist isabella lövin published a book with that very title. let us now get our lives in order to save the future generation of fishermen. the commission's proposal is in fact a total break with the kind of quota and detailed regulation where fishermen have in practice been encouraged to empty the sea and then throw back dead fish that are not profitable and where the development of gear has been mainly about getting more and more out of the sea. the threat of being forced to fill their vessels with unprofitable fish gives eu fishermen a whip to fish more selectively. but for a successful policy, you also need carrots. for example, we can allow more fishing days for vessels with selective measures or give them access to areas that are otherwise closed to vessels without selective gear. it is important that we set annual by-catch and dumping reduction targets for each type of fishery and that we have a dialogue with the parties involved for the best results. positive examples are the bay of biscay and kattegat and skagerrak. there, french and swedish fishermen have used sorting grates with great success in the fishing for sea trout (nephrop). these have virtually eliminated by-catches. with a little more freedom and responsibility for the fishing fleet, perhaps greater cooperation between scientists and fishermen could lead to a positive development. this is combined with better data on what fish are caught. we need to look at electronic logging systems and any video surveillance if we can find a good solution for preserving personal privacy. another important aspect is what we are going to do with the fish in the form of by-catches that return to ports in the event of a dumping ban. it is important that it can be used in some way, but at the same time that the level of compensation is kept so low that it does not create incentives to hunt by-catch. i hope and believe that the commission will quickly come up with a proposal that can be implemented. this can then be an important part of the fight against overfishing and sustainable fishing. but of course that is not enough. we also need general reductions in fishing effort for endangered species today, but perhaps we will have to debate that another day.
the rapporteur. - thank you, madam president. yes, commissioner, it is clear that there are many reasons for throwing fish overboard, but i still believe that this has been exacerbated by elements of our fisheries policy. let me ask you something. i do not really understand why you are against amendment no 4 when it is going in the direction you yourself are aiming for. today's report states that decisions to prohibit dumping should only be taken after other measures have been tried. the amendment provides that the implementation of a decision to prohibit dumping shall be subject to review in the light of other negative incentives. we are assuming the same logic if amendment no 4 is adopted, that we have a policy of no discarding but that implementation will depend on the conditions of each individual fishery. i do not really understand why you said you were against amendment no 4, but perhaps we can talk more about that later. what makes me optimistic, i suppose, is that we do feel some sort of consensus. i've spoken to scientists and fishermen alike. there is a good deal of consensus here about what needs to be done. the commission and parliament are on the same page, and fishermen and environmental organisations are also on board. it makes me a little optimistic. maybe we can get all the players to work together and we'll get results. the vote will be taken at the next voting time. we can therefore take account of what mr fraga said about voting for the first part and against the second part. thank you and thank you to all who have taken part in the debate and the work. it has been a pleasure working on this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i am concerned about what this will mean for the future. i am not against us standing up and helping each other in crisis situations, but it should happen naturally. i do not think it is justifiable to hold joint exercises at the expense of eu citizens and i am absolutely against foreign officials being able to operate and exercise their authority on swedish territory with the immunity retained. in the long run, it is a move towards a common police force, which i am totally opposed to.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report because it is based on voluntary cooperation and can therefore only be established by mutual agreement between two member states. however, we are of the principled view that foreign officials should not be allowed to operate or exercise authority on swedish territory with the immunity retained. in the long term, we see a possible development towards a common police force, which we very much doubt.
in writing. - i believe that the member states should decide independently whether they wish to deregulate their respective national postal monopolies. i therefore voted in favour of amendment no 10, which rejects the council's common position.
in writing. - i support the swedish liberalization of the postal market, but i am against the eu institutions deciding whether or not to abolish the respective postal monopolies. i believe that the member states should decide independently whether they wish to deregulate their respective national postal monopolies. i therefore voted in favour of amendment no 10, which rejects the council's common position.
in writing. the european parliament voted today in favour of the compromise with the council which provides for the liberalisation of europe's postal market by the end of december 2010 (with the exception of countries with particularly difficult topography, which are given two more years). i have focused my work on the principle of reciprocity, i.e. that there is a mutual agreement that countries which are waiting to liberalise should not be able to enter and compete with those which are beginning to liberalise. i am therefore very pleased to note that my amendment was accepted first by the rapporteur (ferber) and then by the council and that it is now part of the compromise which has now been accepted.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the resolution contains many good ideas on how to make this objective a reality and that is why i have chosen to vote in favour of the resolution. the objectives set can be summarised in the term 20-20-20, which means that emissions should be reduced by 20%, the use of renewable energy sources should be increased by 20%, and this should be done by the year 2020. i believe, however, that the emphasis should be on reducing emissions and that it should then be up to each member state to decide how this is to be done. the eu should have been able to do without the need to specify how countries should change their use of renewable energy sources. in view of the above, it is regrettable that nuclear energy is not included in the concept of renewable energy. the iaea has stated that nuclear power is a necessary component for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. it is regrettable that this resolution chooses to ignore this by insisting that emissions must not be reduced by nuclear energy. in implementing this resolution it will become clear that the eu is indirectly condemning the role of nuclear energy in improving the climate situation. this is a very strange position, in my view, and it should be noted.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'. we therefore support the main conclusion that all countries must take comprehensive action to reduce these emissions and that eu countries should take the lead. at the same time, we are opposed to the commission and the president of parliament, who always try to use the great challenges to centralize political power and create an eu without freedom and dynamism. the eu's role in energy policy should be limited to:- setting emission targets for each country and then leaving it to those countries and to the market to achieve the targets under free competition - with sufficiently expensive emission allowances internalize the costs of emissions. (then these are automatically taken into account in all the billions of economic decisions made every day around the world by households and businesses. then households opt for self-powered low-energy light bulbs, car manufacturers make fuel-efficient vehicles, and property owners build passive houses. then r & d in this area pays off.) - allocate money for research and legislate on product labelling eu politicians should not regulate in detail. no one today knows how this gigantic transformation will best take place. that is why we reject such things as bans on patio heaters and tax breaks for demolishing houses. we have voted no, in order to support a rethinking of the eu's energy policy.
the report by mrs fiona hall deals with a very important subject. it is not enough for the eu to set tough rules on co2 emissions. people must be able and willing to change their own consumption and behavioural patterns if real change is to be achieved. as a wise paragraph 61 puts it: the fight must begin at home. for our credibility, therefore, the european parliament must set a good example in its own activities. here we call on eu citizens to do away with everything from water heaters to heated outdoor cafeterias, while the energy consumption of the second seat of the european parliament alone costs 5322 tonnes of co2 emissions per year! a study commissioned by mep caroline lucas points to the dramatic environmental consequences of parliament's monthly visits to france. in total, travel to strasbourg, where parliament holds its votes, is estimated to result in 18 901 tonnes of co2 emissions per year. that's the equivalent of over 10,000 trips to new york from europe. the report went through was good. it would be better to stop going to strasbourg for votes that could just as easily be held at home.
in writing. - social exclusion, poverty and discrimination are abuses which member states must do their utmost to combat. often it is the roma minority that is the hardest hit by these injustices. however, we believe that integration policy is best handled at member state level.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution in the final vote. but we would point out that it is first and foremost the political responsibility of each member state to solve problems of ethnic discrimination and social rights issues within their respective countries' territories. some of the amendments to the resolution by the uen group contain a prejudiced undertone. we have therefore voted against the amendments tabled by the uen group. the european union's task in this context is to highlight the principles of the union of values. racism and ethnic discrimination in the eu and in europe must be combated. but this must be done by each member state, through education and public opinion, inculcating the equal value of all people in each new generation.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is very unusual for me to be able to express a positive opinion on the reports presented here. this is an exception. the main point is that the rapporteur has sought greater openness here, and i wholeheartedly support this. but i would remind the house that as long as we have agricultural policy and the structural funds above all, we will have a completely superhuman task to try to control. what we are forced to do is to introduce new rules all the time, more surveillance, and we get a bureaucracy that becomes completely unreasonable. the solution to this is, as we all know, that the richer countries in the eu should give money to the poorer countries without telling them what it is all going to be used for. that would eliminate most of the control apparatus, and that must be the long-term goal. we won't have to count cows and dirt and all that. we should be concerned with what the eu is for the single market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking mr deprez for the report and the much-needed discussion on terrorism. i also think it is a good idea to have it here now that we have started the intercultural year. what i do not think is sufficiently described in the report is the reason why people, especially young men, become or are attracted to become terrorists and put themselves outside democratic society. if we look around us, we cannot ignore the poverty and injustice that exist. there are many young people to whom we cannot offer education, employment, housing or a hope for the future. it is the breeding ground for fanaticism and for the attraction of young people to become involved in the advancement of their group or people. the report lacks an analysis. i would particularly urge you to vote for amendment no 12, because terrorist propaganda today is usually carried out online, something that too few of us here see or have control over. this is a generational issue, and we need to become more and better informed about and better at preventing recruitment. i would also like to say that i support the amendments tabled by the pse group.
thank you, mr president. commissioner, what is it? it is necessary for the eu to demonstrate clearly that the fight against terrorism is an act of solidarity, both symbolically and practically. more resources are needed to enable europol to work together with our national security services and to achieve results. this is particularly true of the recent unrest following the renewed conflict with the cartoons of muhammad. as has been said here, the fight against terrorism must always be fought by legal and proportionate means. the cia's flights in europe, the use of torture as a form of execution and the drowning of prisoners, which the cia now admits to having done, and the establishment of special secret prisons must be strongly condemned. here, mr frattini, the eu should have acted much more forcefully than it has. it is good that the report takes a broader view and addresses the factors that contribute to increased support and renewed recruitment for groups that reject our social models in favour of violence and sectarianism. the fact that the perpetrators of the terrible atrocities of recent years were born, or grew up, in europe was a brutal thought-provoking factor, because we also need to look at our own societies with more critical eyes. we need dialogue and an honest discussion on our integration and visa policies. here we can, and we must not, duck for difficult questions. but one thing is clear to me. it is our values that should be the basis of our common legislation. the current debate on sharia law in britain shows that noble intentions can do more harm than good. we must also ensure that common legislation does not disturb or crowd out important constitutions, including freedom of expression. the report calls for the inclusion of a new definition in the framework decision, namely the justification of terrorism. i think this is unfortunate. not because there is no reason to ensure that all member states have good laws against incitement, but because it is difficult, if not impossible, to find a definition which could be applied uniformly and which would not give rise to difficult problems of interpretation. on the one hand, there is the important task of finding ways to combat terrorism and save lives. on the other hand, there is the principle of freedom of expression and the ambition to maintain a high level of legal certainty in europe. it's about finding a reasonable balance.
in writing. the fight against terrorism must be conducted only in a manner appropriate to an open, democratic and rule of law society. it is fundamental that threats to the open society are tackled with the methods of the open society. in balancing our efforts and actions, we must safeguard human rights and the rule of law and not fall short of privacy measures. i therefore choose to vote against the recommendation to the council by mr deprezza on the factors contributing to increased support for terrorism and increased recruitment of terrorists.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. reading the commission's communication, and in particular the report of parliament, one might think that the poor little eu is being discriminated against by evil foreign powers. this is particularly evident in paragraph 4 of the report, which says that we call on the commission to ensure that our trade interests are protected against illegal or unfair trade practices by third countries. and then: the eu should act swiftly and firmly when third countries unfairly restrict access to their markets for eu companies. we should be careful with that kind of language towards former colonies. they remember the last time europe acted firmly to defend its interests. that language can do us more harm than any restrictions on trade. the commission has a point, of course, in that there are technical barriers to trade and unfair rules. of course, we will discuss this with our partners calmly and rationally and resolve any problems. in that case, invite not only companies but also ngos, including from third countries. then we may be able to understand the reason behind the rules and to see whether they are reasonable or not. i'm worried about the ten-point list. restrictive export practices on raw materials, caps on foreign ownership in services, barriers to foreign direct investment, public procurement procedures and the use of state aid must be capable of being considered as justified barriers to trade resulting from legitimate legislation and constituting administrative measures of public authorities. they cannot be removed without public consultation and deliberation without threatening the stability of those countries. countries must have the right to protect health and the environment and to have a procurement system that preserves the ability of their local companies not to be completely knocked out of international competition and create mass unemployment. nor can we make unreasonable demands on countries that have little to no resources to protect human rights to protect our intellectual property. we'd rather propose than trap. we will put an end to the rules that favour foreign companies operating in their countries and that act against other foreign players. that's where we can remove the rules. rules which are directly or indirectly designed to protect the public or local businesses must be allowed to slip through our fingers at times. we have protected our industry ourselves until it was strong enough to compete internationally. others must have that opportunity.
creating market access is about eliminating tariffs and non-tariff barriers to trade around the world. it is a hugely important priority for the union's trade policy. it not only creates business opportunities for european companies but also access to better and cheaper products in other parts of the world. it creates wealth around the world. this is also an issue on which i feel we are unusually united in the european parliament. this is a welcome development at a time when protectionism is on the rise globally. that is why i also think that the commission's communication and the report by mr guardano cambó are more welcome than ever. they're really very good. in this discussion i would like to point out another issue that we must not forget - the other side of openness. i think they're connected. european companies also need openness to europe in order to be globally competitive and to take advantage of the market access we can create in other countries. in our globalised world, with more and more companies with global supply chains, tariffs on our own can be as damaging to our successful companies as the very tariffs we are fighting in other countries. i have a concrete proposal for the commissioner, one which may help to solve this problem somewhat. when companies have problems with intra-eu trade, they report them to solvit, which is a great tool to increase mobility in the single market. if the company has problems exporting to a non-eu country, it is reported to the market access database. that's also very important. both these systems then form the basis for negotiations on trade facilitation. hopefully, either the market access database or solvit can be developed to also address problems faced by eu importers. if we do that, we can continue to push both ourselves and the rest of the world in a more free-trade-friendly direction. we can then show that europe is leading the way in opening up markets, both abroad and at home.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is my good fortune to be able to respond happily to two subjects in parliament this evening. i am very pleased that i made it all the way back from kiev in order to do so. so let me start by thanking parliament for the invitation and the opportunity to make this statement on trade defence. i would like to thank parliament for its close interest in this dossier, evidenced by our discussions both in plenary and in the committee on international trade. in 2006, the commission and the council agreed on the need for a review of europe’s trade defence instruments. the intention of this review was to ensure that europe’s vital tools were defending its workers and businesses against unfair trade and were continuing to work as effectively as possible, especially taking into account the dramatic changes in the global economy, where european businesses operate global supply chains, and where the mix of economic interests amongst european businesses is inevitably becoming more and more complex and difficult to judge and to call. following our review and public consultation, and with the backing of the college, i worked with my officials on a set of proposals for adjustments to the eu’s trade defence rules that would offer real improvements in accessibility, transparency and speed and clarity for businesses. they would include, for example, greater access to documents, greater assistance for small businesses using the trade defence system and faster provisional measures. we would also propose to clarify, through the drafting of guidelines, the application of eu rules in two important areas. first, the considerations for determining what degree of production outside of europe disqualifies a company from being treated as european for the purposes of our investigations and trade defence assessments. second, regarding the considerations that should be used in the community interest test, which allows us to determine that trade defence action is indeed in the wider economic interest of the european union – something which, as i say, is becoming increasingly complex and difficult to analyse, where situations are not quite as straightforward and not quite as black and white as they perhaps might appear on the surface, or indeed as was the case in the classic operation of trade defence machinery in the past. the intention in both these areas is largely to codify established practice, which would create clarity and predictability for businesses and decision-making in contentious cases, which we have had experience of in recent years and which, i suggest, are going to increase, not decrease, in number in the coming years. whatever your position on the merits or demerits of anti-dumping, those, i think, are useful things to improve upon and to clarify and to issue guidelines upon, in order to give greater certainty and predictability to those who are appealing for the use of these instruments. a set of proposals along these lines would be balanced. it would reflect a middle ground of the debate among all the interested parties and the member states. there is no point and no advantage in trying to push the centre of gravity, in the design and operation of our trade defence instruments, to one side or the other in the range of opinions in the european union that inhabit the subject of trade defence. it is necessary to devise and to identify a route that takes you, broadly speaking, down the middle. although our attempts have often been portrayed by people as an attempt to go to one side or the other, these impressions can only have been formed by people who cannot have seen our preliminary conclusions and proposals, because there is nothing in such a package that weakens our ability to tackle unfair trade, and nothing which fundamentally alters the basis of the operation of our trade defence instruments. however, it is clear from consultation that this issue is politically sensitive and continues to attract vigorous debate and, i have to say, some disagreement. a package that balances the different concerns in the debate will not currently, in my view, attract the necessary support, and it is better to build on consensus than seek to reconcile presently irreconcilable viewpoints on what clarification and what reform should take place. the political environment in which this subject has been discussed is not easy. some argue that, at a time when we are pressing partners like china to trade fairly, we must not risk even the perception that the eu will lower its guard on trade defence. no such motivation, no such intention is present, but, nonetheless, some have argued that even risking the perception would be unwise at this moment. furthermore, the rules negotiations in the doha round, in particular the chairs’ text, have also put the international tdi environment into considerable flux, because of the text’s surprising and, frankly, unacceptable content. i do not think there has been a chairs’ text in the history of chairs’ texts in the doha round that has attracted less support from right across the membership of the wto than the current chairs’ text on rules. but, above all, our objective has been to strengthen unity on the operation of trade defence instruments in order to make them more workable, and it is not my job as commissioner to weaken that unity. the reality is that, as of today, this unity that i would like to see is not sufficiently in evidence amongst our member states. that does not mean one side of this debate is right and that the other is wrong, just that both sides need to continue working towards a greater consensus and, frankly, a greater sense of solidarity in the operation of these instruments. that is what i propose to encourage. we will continue to consult on the ideas that we have floated and to build agreement by drawing on our experience. i would finish by making this observation. the pressures that global economic change is exerting on our trade defence system are here to stay. they are not going to go away; they are actually going to grow. the pressures are going to become greater. our ability to operate the traditional consensus and solidarity is going to become harder, not easier, which makes it all the more important that the role of the commission grows in navigating our way through the different and competing interests and views that businesses and member states have on this subject. i believe that future cases will demonstrate the need for clarity and will demonstrate the need for the sort of guidelines that we have originally drafted. the questions with which we started this review will still be present in six months, in a year and in two years, and i firmly believe that, in due course, they are going to have to be addressed. our challenge is together to find economically and politically credible answers, and the commission will continue to work with that in mind.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. thank you peter mandelson. when you were here last you spoke of the need for a reform of the trade defence instruments. you spoke passionately about how globalisation and global supply chains have changed the conditions for trade defence instruments and that they therefore needed to be updated to remain effective and take account of the community interest. everything you said back then is still true. we need a reform of the instruments. since then, however, reform has proved very difficult to implement. conflicts between european companies and between member states are high. but that does not diminish the need for reform. the fact that everything is so infected and that in case after case you see the same lines of conflict following the same predictable tracks, shows in my opinion that we need change. we need a new unity around the instrument and a consensus that unites. now the reform is postponed and seems rather distant. i'm sure more people than me are sorry. but it is no use arguing about whose fault it was, whether it is the fault of the member states or the commission and which member states have put the brakes on the wheel. the blame game is not good for anyone. because even though the bill is currently stalled, the ideas cannot be buried. we must not forget the question. we must continue to discuss and to establish what we actually agree on. i think there's a lot. it's about transparency and openness. clear rules on how we apply the community interest are also likely to apply. perhaps even how we modernise the definition of community industry. but that requires that we keep the debate alive and continue to debate and compromise. i hope we will do this in the european parliament. i also hope that the member states and the commission will keep the debate alive.
for the verts/ale group. i thank the commissioner. debating with you is always fun! i am also always reinforced in my view that fair trade is better than free trade and, of course, that trade in solidarity with a weaker party is more important than trade that is formally fair and reciprocal. but now for the tdi, the trade and development index. by the way, maybe we should study each other's bookshelves and maybe figure out the background of a cup of rooibos tea sometime? if nothing else, you can come with me to the dump where i became politically active and meet my street children in brazil. back to the tdi. what is a european company? it's hard to define now, and therefore it might be hard to use it. which interest is a genuine community interest. the consumers? the voluntary organisations? small businesses? the big companies? it is not at all easy to define, which means that it is difficult to use the instrument today, except in certain obvious cases. there is a dimension to this which is completely missing and which i think would be very interesting if you could come back to when you come up with new proposals. could not ecological and social dumping be equated with direct dumping? what is the difference between a company being spared a billion euros worth of environmental and social regulations, or receiving a billion euros in state subsidies? it would be interesting if you could bring up a discussion with the wto and see if we can get any further on that issue.
thank you, mr president. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs very much for a very good job. it has been very exciting to follow them along the way. although i am in favour of more intergovernmental cooperation, i realise that there are times when we in the union must have as much equality of laws as possible. the legislative package on the marketing of products in the internal market is one such package, because what we produce in the eu and import into the eu flows freely in the internal market. for me, the safety of consumers in the market is of the utmost importance. i therefore welcome the proposals of the rapporteurs in the legislative package, which in some respects sharpens the commission's proposal. for example, my colleague mr schaldemose wants importers to be responsible for ensuring that the products they import comply with eu rules. i think this is particularly important now that we are also going to review the toy directive in view of the problems which have been present on the toy market recently. i think it is obvious that importers should be able to be held accountable and risk punishment if they import dangerous products. who else would it be? we must also change and strengthen the ce marking. although this is the most sensitive issue, i think the rapporteurs have made good progress. as my colleague mr schaldemose said, ce marking is not the solution to all our problems of internal market security. however, many consumers today believe that the ce mark means that products are safe, not least when it comes to toys and gadgets. we saw my colleague mccarthy demonstrate here with a coffee pot and a toy. it is our responsibility to ensure that the labelling is strengthened and that market surveillance really works in all member states. finally, i would like to emphasize once again that our consumers must come first, because without safe and secure consumers we cannot have a thriving market.
the rapporteur. - thank you, mr president. in view of the letter sent to all members by the european trade union movement last week, i would like to say that i can understand the views of the trade union movement on the question of whether there has been any consultation between the social partners and the commission. however, it is beyond our power to do anything about it. the content of this directive is not at all amended. what is happening is that implementation is delayed for four years. the reason is that certain, very important, medical devices might not be able to be used if the implementation takes place in april. studies are currently being carried out to see how this apparatus can be brought into line with the directive. that is why we supported the postponement of the directive by a unanimous vote in the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's legal system is not subject to any form of discrimination. the report does not change the substance of the matter but merges a number of different directives into a coherent text. we are naturally in favour of such simplification. it should be stressed, however, that our vote in favour does not mean that we are satisfied with the present legislative structure. we want to see in future higher minimum tobacco taxes and a real simplification of the regulatory framework. in addition, it should be ensured that the tax levels for different types of tobacco are neutral in terms of competition.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the eu needs to take these aspects into account in its counter-terrorism work and improve the knowledge of the causes of terrorist acts and radicalisation, which is currently limited. but this must be done with strict respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and in a manner appropriate to an open, democratic and law-abiding society. the fundamental rights such as freedom of the press, freedom of expression and freedom of association shall not be restricted in any way.
in writing. - the need to combat terrorism across borders with common means; however, the fight against terrorism must always be fought by legal and proportionate means. the cia's flights in europe, the use of torture as a form of execution and the drowning of prisoners, which the cia now admits to having done, and the establishment of special secret prisons must be strongly condemned. the eu should have acted much more forcefully than it has. but one thing is clear to me: our values should be the basis of our common legislation. we must also ensure that common legislation does not disturb or crowd out important constitutions, including freedom of expression. the report calls for the incorporation of a new definition in the framework decision, 'the prosecution of terrorism'. i think that would be unfortunate. not because there is no reason to ensure that all member states have good laws against incitement, but because it is difficult - if not impossible - to find a definition which would apply uniformly and which would not give rise to difficult problems of interpretation. on the one hand, there is the important task of finding ways to combat terrorism and save lives. on the other hand, there is the principle of freedom of expression and the ambition to maintain a high level of legal certainty in europe. it's about finding a reasonable balance.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, prime minister! the treatment of the 2005 eu constitution referendums in france and the netherlands respectively is an example of undemocratic tendencies in european politics. the political elite is not interested in listening to the people and respecting the will of the people unless the subjects kindly and obediently say yes to further eu federalism. in the context of the negotiations on the lisbon treaty, prime minister reinfeldt should have acted as a champion of democracy by pointing out that the result of the referendums actually means that the treaty has failed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro, the creation of a single currency and the introduction of a single currency. he did none of this. what about the swedish presidency in 2009? the overall objective should be to reform, modernise and make eu cooperation more efficient. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. instead of working for a narrower but more restrictive eu, the swedish government's aim seems to be to achieve a wider and more claws-fingered eu. in sweden, popular criticism of further eu federalism is widespread, but virtually non-existent, among the political elite. it is undeniable that the extent to which our elected representatives really represent the people is questionable. finally, i would offer fredrik reinfeldt a good bottle of alsacevin if he could give me one example of a law that could be adopted by the rejected eu constitution but not by the revised version. will you take the challenge, fredrik reinfeldt?
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! welcome to the house! this is where i belong. this is a dynamic place. here, policies are being formed that go straight into swedish society as well as other european societies. not because politics has disappeared from the citizenry, but because these are issues that we can only decide on together. for many of the great challenges of our time, the nation state is not enough. for those of us from sweden, which is a relatively new member state after all, there may be reason to remember that many of the problems and challenges we face are not problems that arise because of the eu but that fall on the eu, because the european union has proven successful in meeting the challenges of our time. hence the kosovo. hence the climate issue, where sweden has proved to be a country that can point to development instead of regulation to move society forward. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national and regional authorities. these are issues and areas that we can only deal with together. they are problems and challenges that come from our successes. that is why i also think it is good that the prime minister has made one point here, and i believe that this is what will shape the great idea of the european union in the years to come - that is openness. the openness to the world. it is openness to the outside world that enables us to shape the international order with values such as democracy and freedom in the context of enlargement, but also in terms of participation in international free trade negotiations and much more. as regards openness between member states, i think it is important to state that those who are against openness are also against the free movement of citizens and free opportunities. that's where the discrimination is. the good european idea is openness, and if we can achieve it, we will also ensure that we have an openness which will make the citizens feel that this is the europe of the citizens. this is a challenge for the swedish presidency and a challenge for this parliament and all the political groups here.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i, like everyone else, would like to thank prime minister reinfeldt for having you here. my first question concerns the environmental assessment of the gas pipeline in the baltic sea, one of the most polluted seas in the world, on which parliament recently held a hearing with several committees. sweden was the first country to introduce the sme environmental test. this issue is one of the most important environmental issues for sweden and the eu. will sweden require an additional option of land drainage to be subject to environmental assessment? the exploiters tell us in parliament that it will be too expensive. but both the prime minister and i come from stockholm where infrastructure and investment have all become perhaps almost twice as expensive. i do not think that a 10 to 15% increase in prices is a strong counter-argument. the environment is more important. my second question concerns cluster munitions, which are being debated in the oslo process and in wellington, new zealand, right now and in parliament last week, and it is also an important eu issue. i have received letters signed by many swedish organisations such as amnesty international, the churches through diakonia, the red cross, unicef and the swedish peace and united nations association demanding that the swedish jas bomb, bomb capsule 90, be treated as a cluster weapon and included in the international work for a comprehensive ban. what is the government's position on the jas bomb? is the prime minister saying that the 90th bomb pod is a cluster munition or not? will the prime minister act in the continuation of the oslo process? finally, i would like to know when the prime minister intends to act to stop the move here to strasbourg, after eu minister malmström's collection of one million signatures? should not parliament itself decide on the place of meeting and not the council? secondly, i would like to thank you most sincerely for the statement you made about turkey. finally, i would like to welcome the prime minister and the rest of the government back, often, under the swedish presidency next year!
prime minister! the fact that sweden got a new government in the autumn of 2006 has been noted in terms of its commitment to the eu. i would therefore like to thank the prime minister and the eu minister for the clear desire to make sweden a more active partner within the union, to belong to the core of the eu as the prime minister said. however, sweden is outside the euro area, which will be costly for us swedes both economically and, not least, politically. it is, mr prime minister, basically a matter of solidarity. so my question is: when will sweden become a full member of the eu? what's the timetable, mr prime minister? a favorite subject in sweden. we are now in strasbourg, a beautiful and appealing city whose history reminds us of the horrors of war. having said that, we know that millions of our citizens feel that this journey between brussels and strasbourg is not the best way to save the environment and money. a small appeal: could the swedish government under the presidency not dare to take the initiative to put an end to this trip?
mr president, i would like to thank you. here we go again with another swede who doesn't want to move to strasbourg. i also want a referendum on our treaty. i found out this morning that i was wearing a green sock and a blue sock. i wonder if the symbolism of it was that we would have some sort of new future alliance here between constellations other than the traditional ones. in order to get a green stocking from me, fredrik, you'll probably have to raise the ambition level on energy saving and on renewable energy. i've brought an example here. this lamp is an led lamp. it takes 12 seconds to screw it in. it takes 12 years to build a new nuclear power plant. what seems to be the easiest and fastest way to solve the climate problem? i also thought that when it comes to growth, we also have problems that we have to agree on. we are now importing historically large quantities of products that generate emissions in other countries. we need to take that into account in our climate work. then we're back in business. protectionism to protect companies it is wrong. but protectionism to protect the environment and human rights - that is the duty and responsibility of a politician in a free market. otherwise, people will become tools of the market instead of the market becoming a tool of the people. the best way for you to manifest popular participation in the future of the eu is to let the people show what they think in a referendum.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to welcome the prime minister of sweden to this parliament and to this debate on the future of europe. it is an important debate that affects 493 million citizens. it must therefore be debated and decisions taken, not only in parliament but among citizens. but for citizens to be involved in the debate, they must also have the opportunity to influence the future. without participation and influence, there is no commitment. how do we get the citizens involved? the answer is obvious, by asking them about the future and listening to the answers. a referendum on the lisbon treaty is therefore necessary if we are serious about a people's europe. too much eu legislation is today created by anonymous officials influenced by experts and lobby groups where citizens are not heard. it is time to give the citizens a voice. the prime minister made no mention of the vaxholm judgment. it has received a lot of attention, not only in sweden but in many other eu countries. this is natural, because it is not only a blow to the swedish model but an attack on the position of employees and trade unions throughout the eu. the ruling is a call to squeeze workers' wages to the lowest minimum levels. no country may impose conditions more favourable to workers than minimum protection. the result will be a two-tiered labour market. some employment benefits will apply only to domestic employees, while other rules apply to guest employees. this leads to both wage and employment dumping and discrimination. sweden can change this. sweden can defend the rights of workers and a social europe by requesting a derogation from the lisbon treaty for collective agreements. sweden can lead the way and make others follow. in conclusion, i would like to remind the swedish prime minister of one of the two most important issues for sweden in the run-up to eu membership. one of the most important priorities was gender equality. what has happened and does sweden want to be a leader in the future of gender equality? the question belongs to the debate on the future. because without women, europe has no future.
my colleagues! experience is a wonderful thing. it helps you recognize a mistake when you make it again. this time we must not make any mistakes with regard to the balkans. that is my first comment on the prime minister's opening speech in parliament. europe must speak with one voice on kosovo. my second comment concerns terrorism, where the open society must fight terrorism with the methods of the open society and with good self-confidence, and not fall prey to privacy-infringing measures. my third and final comment concerns the climate issue, where the european system is going to have to deal with perhaps the biggest and most difficult issue in the shortest decision time we have had for such a big subject. it is worth the risk that it will be like in the fairy tale of h. c. andersen, when we are going to final negotiations in copenhagen, that the emperor stands naked or walks naked through the streets of the city. the european legislation we need requires a concerted effort and cooperation between the council of ministers and the commission, and above all with parliament, which is something entirely new in the history of the european union. finally, it is a pleasure to see an active swedish government at the heart of the swedish european debate. welcome to the club.
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! we are discussing the future of europe, but the main question is who will decide that future. unfortunately, in the eu, the tradition since jean monnet is that the eu is built without the participation of the european peoples. the biggest fraud so far is that the eu's political establishment is putting forward the same proposal for how the eu should be governed and what the eu should do as the constitutional proposal that has already been rejected in referendums with high turnout and large 'no' majorities. i note that the liberal group leader here calls those who reject this treaty mad. he is saying that the majority of the dutch and the french are mad, as, of course, am i, who am standing here in the drawing room. i think the president should prevent such language in the future. the swedish prime minister says at home and here in the house that the agricultural aid in the eu budget should be reduced and cut and the march against supranationality stopped. that is the view of the swedish people. but in the council, his government supports the eu's development into a state and its eu parliamentarians consistently vote to move political power from the swedish people to brussels. this is not the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'd like to welcome fredrik reinfeldt. you spoke very wisely about the treaty, about enlargement and about the climate. i'll touch on what you didn't say. jacques delors once said that the single market will never work without a strong social dimension. he was right. that is why i was somewhat surprised when you yourself spoke about the social europe, and saw it as a contradiction between national systems and the regulatory framework we have in the eu. i see it just the opposite. we have a common labour market. we must then complement national labour law and national systems, otherwise it will not work. if you hold this view, i would like to give you some examples. is it the posting directive that's the problem? is it the employment directive or is it one of the agreements which the social partners have made at european level? the part-time directive? the parental leave directive? in concrete terms, the lack of balance between the market and politics was reflected in the laval case. the problem with the laval case is that the marketplace is overriding the rights of workers. you did well in sweden. so far you have handled that issue well, but as so many others have said here, this also affects other countries around the eu. if european initiatives are needed, will you also be on board to take them? we adopted a workplace safety strategy here last month. the target was one occupational inspector per 10 000 workers. sweden is going in the opposite direction, and will not meet this goal for a long time. in contrast, the share in sweden decreases by 27%. denmark, whose labour market is similar to that of sweden, has more than two occupational safety and health inspectors per 10 000 inhabitants. how is it that sweden is going in exactly the opposite direction? why don't you prioritize the work environment?
mr president, i would like to thank you. when a prime minister visits, many from the same country want to speak, and that's nice. but perhaps the president could try to help achieve a better geographical distribution during the 'catch the eye' procedure. there were hardly any speakers from southern europe here today, and sometimes the opposite is true when someone from southern europe comes here. it would be nice if you could help to create a better balance.
madam president, after seven years of work, the lisbon strategy is partly a failure. this is mostly due to implementation difficulties. i will give you some examples on the internal market. regarding the energy package, we had to deliver totally new legislation. when we decided to increase the budget line on research, we only got 50% of what we had decided we needed. we have a european paradox in innovation where we put money in but we do not get the industrialisation and the jobs that we wanted. we talked highly of the smes but they are still struggling with the same regulation as the big global industries. we know that gender equality improves economic growth but we still have a lot to do in this area. we know that the transport sector is very bad in europe and we still have a lot to do when it comes to railways and transportation time through europe. it is time to change this. the first thing to consider, mr turk and mr almunia – and maybe you can pass this message on to mr verheugen – is what will be in the text of the resolution on climate change at the spring summit. we all agree that climate change can be a win-win situation, where we can solve environmental problems and where we can create new jobs. we have already delivered decisions on this in parliament and now we are waiting to see what the commission and the council will deliver in the spring summit. there are still 18 million unemployed europeans, more than 18 million people unemployed, and we know that smes, clean tech, innovation and services can deliver the jobs they need. will you give them the chance?
thank you very much, mr president. mr commissioner, mr president of the council! i agree that the lisbon strategy has delivered and been successful for a number of years, but i do not take it as a revenue stream for not making changes. first of all, it is exactly as udo bullmann says. growth is currently slowing and inflation is rising. the situation is not easy. secondly, things have happened. first, we have the whole debate on climate policy that is going to change policy for all of us in the eu. i am optimistic about it because it will also mean new investments and a new type of job that is more sustainable in the long term and based on a high level of knowledge. this should have been reflected more in the lisbon strategy and the guidelines. secondly, we have had a debate on 'flexicurity' for a number of years which also resulted in good guidelines in the council, but this was not reflected in the integrated guidelines. you have the same old guidelines as you used to have. you could have taken into account the whole process that has been. thirdly, i would like to mention an aspect which has been raised by anne von lanker among others. it is true that things have been going well for some time in the eu, but it is not true that things have been going well for everyone. there's a lot of alienation. there are also jobs that are not always good and that do not provide a living. there are regions around europe where developments are not so positive. we must link the integrated guidelines with a social dimension. it is not that there is a contradiction between this social dimension and development for jobs and growth. they're each other's condition.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is important that the eu grows, that growth is strong and that jobs are created. this creates the conditions for our union to become more legitimate. in recent years, the eu has also done better than most. the eu is also doing better than, say, the united states. we know that the single market and the euro have created completely different conditions for a growing europe. there is still a lot to do, as many have said. let me give you a concrete example. it may be a little chauvinistic, but still. in my home country, the swedish government has embarked on a growth policy which has created up to 100 000 new jobs, including through targeted measures such as reducing taxes and employer contributions. one proposal was just to grant reduced employer's contributions to service companies in a number of sectors which are not competitive on the international market. the hope was to create 17 000 new jobs in this way. the commission has now effectively put a stop to this by requiring a limitation in the proposal which makes it so cumbersome that the swedish government will probably have to withdraw the proposal in its entirety. i find it difficult to understand the commission's actions for two reasons. in the shadow of a looming global recession, most governments are of course responding with various types of stimulus packages to safeguard employment and purchasing power. this proposal was intended to give a much-needed boost to the unusually underdeveloped swedish service sector, which had hopefully had a good stabilising effect on our economy as a whole. i think this is very much contrary to the general spirit of the lisbon strategy. if we are to be this competitive economy, the most competitive economy in the world by 2010, then we must also dare to try new ways. i would like to ask you directly, commissioners, why are you preventing new jobs from being created in this way?
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the lisbon strategy is now emerging from a sluggish initial phase and is beginning to generate the optimism and will that we need. the authors have managed to keep their focus on the important things and not fall victim to the parliamentary mania of drawing everything in. there are different ways of meeting the challenges of globalisation. some people stick their heads in the sand like ostriches and think everything's gonna be all right. others are wiser and follow the lead of the authors of the report, seeing opportunities and improving their own abilities. the immediate and most important thing now is to at least ensure that the member states live up to their own commitments. that is, to monitor the internal market, to ensure that member states implement and enforce decisions taken, to ensure that the rules are justified, not too narrow and not too expensive for smes. we should also stick to key guidelines, such as simplification, benchmarking, comparisons and competition. this will require increased cooperation between authorities at local and regional level as well. this is good for citizens, it is good for businesses and it contributes to integration. the systematic monitoring of free movement is necessary if we are to make the labour market flourish. measuring performance is a step on the way forward. the eu gains its legitimacy by delivering, not least, quality of life for its citizens. this requires a stimulating business climate, to which the lisbon strategy can contribute if it is implemented in a conscious way. the commission is responsible for putting pressure on the member states. finally, i am convinced that the commission will find a reasonable solution to the swedish problem of employers' contributions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's strategy for central asia is a major step forward. strengthening our joint presence through a special representative and the plans to set up delegations in kyrgyzstan and tajikistan will give us better opportunities for intensive dialogue with individual countries and will change the way we work in the region. central asia will play an increasing role, not least as has been said here in terms of access to energy not directly or indirectly controlled by russia. the region is made up of new states which need support in developing and strengthening their democracy, in fighting crime and in stopping the drug traffic to both russia and the eu that some countries in the region represent. at the same time, these countries are of course important partners in combating a global breeding ground for terrorism. the eu has an opportunity here to show its foreign policy advantage, using all the tools of soft policy, both aid and trade. in addition, the eu can help build democratic institutions and a functioning rule of law that respects human rights and a freedom of expression and press worthy of the name. the central asian countries have a strong interest in creating an opportunity to diversify their oil and gas exports. here we must, on the eu side, come up with viable and financed alternatives to russian and chinese gas pipelines. the eu must take its responsibility for our common energy security. otherwise, all the joint efforts run the risk of being foiled. more russian-tailed oil and gas pipelines from central asia is not what i believe is the energy independence that we in the eu should be striving for.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we are in favour of the new treaty. however, we recognize that the fact that two member states rejected the draft constitution meant that we had to make changes. we therefore do not share the view that it is regrettable that the flag and the anthem were removed from the treaty. unlike the majority in this parliament, we believe that it is good that 'emergency brakes' are introduced in decision-making in areas of national sovereignty. we are supporters of the principle of subsidiarity and therefore reject the european parliament's demands for referendums in the member states. this is a matter for each member state to decide. finally, we would like to comment on the vote on amendment no 36 concerning the laval case. we voted against the first part, because we believe that there are differences between the old treaty and the lisbon treaty, for example in the charter of rights, which among other things establishes the right to strike in accordance with national practice. we support the wording of the bill of rights, and we also support the second part of the amendment which protects the right to conflict. we would like to point out that this view is shared by our political group in this parliament, which voted against, because the report is about the treaty and not the laval case.
in writing. - the majority in this parliament once again shows how far from reality it is. evidently, results of referendums are worthless if they go against the will of the political establishment. we in junilist are in favour of a referendum in sweden on the lisbon treaty. whether other member states hold referendums is first and foremost a matter for each member state to decide. the whole process of a new eu treaty has been a scandal. a convention, whose working methods have been heavily criticised, drew up a draft eu constitution. then there has been the evasion of debate, the tricking and the binding of the people to push through an even more federalist treaty despite the french and dutch people's rejection. we want to see a new treaty based on the eu being essentially an intergovernmental cooperation. we have therefore voted against the parliament's report on the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - as in the past on the new eu treaties, i chose to depart from my group and voted against the report on the lisbon treaty. there are certainly a number of improvements in the proposal, but i am against the union's current direction towards greater supranationality. i want european cooperation at the intergovernmental level. i strongly support the idea of international cooperation to solve common problems. there are important tasks which we must carry out jointly, not least in the field of the environment, human trafficking and social dumping. but i think that the proposal strengthens the primacy of eu law over national law, that it takes more power away from the member states and that it gives more power to the larger countries than to the smaller ones. this is something i'm against. i voted against the amendment which called for the eu to decide on a union-wide referendum because i believe that it is up to each member state to decide this for itself.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty is a crucial step towards ensuring a more efficient and well-functioning european union. i therefore welcome the fact that we in the european parliament voted jointly on the report on the lisbon treaty. it means a clearer decision-making structure and more power for the eu's only elected assembly, the european parliament, a strengthened common foreign policy and new posts, such as the high representative for foreign affairs and the president of the european council. the treaty is a profound change and i therefore supported the proposal for a pan-european referendum, an interesting alternative to a swedish referendum which i believe is necessary to give citizens the opportunity to express their views on matters of importance to them.
in writing. - the constitution should be rejected. we need a new constitution, not just a new name. a fundamental rewrite is needed, which, like a constitution in the usual sense, limits and clarifies the power of the court of justice of the european union and the role of the eu. it is important to define what issues are of a transnational nature, i.e. issues such as free trade, climate change, the fight against international crime, terrorism and integration. it is noteworthy that in all these areas england has been driving the development of the eu. in my view, sweden should demand the same exemption as england has received, both its opt-in and opt-out clauses. there is no reason to treat sweden differently. the citizens of sweden have voted no to the euro, and it would be reasonable for the next treaty to make it clear that sweden is not obliged to participate in monetary cooperation. none of this is in the present proposal, which is why i have voted against the report.
in writing. - this report recommends that the respective national population and housing censuses be harmonised to a level that is easily absurd. we believe that it is up to the member states to decide whether they wish to register everything from the generational composition of the private household to the distance between the permanent residence and the green and recreational areas. we believe that both the council regulation and the parliament's report deal with proposals which are too detailed and which infringe on privacy. we have therefore voted against both the amended parliament's proposal and the final vote.
in writing. - we have voted today on the report by mrs juknevičienė on the population and housing censuses. we chose to vote no in the final vote. the member states are capable of dealing with census and housing issues themselves, and this is an area where the eu does not need to intervene.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the proposal is motivated by good intentions to make it easier to compare population and housing census statistics. however, the final results are extremely far-reaching in the information sought. the commission proposed that each member state collect data on its citizens, such as sexual orientation, the date of women's first marriage and current marriage, ethnicity, religion and the number of live births. the fact that our commission is presenting a proposal which contains such privacy-infringing issues and which in practice involves the registration of citizens is highly significant. parliament clarified some of the most far-reaching issues today. i have voted against the motion as a whole, however, because it still goes too far.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be more involved in the process of european integration. this is also reflected in the final result. the report does, however, contain a lot of important and necessary points, which i was happy to support. this applies in particular to the more offensive elements which show that parliament is keeping up with the times, such as environmental issues and the link with growth. the debate on flexicurity, which has now gathered momentum, also puts the finger on the important - perhaps the most important - question of how competitiveness and security can be combined. as the report states, we are not building the future on protectionism and bureaucracy but on openness, transparency and good conditions for workers and businesses alike. however, i would like to make it clear that my vote in favour of amendment no 12 is in no way to be interpreted as supporting the establishment of minimum wages in the eu. it was, however, a clarification that collective agreements have a place in the european model. i also made this clear today in amendment no 32 to the report on the integrated guidelines for growth and employment, which dealt specifically with this issue.
in writing. - the lisbon strategy has now been in operation since 2000, and the member states have not yet seen any clear success. the current proposal sets out a new plan which will run until 2013. i believe in institutional competition. there are ambitions in the lisbon strategy that are good and worth pursuing, such as the proposals for increased investment in research and development. the parts dealing with 'social europe' do not belong at eu level and should be left to the individual member states to decide. the resolution also contains a number of vague texts which allow the commission to interpret and justify measures which we have not asked for. my basic view is that the countries themselves should design the growth strategy that they democratically choose. some take a social democratic line, others a very liberal and market-oriented line. we have to respect both. the main thing is that the decision should be taken at national level. i have therefore decided to reject the proposal in its entirety.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. however, we voted against amendment no 32 by the green group on minimum wages as part of the european model. we understand that the issue of minimum wages is important in many of the eu member states. however, we believe that each member state should decide how to deal with this issue. in sweden, we solve it best through collective agreements negotiated by the social partners.
in writing. − this own-initiative report addresses several challenges facing the future of europe, such as increased globalisation, an ageing population and climate change. several of the proposed measures appear to be reasonable and could be a possible path for a member state to take. the junilist is against complicated tax systems, social exclusion and environmental destruction. however, it is up to each member state to decide how it wants to shape its policies to meet the challenges ahead. the most successful solutions emerge through institutional competition, examples which can inspire and stimulate voluntary action in other member states. we have voted against this report because it deals with areas which are the political responsibility of the member states.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of a report setting out the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs 20082010. on the one hand, i was pleased to find amendments from the socialist group which stated the need to create a business-friendly europe, especially for small businesses. on the other hand, the same group also proposes much stricter regulations in the financial field, rules and conditions which are supposed to protect the consumer but which, in too large doses, lead to a reduction in the consumer's returns. that attitude is likely to be more of a hindrance than a help, and i have therefore consistently voted against proposals of that kind. if europe's vision of being a world leader in competitiveness is ever to become a reality, much more aggressive efforts will also have to be made to modernise the labour market, to promote research and training and to exploit the opportunities offered by a 'greener' economy. that is why i voted with the greens in favour of environmental taxes at eu level, even though i defended the independence of the european central bank against their recurrent attacks. if the recent financial turbulence has shown anything, it is the benefit of a strong central bank that can withstand short-term solutions, not to mention the stabilizing effect of participating in a large currency area.
for the pse group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur who has done a very good groundwork but has also managed the negotiations between the various political groups in an excellent way. this is, as someone said earlier, a great challenge. not a threat, but a challenge to the european union. i shall try to stick to the three main areas which were and are the structure of the rapporteur's report. first, the number of births. we have a low birth rate in europe, and i share the view that this is largely due to a lack of political decision-making. it's about men and women today wanting to be, and needed to be, in the workforce, but at the same time wanting to be parents and have children. we must encourage this combination in the member states so that parents, both men and women, can combine work and parenting. it is about parental leave benefits based on the principle of income loss, linked to working life, at a high level so that you can be at home and not have to suffer financially. secondly, we need a high-quality, extended childcare. we've got a long way to go. we have targets, but few member states are currently meeting the targets for the expansion of childcare. then there are the older people in the labour market. it's a paradox that we enter the workforce later and leave it earlier. we must create the conditions for various measures in the field of working conditions, in terms of the possibility of continuing training and in terms of flexible solutions at the border between work and retirement, to enable parents to remain in the working world. finally, migration: we need people from other parts of the world in our communities to develop and maintain our welfare communities. we must therefore create an integration policy where they are integrated into our societies and not live in exclusion. we must help with this policy, because it is not contrary to our welfare states. on the contrary, it is a prerequisite for their development.
for the gue/ngl group. good afternoon. one of the main issues when we discuss scientific cooperation with africa is how african countries can defend themselves against climate change. as the un panel on climate change has noted, africa may be the continent most vulnerable to climate change. this is actually happening right here and now. crops are burned. the desert is expanding. lakes and streams are drying up, and climate refugees now number in the millions on the african continent. many of the conflicts that exist in africa today are the result of the stress and strain that climate change brings. one of the great ironies of the climate problem is that those who pollute the least are the ones who suffer the most. ethiopia, for example, emits 0.1 tons of carbon dioxide per capita per year, while my own country, sweden, emits over 6 tons per capita per year. the eu average is about 10 tonnes. so sweden is emitting 60 times more, and the eu is emitting 100 times more than ethiopia, just to take a concrete example. from this point of view, we in europe have a huge responsibility. on the one hand we must drastically reduce our own emissions, and on the other we must do everything we can to help developing countries take action against climate change. tonight we are debating how to have a well-functioning scientific cooperation with africa. i think we should ask ourselves, self-critically, here and now: are we really doing all we can to support the african countries? are we really doing everything we can to transfer, for example, modern and environmentally friendly technology and know-how to african countries, and when we negotiate trade agreements, are we taking account first of all of our own companies or of african companies who want to trade with us on fair terms? unfortunately, at least i cannot give a positive answer to these questions. much remains to be done. what, for example, about our intellectual property and patent laws? in november, in our resolution before the bali negotiations, the european parliament stated that 'the european parliament recognises that licensing fees for intellectual property rights in clean technology areas can be an obstacle to the transfer of such technology to developing countries'. let me give you an example. 75 percent of the wind power technology in the world is controlled by four companies. yeah, only four companies in the whole world. three of these companies are european. the fourth is from the united states. now, when many developing countries want to expand wind power, they have to use old and unpatented technology. they simply cannot afford the most modern and environmentally friendly technology. much of modern technology is simply locked into our own legislation. this, of course, benefits a few large companies that control the patents. but what good is this to angola, botswana or rwanda? i want a clear answer from the commission tonight. are you doing anything to make the laws on intellectual property rights and patents more flexible? what are you doing to make technology more easily transferable? finally, another example of these shortcomings is the so-called flexible mechanisms. we in the developed world can shift some of our climate responsibility onto the developing world. the aim, if you take it lightly, is to transfer technology and environmental activities to developing countries. but according to a new report we received last year from the environment committee, less than 2% of the cdm projects go to african countries. the majority of it has gone to projects that have not really been very useful at all. what is the commission's view of the flexible mechanisms and the cdm projects, the clean development mechanism? are you prepared to fundamentally review these mechanisms, as we in the european parliament have called for? how can africa benefit more from technology transfer in the future?
in writing. − we do not agree with the mutual recognition principle as a guarantor for advanced consumer, social or environmental rights. the principle says that if the product is accepted somewhere in europe, it cannot be denied access to another member state unless the authorities can provide evidence that the application of a national technical rule is justified. however, the criteria for exceptions to the principle are already established by eu court rulings. and these apply to all member states, regardless of whether or not we adopt the goods package. in addition to that, consumer rights at eu level are strengthened with the goods package. furthermore, we are against any measures taken in the goods package that may give political support to a future harmonisation of criminal law at eu level. having taking all this into consideration, we have decided to vote in favour of the reports.
in writing. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the junilists express their sympathy for the civilian population affected by the conflict, but it is only through the un that this conflict can be resolved with a broad international response, not through the eu.
in writing. − junilista supports the un human rights council and the important work of this body. however, we oppose the wording of article 34 which insists that each eu member state state state the eu's position on these issues. each eu member state is an independent member of the un and therefore has the right to express its own opinion. we have therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the future of the european union. however, we consider that the report is too broad and addresses aspects that go beyond what is relevant to demographic trends. we are also reacting to various proposals for tax relief for companies that provide day care and for people to be able to work from home. we have, however, voted in favour of the report because it also deals with the essential aspects of the challenge facing europe.
in writing. - many parts of europe are facing demographic challenges. however, these should be solved by national measures, not by quadrilateral eu proposals which may be appropriate in individual countries but may be inappropriate in other member states. several eu countries, including sweden, have also largely overcome low birth rates and demographic problems, including through well-developed welfare policies and immigration. the member states who so wish can benefit from studying sweden and the other nordic countries and following the measures taken by them.
in writing. - the demographic challenge facing europe is enormous. as a theme, it is certainly a relevant discussion to have at european level - i myself did so as rapporteur for an opinion on flexicurity. however, a basic prerequisite is that the discussion should take its cue from the fact that most of the measures proposed, such as a delay in the retirement age, a wise family policy, good conditions for parental leave, etc., fall within the scope of the subsidiarity principle. a number of proposals in the broad range of solutions mentioned in the report are being put into practice and have worked well in sweden. however, this does not mean that they would automatically fare as well in other parts of europe. the fundamental problem with the castex report is therefore not its intention, but that most of what is discussed is policy which should be pursued by the member states - sometimes at municipal level. that is why i voted in favour of amendments which stressed the principle of subsidiarity and abstained from the final vote.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the consumer is vulnerable on the internet. when you want to use popular services, you cannot select "you may not record data about me". nor can you find out what happens to your data. you do a search, you buy something. when one company can combine all this information, it can have a huge market advantage and a huge amount of information about everyone who uses the internet. the same is true if you want to download a movie legally on the internet. then you have to use a corporate software, namely windows. we can't protect ourselves from these big companies unless the legislature helps us. data protection, how light-hearted is that when, for example, the fight against copyright infringement must also be included in this? a filesharing company gets their computer searched and all their private information searched. this information is then sent to the media companies to find out what was copyrighted and what was not. when media companies get access to police investigative material, how can you protect consumers? it is time to step up data protection drastically.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by extending my gratitude to the committee on fisheries and in particular the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, for his report. on 23 may 2007, the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau initialled a fisheries partnership agreement for a period of four years. this agreement forms part of the series of ec ‘tuna agreements’ in the atlantic ocean. the financial contribution is fixed at eur 7 million per year. of this financial contribution, 35%, or eur 2.45 million, is earmarked to support the definition and implementation of a fisheries sector policy in guinea-bissau, with a view to introducing responsible and sustainable fishing. in addition, the european union will pay an annual specific contribution of eur 500 000 to improve sanitary conditions in the fisheries sector and to strengthen monitoring, control and surveillance in the waters of guinea-bissau. in addition to the total amount of eur 7.5 million, the protocol also contains a special financial provision for a supplementary allocation of eur 1 million maximum per year, aiming at improving the use of fishing opportunities by ship owners. this new protocol provides fishing possibilities for shrimps and for fish, in particular cephalopods, up to a total tonnage of 4 400 t per year for each of the two categories. furthermore, the agreement covers licences for 19 tuna seiners, 14 pole-and-line vessels and 4 surface longliners. the agreement gives the community a solid legal and political framework for monitoring the activities of the european union fleet in the guinea-bissau fishing area. it also allows the community to support the development of the sector in that country, to the mutual benefit of both parties. turning to the amendments proposed, let me state that, whereas in many instances we share the objectives outlined therein, i am unable to accept them for the following reasons. i fully share the concern that the flow of information provided to the european parliament should be as complete as possible. however, the commission already provides all the requested information, in line with the current interinstitutional arrangements. moreover, every evaluation report, as well as the reports on the results of negotiations and of joint committee meetings, is immediately transmitted to the committee on fisheries. in addition, i myself inform the committee on fisheries regularly of the state of play of international negotiations in special, restricted ‘closed-door’ sessions. the issue of reporting requirements by the fleet is also being dealt with, since we have proposed a legal basis that will allow the commission to refuse licence requests on the grounds of poor reporting from member states. this draft regulation is currently going through the adoption procedure in the institutions. regarding the proposal to reject the fisheries agreements in general on the grounds that they are not sustainable, it should be recalled that the council, in its july 2004 conclusions, indicated that the aim of the new fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) is to contribute to the sustainable management of fisheries resources. as a matter of fact, fpas only provide for access to stocks that are not fully exploited by the national fleet of the particular country in question. the commission believes that the fpas can and do provide a political and legal framework that assists the efforts of partner countries in implementing a policy of sustainable and responsible fishing in their waters. finally, with respect to the proposal that vessels should pay the total cost of the agreement in proportion to their catches, let me just say that we have established a reasonable cost-sharing balance between shipowner contributions and the community compensation. this approach is in line with the july 2004 council conclusions on fisheries partnership agreements, on which parliament gave its opinion. in our system, the shipowner licence fees are indeed calculated on the basis of their respective catches.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the fisheries agreements are only intended to safeguard the short-term economic interests of another of the eu's industries that is not up to par internationally. there are three reasons why we must vote against the fisheries agreements tomorrow. the first reason is the environment. the depletion of west african waters is soon a fact. biodiversity is under serious threat, and the continuation of this insane fisheries policy will have long-term effects on the environment both locally and globally. my second objection is justified on economic grounds. european taxpayers are forced to subsidize the unprofitable fishing fleets by millions of euros every year. where is the economic benefit? where's the sustainability? where is the european added value? if, instead, vessels had to pay their own costs, fishing pressure would be reduced, and both taxpayers and the environment would be the big winners. the third reason is the importance of fisheries for local development in the partner countries. fishing is the only source of income for many. the vacuuming of the seas creates an unsustainable situation for the local population, which cannot compete with the heavily subsidised european vessels. it is time to end these fisheries agreements immediately.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a swedish member with a background in the trade union movement, i would like to begin by emphasizing what hannes swoboda said: if we are to avoid the criticism of the laval judgment being directed against the treaty, the commission must make it clear that a free market in the provision of services is not a threat to the rights of trade unions to combat social dumping; i just wanted to say this, because it is a topical issue. as regards the political strategy for 2009, this is when we must begin to seriously discuss the mid-term review of the long-term budget. in some areas, however, i believe we cannot wait, but must start to change priorities now in the 2009 budget. i am thinking in particular of two areas. the first is the climate issue. as rapporteur for the budget in the committee on industry, i believe that it is not enough to say that the climate issue is a political priority. this must also have an impact on budgetary priorities. we must show that we are prepared to take concrete european action, even at a cost. it may be a matter of getting down to business with modern energy and environmental technologies. it may be a matter of changing the use of the structural funds or the seventh framework programme, but there is much to be done. the second area i would like to mention is the western balkans, particularly kosovo. in view of the new situation, we simply need to develop a long-term strategy for how we will operate in the western balkans. it is unreasonable that we have such a rigid budgetary model that the smallest budgetary margins are in the areas where the needs are greatest.
mr president, we want a europe that is competitive, environmentally friendly and socially responsible. however, there is tough competition in the world market, and to be able to participate in this competition we need european projects and we need to pool our resources, like the us did when it decided to put a man on the moon. i think that the european institute of innovation and technology can be our platform for a ‘putting-a-man-on-the-moon’ project, meaning the connection between excellent researchers and the pooling of our resources. the areas defined so far, like climate change and telecom, are areas that have importance for europe and for european competitiveness and how we can have this future for europe that we so much need for the european citizens. i think that the change where we guarantee academic training is extremely important. finally, i would like to support mr chatzimarkakis in his wish to use the premises we already have.
in writing. - we oppose the current cap and we oppose changes of little consequence in principle within the existing system. we are calling for a comprehensive review and rethinking of the whole of the cap. these two reports preserve the existing structures of the cap. that's why we can't support them. the whole cap is an absurd creation and must be abolished.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet ratified the convention. the contribution to the united kingdom for the 2007 floods should be provided within the existing budget, as there is room for re-prioritisation, for example by not increasing the budget for galileo.
in writing. − past experience shows that the eu is not capable of managing disaster aid. junilista believes that the allocation from the fund can often reduce the incentives for member states to correct the problems underlying the need for assistance. as regards the creation of a budget line for expenditure in exceptional circumstances, the junilists believe that this invention of paper reinforces the impression that the eu is striving to become a superpower with influence over everything that happens in the world. the junilist is against this. fortex goes too far in coordinating member states' border controls and immigration policies. the junilista is opposed to any expansion of its activities. for the reasons i have given, i cannot support the draft amending budget and have therefore decided to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. − past experience shows that the eu is not capable of managing disaster aid. junilista believes that the allocation from the fund can often reduce the incentives for member states to correct the problems underlying the need for assistance. as regards the creation of a budget line for expenditure in exceptional circumstances, the junilists believe that this invention of paper reinforces the impression that the eu is striving to become a superpower with influence over everything that happens in the world. the junilist is against this. fortex goes too far in coordinating member states' border controls and immigration policies. the junilista is opposed to any expansion of its activities. however, the report also states that for the time being, funds should not be transferred from the operational part of galileo's finances to the administrative part. in this context, the report will support the establishment of a budgetary structure within the research executive agency and the european research council respectively. i believe that these issues are of great importance and have therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole, despite objections in principle to the other amendments contained in the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the eu's partnership agreement would have serious consequences for the country's economy if it were to be cancelled at one stroke. we take scientific reports that the oceans are being fished out very seriously. we therefore also do not see eu fisheries agreements as a long-term sustainable way of fighting poverty and supporting development. we want to change the eu's fisheries policy so that it leads to the rebuilding of fish stocks. we also want to support sustainable development in the countries that currently have fisheries agreements with the eu as a major source of income, through changes in eu trade and aid policies and through various forms of partnership. shipowners should be responsible for the cost of the contracts they use themselves, and we want to see a continuing change in that direction. that is why we voted for amendment no 8, even though this change should be made in a broader context. guinea-bissau is one of the poorest countries in africa. we want to stress the importance of the eu finding other, more long-term and sustainable ways of supporting guinea-bissau, as the eu's fisheries agreements currently account for 30% of the country's gdp.
in writing. - a sudden breakdown of the eu's partnership agreement would have serious consequences for several developing countries and for many stakeholders. we cannot therefore simply say no to the agreements the eu has with other countries on fisheries. however, we take scientific reports that the oceans are being fished out very seriously. we therefore want to change the eu's fisheries policy so that it leads to the rebuilding of fish stocks. this must be done in a major review. we do not believe that the eu fisheries agreement is a long-term sustainable way of fighting poverty and supporting development. we therefore want to support sustainable development in the countries that currently have fisheries agreements with the eu as a major source of income, through changes in eu trade and aid policies and through various forms of partnership. shipowners should be responsible for the cost of the contracts they use themselves, and we want to see a continuing change in that direction. that is why we voted for amendment no 8, even though this change should be made in a broader context.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the transport sector. the reason is that the experience of this type of agreement is highly doubtful. low-income countries are offered a lump sum of money and in return their fishing waters are opened to commercial fishing from eu member states, primarily countries in southern europe. the resources transferred are ridiculously small in relation to the fish caught; moreover, the risk of unsustainable fishing is obvious. another argument is that local coastal fisheries are usually adversely affected. we hope that it will be possible to evaluate these fisheries agreements as soon as possible and replace them with sustainable systems within the framework of the eu sustainable development strategy (sds).
in writing. - we believe that the proposal for a common speed limit on eu motorways could have a positive environmental impact in that speed may be reduced in those member states which do not have regulated speed limits on their motorways. it is important, however, that no member state is forced to give up subsidiarity by speeding up its roads. it must always be possible for member states to set lower speed limits than the european standard.
mr president, i would like to thank you. vital and sustainable development requires attention to the situation of women. the participation of women is essential for positive development. women living and working in rural areas, like women in other settings, live in an unequal society. therefore, gender equality work is equally important for all women in all different environments and life situations. in this report i would like to draw particular attention to the importance of supporting the gue/ngl amendments tabled by mrs ilda figueiredo, in particular amendment no 9, which shows that the gender equality issue must also be the subject of a necessary review of the cap. without the active participation of women, we will not be able to achieve the objectives of sustainable economic growth. as i said, this is true in all kinds of habitats. we need gender equality for the survival of the countryside, we need it for women and we need it for the future.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? biogas can play an important role in the fight against climate change, not only for producing heat and electricity but also for powering vehicles. biogas can be produced from, for example, manure and household waste. today, there is a great potential for a significant increase in the production of biogas. we in the committee on the environment want to support this possibility and to see much more biogas in the future. however, increasing biogas production must not become an end in itself. as regards waste, the main priority must still be to reduce the total amount of waste. if we're going to reduce waste, we have to -- which is like swearing in church -- reduce our consumption. i would like to take the opportunity to ask a few questions to commissioner mariann fischer boel, who is with us here tonight: does the commission have a strategy to reduce the ever-growing waste mountain in the eu? does the commission also have a strategy for reducing the consumption of a large number of goods which we do not really need? we in the environment committee also want to see a certification for sustainable biogas. such a certification system must cover the whole chain, i.e. from the field to the car. social and environmental factors must be the basis for such certification. i welcome the commission's proposal for a new directive on renewable fuels, but more needs to be done to promote the role of biogas. i have one more question for mariann fischer boel: what do you think of such a certification? this and other environmental issues underline the importance of public accountability. most of us in this room agree that we want to strengthen the role of biogas. more cars and trucks could roll up with biogas in their tanks. biogas reduces greenhouse gas emissions from cars by as much as 90 percent. in addition, particulate emissions are reduced, and cars run more quietly with gas in the tank. however, if we are serious about our environmental efforts, we cannot take responsibility for the market. for example, if more cars are to run on biogas, there must be gas stations where gas can be refuelled. the state must ensure that the mackerel take responsibility through legislation and temporary grants. in my home country, sweden, the last northernmost point is in uppsala, which is in the middle of the country. this means that we have over 100 miles of road without the possibility for forward-thinking motorists to refuel with biogas. of course, that's not sustainable. we all have a responsibility to promote biogas: the eu by setting guidelines, the member states to stimulate national production and, not least, the municipalities which should build more biogas plants.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the united nations climate panel says that humans are emitting greenhouse gases on a scale that is changing the world's climate. the eu has accepted that humanity must therefore reduce these emissions dramatically over the next few decades and has said that the eu should be at the forefront of this global change. so what are we gonna do? it is with horror that i note how the political clout and the ambition to transfer political power to the eu institutions now threaten to be unleashed. we in the european parliament should not demand subsidies for investments in biogas. we have no idea whether biogas should be taxed at the expense of other alternatives. we will have emission targets set in each eu country, as we have done, and then let the countries themselves seek effective ways of achieving these targets. the classic european solution is institutional competition not central control.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i would like to thank bart staes for a good report, which we in the gue/ngl of course support. one of the objectives of this report is to reduce the use of pesticides by improving statistics, which is an urgent task. the use of poisons and chemicals in agriculture is increasing in europe. the toxins remain in the food we and our children eat. it happens to all of us. this is something that should concern all who care about their health and our environment. in my country, the environmental movement has a long-term vision of chemical-free agriculture. unfortunately, that goal seems far away today. not only in the eu but also in sweden, the use of chemicals in agriculture is increasing. i have a specific question for commissioner joaquín almunia: if a country wants to ban a chemical in agriculture, shouldn't it be allowed to do so? unfortunately, there are other examples of member states which have wanted to prevent the use of certain pesticides. however, your commission has prevented them from doing so, why? should not environmental and public health considerations take precedence over the need for total harmonization?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the description we have heard from the commission and the council today is a very different reality from that in which the majority of citizens live, a reality which shows that poverty and the gaps between different groups have increased. more people have been employed, we are told, but there is no mention of the type of jobs that have increased. these are usually low-paying jobs that are impossible to support themselves and any children. it's a job with precarious and insecure terms of employment. that is not the model of society that we on the left want or accept. we know that there are other ways to go, ways towards solidarity and justice and a society for all citizens. any idea of a social europe was shattered by the ecj's vaxholm and viking line judgments. the judgments clearly stated that within the eu, the requirements and interests of free movement and the single market take precedence over the interests of employees. the effect of the judgments is social dumping. workers from different countries are pitted against each other. serious entrepreneurs who want to pay decent wages and offer reasonable working conditions are being pushed out. the court leaves no room for doubt. but why are the commission and the council passive on this issue? why approve a treaty that further strengthens the interests of the market against those of the wage-earners? the vaxholm judgment gave three unequivocal answers, namely, first, that member states may not decide on the labour market, and, second, that employees may not take military action which disturbs the internal market; the court thus deprives employees of the only real defence of the principle of equal pay for equal work. thirdly, companies that set up in eu countries with lower wage levels will be allowed to send staff to other countries to work for those lower wages. trade unions, political organisations, ngos and millions of citizens have realised that a people's europe is possible, but when will the commission and the council realise the same?
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is difficult to take responsibility for the future of europe. we will survive globalisation and the competition it brings. we're going to tackle the tough demographic issues of a retirement boom and a shrinking population by 2020, the same year we're going to meet the environmental and climate goals that we've set, the 20-20-20 goals. we must ensure that we have economically sustainable development in europe. i am glad that when we deal with questions of the lisbon strategy, we are dealing with a unified approach to sustainable economic development, economic growth, environmental responsibility and socially responsible policies. we see that concerted efforts bring results. it's fun. we also see that a concerted strategy is of the utmost importance. the cooperation that has been established between the european parliament and the national parliaments is of the utmost importance. i would like to point out the new area included in this year's resolution, namely transport policy, which has a lot to answer for in terms of climate objectives and also growth. we are in a situation where we can create more jobs in europe through an efficient, sustainable and environmentally friendly transport policy. the fact is that the different policy areas are interrelated. it is impossible to express a view on the 20-20-20 climate policy objectives without also having it reflected in the council resolution on the lisbon strategy. i therefore hope that when we see the outcome of the spring summit we can have a comprehensive policy that can cope with both economic growth and climate policy. that, gentlemen, is a challenge!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am pleased, as is the commission, that there have been more jobs and more productivity. however, as many have pointed out, the coin has a reverse. many of the new jobs are precarious and unviable. the opportunities for education are extremely unequally distributed. some regions are not keeping pace. this is why we need a social europe that provides secure jobs with decent wages, that provides equal educational opportunities for all and that also ensures that development in all regions is good and equitable. we've had a debate for a long time about flexicurity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is challenged by saying that freedom of movement is superior to the right to strike. it is also challenged by saying that the principle of equal pay for equal work should not apply. it opens up social dumping, but not only that, it also means that companies that pay decent wages under contract have a hard time competing. this could lead to protectionism. i share the commission's view that we do not need protectionism. it is therefore important that the commission clarifies that equal pay for equal work should apply and that we should have good social conditions throughout europe, so that the currents of protectionism do not spread across the eu.
mr president, is it not a little odd that when we are discussing how to make europe more competitive in order to get more jobs that the discussion is leaning more towards the belief that jobs can be created through new regulations? that is not the case. i should like to disclose a secret to our socialist friends here today: in order for there to be employees, there needs to be employers – there are no employees without employers. their main problem is that, they are so eager to believe that jobs can be created through regulations, they forget that the preconditions and opportunities for new enterprises and new jobs need to be created, because there is no bigger social failure than unemployment and there is no bigger social success than every new job we can achieve in europe and in our member states. i would like to underline what the president said about achieving results through the lisbon agenda. let us not forget that the world is moving faster and we need to be more competitive; we need to be more entrepreneurial. there are three things i would like him to consider at the european council and later on. firstly, concerning red tape and better regulation: i would like him to report annually on the achievements of reducing red tape in order to show that he will reach the goal by 2012 of 25% less red tape than exists today. i would like him to also ensure that the services directive is implemented fully in each member state as soon as possible. i would like him to ensure that we are facilitating new businesses through a more offensive and more active broadband policy. i think our success in making europe more competitive lies in making small and medium-sized enterprises able to act all over the internal market. that is a job we need to do and he should take the first steps, together with the slovenian presidency, at the end of this week.
in writing. − the collection of independent and accurate statistics helps consumers, traders and the public sector to make different types of decisions. i support the council regulation on energy statistics but i completely reject the justification provided by the committee on industry, research and energy. i do not think that the major advantage of collecting the necessary data is to help the eu institutions to draw up a coherent european energy policy, nor that the eu should speak with one voice in the international arena.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because i believe that an increase in the quota should have gone to producers who produce organic milk. the increase now proposed will mainly benefit large producers at the expense of small ones.
in writing. - the current cap health check has given the commission and the european parliament an opportunity to take an ambitious and forceful approach to the further development of the cap. it is crucial that the reform of the cap continues in a market-oriented direction, which means that consumer choice is at the heart of farmers' production decisions, while reducing the overall cost of the agricultural policy. with the current strong growth in global demand for agricultural products, there are very good conditions for accelerating the deregulation of agricultural policy. the moderate delegation regrets that neither the commission nor the european parliament took the opportunity to do so, and we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − in sweden, both the previous and the current government have positively described the upcoming 'health check' of the eu's long-term budget and the cap in the coming years and how it will lead to very big changes and reforms. the federalist majority in the european parliament now considers that the heads of state or government agreed in 2002 to maintain agricultural subsidies under the first pillar at the same level until 2013 and that this agreement should be accepted. how can the 2002 agreement be interpreted in such different ways? the christian-democratic/conservative and social democratic majorities in the european parliament believe that reforms should be implemented only after 2013. the social democrats and the swedish alliance of liberals and democrats have told swedish voters that reforms should be introduced on the basis of the 'health check' for 2008-2009 directly in the long-term budget. which side is right about the 2002 agreement? the junilista group is absolutely of the opinion that reforms of the cap and a reduction in its costs in the eu budget should take place immediately after the completion of the health check. all other solutions would be to deceive the voters of the six member states that in 2005 did not want to expand the eu's long-term budget.
in writing. - there are two things that an eu friend has to explain (if not defend) when he comes home to talk about his work in the eu. one is the parliament's travelling circus to strasbourg. the second is agricultural aid. in both cases, the present system is equally impossible to defend and to explain. there are no good reasons for us to go to strasbourg. nor is there any reason for the eu taxpayers to be fattening the british royal family, which is today one of the main beneficiaries of the system while african producers are being knocked out. the goepel report went in the wrong direction, and that is why i voted against it. i did so mainly because i believe that the direction of the will is wrong: more direct aid, less reform, less use of the market. the commission has made good progress in moving towards a more modern system of agricultural aid. it is sad that parliament seems to want to turn back the clock.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the conflict in chad cannot be seen in isolation from the conflict in darfur, sudan. it is quite obvious that the government of chad is supporting the rebels in darfur. the chadian opposition announces that darfur rebels are fighting alongside the chadian government army against chadian rebels. my country sweden is supporting the eufor force with a few hundred soldiers. the aim is to guarantee the safety of the civilian population, but unfortunately there is much to suggest that the force is being used as a pawn in the internal game in chad. in a statement, chad's president idriss deby called for the eufor force to be deployed to eastern chad as soon as possible. deby clearly wants to use eufor to protect the survival of his own regime. a question to the commission and the council: how can you ensure that eufor acts completely independently of such pressures? what do you think of the government of debbie's cooperation with the rebels in darfur? am i wrong? then prove it to me! as regards the prisoners of the civilian opposition in chad, it is good that some releases have been made, but much more needs to be done. what is the eu doing to ensure the immediate release of all political prisoners?
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the fact that taxation at eu level is a sensitive subject is shown by the work on this report. now, i thought that the broad understanding that we had to do something radical to meet the climate demands would make it easier to get the really sharp proposals heard. it didn't really happen. i can certainly understand mr rühle's criticism of the level of ambition, but at the same time the work of our parliament is about finding reasonable compromises, which the commissioner was also keen to see, which can be implemented throughout our union. i have had to give way to arguments both as regards the scope of tax increases and the time taken to implement them. excellent cooperation with colleagues becsey and rosati made me realise that if we were to get a report through at all, i would have to adjust the level without completely missing the purpose of my original proposals. the commission proposal was approved in its entirety. i didn't win everything, but i didn't lose everything, either. navigating between the shores of luxembourg and the greens has not been easy. emissions from transport are increasing significantly. we have to do something about that. the fact that eu member states are competing with different levels of diesel taxes is therefore neither reasonable nor right, as the commissioner very rightly points out. no one can think that it is good for the internal market for giant lorries to make long detours to fill up cheap diesel, in luxembourg for example. the so-called 'tank tourism' is bad for the environment and distorts competition. it also leads to a loss of tax revenue. moreover, there is no reason to have separate taxes on unleaded petrol and diesel. this is what happened to the compromise, which was almost unanimously supported by the committee. the minimum rates on diesel are being raised more slowly than the commission proposes, from the current €302 per 1 000 litres to the same level as the tax on unleaded petrol, €359 per 1 000 litres by 2015. the commission wanted to see an increase as early as 2012. latvia, lithuania, poland, bulgaria and romania shall have until 1 january 2016 to introduce the higher minimum tax. the commission wants to raise the minimum price to eur 380 per 1 000 litres by 2014. the committee also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of fossil fuels. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is of course a very sensitive issue, particularly in the context of subsidiarity. however, this is a possible way of achieving an increasing convergence of tax levels. at the same time, we know that the necessary environmental requirements will be weighed in future assessments of the use of economic instruments. to those who don't think i'm tough enough in my demands and that i've been playing around with the ambition level, i want to say: i agree with you on the merits. we should have been able to agree on higher levels and shorter implementation periods, which the commission and the commissioner were keen to do, but the eu today is not the same eu as it was just five years ago - fortunately, i would add. the economic conditions for tax harmonization are not the same as before. if we are to tackle transboundary emissions, we must find reasonable compromises that everyone can live with. we all have to realize that. i would also add that several of the old member states deserve criticism for not following up on previous decisions on tax increases. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of capital. oil prices are at record highs today. last i heard on the news, it was closer to $110 a barrel. there is now a broad consensus on gradual fiscal convergence, which i hope the commissioner will see - at least in the committee - and i hope for the support of my colleagues and the house tomorrow, a broad support, so that we have a report on which we can work further.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i want to thank you for your kind words. i also think that there is reason to thank the commission and our committee secretariat. i felt at first that the commissioner did not seem to accept the views of the committee. i can understand that on a formal basis. now, when i heard the commissioner again, i thought there was an understanding that politics is politics, politics is politics. i admit we could have been more ambitious. the commissioner is talking about less ambitious. yes, but listen to this debate from left to right and upside down. i think that all the opinions have been expressed, and astrid lulling is at the centre. commissioner, it is in the light of the political reality, which you are aware of, that we would draw up a report and a proposal which will be on your table. now, i hope that tomorrow there will be a report from the committee on economic and monetary affairs which does not go entirely in your direction and which you cannot accept in all its parts, but there will be a report. i would like to conclude by saying to the commissioner that i still think it is a step forward that if we now get a positive result tomorrow we can end the confrontation that has been on these issues between the committee, parliament and the commission and also the council. as you say, we need to tackle the internal market with tank tourism. that is absolutely right, but we also need to come up with strong, tough measures for the environment. however, there must be understanding for them throughout our union, and i think we have succeeded in achieving that balance.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's important that we be clear about what we want. for too long, a debate that should be about human rights has been poisoned by various political considerations. a woman has a natural right to her own body. that's why i'm ducking into the debate about genital mutilation if sharia law is not recognizing the equal value of human beings. no one would think of denying a man the ability to control his own reproduction or say that it was a matter of cultural values to deny a man the ability to earn his own money and his own independence. when the eu, the world's largest donor, acts in third world values, our values must therefore be clear. human rights - and i include gender equality not only in theory but also in practice - must be the starting point. we must be clear that the market economy is good for poor women and men, not bad. this is particularly evident in the successful micro-credit campaign that has created both wealth and empowerment for millions of disadvantaged women. of course, we in the rich world should not impose on other people a particular way of life, but we have, as i think it is important to point out, a responsibility to make choices possible, where there are no choices today. i am therefore, like many of my colleagues here, very sad to see some of the amendments to an otherwise good and important report. they are certainly going in the wrong direction. i would like to say to my colleague in the back that when i was a member of the swedish parliament, i was at home with my son for six months on what is known as paternity leave. i actually think i became a better parent than i was before. i read newspapers, but my main responsibility was to take care of my children, and i did so with my wife. all i can say is that it's good. i think more people should do that and see how important it is to keep a family together: man, woman, child. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. - we have chosen to support the report as a whole, as we believe that the eu must tackle unhealthy tax competition in the fuel sector, in particular in order to achieve its climate objectives. the proposal for tax harmonisation should also not prevent individual member states from raising their co2 taxes on petrol and diesel. this is another important reason why we support the report.
in writing. - some member states have strong self-interest in promoting increased arms exports. the creation of a common code of conduct for arms exports is therefore likely to force some member states with a more restrictive policy to compromise. we believe that the monitoring of arms exports should be carried out by the member states in accordance with their national legislation. sweden shall retain the right to restrict arms exports if it so wishes. cooperation is desirable to advance global disarmament efforts, but this is best done internationally, within the framework of the united nations, given the experience, expertise and global reach of the un.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in addition, a gender perspective must be integrated into the criminal justice system and prisons. we do, however, have some objections to some of the contents of the report. we do not want to see a harmonisation of prison conditions in europe and we strongly question the report's proposals on special criminal penalties or alternative punishments for women, pregnant women and women with small children. as regards the child's contact with the parents during the period of incarceration and the time thereafter, it must, with the best interests of the child in mind, concern both parents and not only the mother or one parent.
in writing. - we support the work being done in the member states to modernise and adapt prison policies to better meet the needs of prisoners, and as part of this take into account the specific needs of women. since prison services are not a european competence, we have voted against the report. measures relating to visiting rules, the operation of institutions, training for prison staff, leisure activities for prisoners or social support measures are and should remain the competence of the member states in order to adapt and develop them to national and local needs.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. of course, it is also vital that the child's needs be given the greatest possible consideration in these situations. however, we believe that it is up to the member states to decide how they will comply with this. we particularly emphasize the right of each member state to define its own criminal law and thus also to impose appropriate penalties. the european union will also not intervene in the detailed regulation of whether or not a prison has to have a gym, visiting rules or work during the period of imprisonment. this will be governed by the member states and their respective electors and will be based on public debate in society. we recall that all eu member states are democratic states which meet the copenhagen criteria.
in writing. - we support the work being done in the member states to modernise and adapt prison policies to better meet the needs of prisoners, and as part of this take into account the specific needs of women. since prison services are not a european competence, we have voted against the report. measures relating to visiting rules, the operation of institutions, the training of prison staff, the leisure activities of prisoners or social support measures are and should remain within the competence of the member states in order to be able to adapt and develop them to national and local needs.
in writing. - this is an area for which there is no competence at eu level. despite the positive proposals, the report is too detailed. that's why i'm putting my vote down.
in writing. − the own-initiative report aims to integrate the gender perspective into eu development cooperation. the junilist group is against eu-level assistance and therefore votes against the report. however, several of the amendments tabled by certain members are of a less sympathetic nature. women's right to sexual and reproductive health is an important component of creating development. in this case we have chosen to support the original proposals as a counter to the unpleasant currents in this parliament. however, work on these issues and development cooperation should in principle be done at the global level through the un, not the eu.
the proposer. - mr president! - what is it? first, i would like to make two brief remarks. firstly, we can never, never be silent when the death penalty is used, no matter where in the world it is used. secondly, it is extremely regrettable that every time we meet here in strasbourg we have a number of human rights violations on the table. sometimes it feels like it's never gonna end. with regard to this resolution, we can note that the afghan constitution, article 34, very clearly states the right to freedom of expression, stating that freedom of expression shall not be restricted and that every afghan shall have the right to express his thoughts by speech, writing, illustration and other means. despite this, 23-year-old journalist kambakhsh is sentenced to death in a sham trial, and his legal rights are denied. the trial will be closed to journalists and human rights organizations. the so-called crime was that he distributed an article about the situation of women in islam. so the background is well known. we now demand with great force the immediate release of perwez kambakhsh. he has not committed any crime, but he has acted in full accordance with the law and the constitution. now the eu and the world must unite around the demand: release perwez kambakhsh.
thank you, mr president. the report is basically good, it is well balanced and it presents developments in macedonia in an objective way, praising what has been achieved and calling for a little more time to be given to what remains to be done. but as so often before, the debate is reduced to our different views on the conflict over the country's name rather than how we should get macedonia into the eu as soon as possible. we all know what happened at the bucharest summit. i don't want to get into who was right or wrong and who had the greater national interests to defend, but i do want to say that foreign policy is not about who is right and who is wrong. foreign policy is about finding solutions that are best for the peace and security of one's own country, the region and, in our case, europe. this is achieved by a mixture of goodwill, compromise, good diplomacy and clear leadership. to stop a country in southern europe from joining nato when it had the chance, i personally think was not very wise, given the complexity of the situation in the balkans at the moment and all the challenges we face: the de facto independence of kosovo, the resignation and re-election of the government in serbia and an unfinished police reform in bosnia. but to stop the balkan country's membership of the eu or even to think of such a thought is not only unwise but downright dangerous! i was talking to a colleague here in the european parliament just three hours ago, and he said: if they don't do what we want, we can stop them, not just in nato but in the eu. the law gives us the right. my reaction is that we have to change the law! because it can't be that the laws are there to stop, destroy and blackmail each other, can it? they are supposed to facilitate, so that we can all live as well as possible in a peaceful and secure europe, right? i firmly believe that the sooner all the countries in the balkans join the eu, the sooner we will have a secure europe. there is absolutely no doubt that macedonia belongs to europe and that macedonia should become a member of the eu as soon as possible. i would like to call for support for the report!
thank you, madam president. croatia plays a key role in the democratic development of the western balkans and it is of the utmost importance that the process continues. we have seen that the process of elections in croatia and the appointment of a new government has naturally been a little slower, but i really hope that the process will now be speeded up. as previous speakers have pointed out, the timetable is extremely tight. i welcome the decision to temporarily lift the ecological zone in the adriatic sea. it is a positive signal for the relations between slovenia, italy and croatia, but environmental considerations still have to be given a very high priority when we are dealing with this unique sea area. croatia still has a long way to go in reforming its judiciary and the judicial system. there are still far too many people who have to wait far too long for their judgments. this must be given priority, as must the development and expansion of the country's administrative capacity. finally, i welcome the work of the european union committee in the croatian parliament, chaired by my good friend vesna pusić. we hope that the negotiations will be very good and that they can be concluded quickly.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu is constantly moving into new areas. the problem is that there is no principle for what the eu should do. however, the principle of subsidiarity, which is celebrated in the speeches but rejected in the decision-making process, is a suitable one. it opposes the centralisation of research and development, except for very large-scale projects such as galileo and fusion power. research and development bureaucratized in large organizations yields less for the money, not more. there is seldom any reason for member states to send money to brussels and then have their researchers claim it back. this conclusion is particularly true in the case of research and development for smes. the enthusiasm of scientists and companies is because they are fooled into thinking that there will be more resources in total. there is no indication that this is the case. thank you for speaking.
the cultural conditions have fundamentally changed with the breakthrough and spread of the internet. i would say that it has been almost exclusively positive. culture has been revitalized, democratized and disseminated to more people. despite this, much of the european debate is currently focused on problems allegedly created by the internet for cultural practitioners. it's unfortunate, you know. that is not to say that culture is not facing challenges. copyright infringement and illegal file sharing are examples of such challenges. much of this report also focuses on these problems. right now, there are several proposals circulating around europe on how to deal with them. unfortunately, our basic civil liberties and rights are often not respected. for example, perhaps the hottest proposal right now is to ban those who have committed copyright infringement from accessing the internet. i would like to take this opportunity to ask my colleagues to support the amendment i have tabled to this report. in short, my proposal emphasises the positive role that the internet has played for culture and democracy, but it also rejects the idea of banning individual citizens from accessing the internet. copyright infringement and file sharing must be fought with sanctions that are proportionate and respect our freedoms and rights. however, to prohibit individuals from accessing the internet is, in my view, a serious restriction on freedom of expression and information and anything but proportionate. the internet is more than just a copying machine or a channel for distributing illegal movies or music. it's an arena for free speech, for information and communication. to my little brother, the internet is as natural as television or a conversation in a schoolyard during a break. and should we apply similar restrictions to other copyright infringements? i was not long ago in university, and unfortunately there were many students who illegally copied their course material, but to punish them by forbidding them to read books or write articles would of course be unreasonable. a person who has stolen food from a store is not prohibited from selling milk, and a person who has stolen a bicycle is not prohibited from using the street. so let's not do something as crazy with other crimes just because they're committed on the internet. thank you, thank you!
first of all, i would like to thank the commission and commissioner stavros dimas for the green paper on adapting to climate change. it is a book that every decision-maker and business leader, indeed every european, should read to understand the challenges we face and what we need to do. it is, after all, just as many speakers have already stated: a very large number of people are affected by the climate change we see coming. we have so far spoken a lot in economic terms in the european debate, but climate change will change our entire environment. one subject that we have not yet discussed sufficiently is health. the world health organization has pointed out that 60,000 people died last year that could be linked to climate change. it requires a completely different kind of community planning, a different kind of technology and a very large investment. it may seem daunting to many people, but these are investments we must make to cope with climate change and technological progress and to compete with other parts of the world. as always in an engineering revolution, there will be winners and losers, but throughout the eu system we are working to ensure that european industry and european workers are the winners in this situation. however, to achieve this, large investments, forward-looking decision-making and cross-border cooperation are needed. we cannot decide on transport without tackling climate issues. you can't talk about public health or education without talking about climate change. one of the most important issues we have begun to tackle is, of course, water issues, in europe and globally. we have had a visit from representatives of the maldives to the committee. it's a country whose highest point is just over two meters above the current sea level, and the maldives will partly disappear if we don't solve the climate problem. it is the poorest countries that suffer the most, and i would therefore like to make a call to the commission: the solidarity fund must be strengthened with more funds and our eu assistance must also focus on climate issues. otherwise we cannot help the rest of the world and therefore we cannot get a good negotiating agreement in copenhagen in 2009. thank you, thank you!
in this report we call for action to make agriculture take its climate responsibility. agriculture includes the livestock industry, which accounts for 18 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions. eighteen percent of the time. this is stated by the fao in its 2006 report 'livestock's long shadow'. so what can we do to bring down that 18 percent of emissions? when the chairman of the ipcc, rajendra pachauri, spoke for us in the climate committee, he called for a reduction in meat consumption. he's absolutely right. we've never in the history of the world eaten as much meat as we do today. since the 1950's, world meat production has increased more than fivefold. it's not sustainable. i would like to ask commissioner stavros dimas: do you agree with rajenda pachauri that we should eat less meat? i call on the commission to draw up a plan for reducing meat consumption. finally, a few proposals: an information campaign for vegetarian diets, calling on member states to introduce meat taxes so that meat becomes more expensive and therefore cheaper, investing more in the green in our own eu institutions, for example a vegetarian week in the european parliament, the commission and the council would be a good, modern and green start for a more sustainable union.
in writing. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling on the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further worsened. we would like to stress, however, that this should take the form of discussions and exchanges of views within the committees or in specially arranged meetings. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european parliament.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a european space policy, which will be based on the principles of the lisbon strategy and the european union's strategy for the future. the question is of concern to many and it is important that the member states themselves decide whether to participate or boycott the olympic games in china. the fight for human rights is central and should be supported, but the work must be done through the un to achieve the necessary legitimacy. unfortunately, the european parliament is using the current situation in tibet to advance its foreign policy positions. the situation between china and tibet must be resolved without the involvement of the european parliament, which has no competence in this area.
in writing. - the junilists consider that enlargement of the eu is a fundamental part of the work for peace and stability in europe. we therefore support eu membership for croatia when it meets the copenhagen criteria. we have therefore voted in favour of the report. the european parliament is right, however, to stress that the media should take measures to maintain public support for the international criminal court. this kind of statement can even be interpreted as a challenge to the freedom of the press. we are also critical of the formulation by the european parliament of an invitation to croatia to carry out an information campaign to raise public awareness of the environment. this is an important issue, of course, but it is outside the competence of the european parliament.
- is eu action in the urgent fight against cancer more effective than equivalent action within existing international organisations with broad expertise, such as the who? do the eu institutions have a broader competence than the member states in how to fight cancer? the junilista answer to these questions is no. the resolution calls for the establishment of an interinstitutional cancer task force within the eu, the launch of eu-initiated information and education campaigns on cancer, the establishment by the commission of an advisory committee on cancer prevention, eu legislative action to promote and support initiatives on poor sun protection, the commission's action to create smoke-free environments, member states' guaranteeing the availability of multidisciplinary teams of oncologists throughout the country and the recognition of oncology as a medical specialty. the thinking behind these views and demands is certainly commendable. the fundamental question, however, is what is the added value of the eu regulating all this. where is the trust in the member states? what happened to the principle of subsidiarity? do eu regulations really benefit those who need quality legislation and thoughtful action, namely cancer patients? where is the recognition that cancer is a global problem, that it should be dealt with primarily on a global level? on the basis of the above considerations, the junilista has voted against the final vote on the report in question.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. however, we would point out that our support for the amendment is mainly related to the issue of file sharing for private use. however, in the case of certain types of crime, such as child pornography offences and systematic copyright infringements for commercial reasons, the closure of internet access should be a possible method, among others, to combat such crime.
in writing. - the junilist considers that cultural issues in general fall within the political responsibility of the member states. we have therefore voted against this report in its entirety. the report is outside the legislative procedure and is nothing more than a suggestion by the federalist majority of the european parliament that the eu should intervene even more in the cultural field. we have voted in favour of the amendment which aims to prevent citizens from accessing the internet, because we are opposed to the french proposal that filters throughout the eu should be able to be blocked from the internet. in principle, however, we believe that the issue of file sharing is a matter for the member states to legislate on.
in writing. −the report on the european cultural industry opens with a chilling passage in the spirit of european nationalism on the role of culture in promoting the european project. nevertheless, i am voting in favour of the report because parliament states in the main points that non-commercial file sharing must not be criminalised and, if amendments nos 1 or 2 are adopted, that measures such as the closure of internet access must be avoided because they are contrary to civil liberties and human rights and the principles of proportionality, efficiency and deterrence.
in writing. - in the european parliament there is a term for reports containing endless political wish lists, whether we have competence in the field or not - they are called christmas trees. the report by mr bono is one of them. however, an important light was shed by the excellent amendment by christofer fjellner 1, which clearly took a political stance to signal that attempts to shut down the internet for pirates should not be recommended. since information has been leaked that president nicolas sarkozy wanted to transfer the french experiment to the eu level, there is every reason to support the expression that this would not be appreciated, to put it mildly. when the amendment was adopted, i therefore voted in favour of a report which i would otherwise have tried to vote against.
in writing. - the cultural reports drawn up by parliament are often difficult to deal with. the intention is of course good and, as the report states, there is every reason to use the pan-european level to support artists in their professional activities, where this is justified. this is not to say that everything has to be done at eu level. on the contrary, the principle of subsidiarity must be strictly observed in this respect, so that the member states do not lose the opportunity to develop their own cultural policies. it was therefore partly a matter of principle that decided to vote against the report. however, in this particular case, the wording of large parts of the report is even more serious. reason has a tone that's frightening. the same insinuation sneaks into several other parts of the text. you have to be careful and nuanced if you're going to discuss concepts like cultural heritage. you didn't have that here.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as jutta haug said, this is the last budget under the old model, at least if the new treaty is implemented, but it is also a budget that is a prelude to a more long-term budgetary reform. we are also entering what is known as the midterm review. it is therefore natural for us to take a more long-term view of budgetary matters. we believe, and this is important in the resolution, that important new political priorities must also be able to find their way into the budget. for example, we have today a clear lack of funds both in category 1 for growth issues and so on and in category 4. we therefore expect the commission to make a bold proposal for the mid-term review, but we must also start with next year's budget. we have a few points of particular importance. i am thinking first of all of climate and energy policy. i am the rapporteur on the budget for the committee on industry, and we have, for example, the major energy technology plan, the set plan, we have the energy efficiency measures and so on, all of which lack adequate budgetary resources. the second point i am thinking of is category 4 and not least all that is happening in the balkans. last year we had a big debate about the kosovo operation. they have to go on and they have to be long-term. moreover, they must be done at the same time as we have to get additional support for serbia and bosnia's accession to the eu. the third thing we want to focus on is quality in the budget. we have had a little too much at times, for example, in pilot projects and preparatory measures. now we should focus more on making sure that the implementation of these kinds of measures is really good. i am thinking, among other things, of what i myself have proposed on the preservation of the cultural heritage of the conflict-torn balkans. now we have to make sure it really becomes a permanent operation. the fourth area i am thinking about is the food crisis. we are now in a situation where the evolution of food prices may indeed have to affect the eu budget. we must not be outsiders to this. my conclusion is that as society changes, we must also be prepared to change the eu budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the question of organ donation is an ethically sensitive issue and must be governed by national values. cooperation across national borders may be done to achieve quality and safety requirements, but the choice to donate or receive organs is the choice of the individual or the loved ones. a choice that is often rooted in a cultural context. the proposed european donation card is inappropriate because the rules on consent, distribution and organisational structure differ from one member state to another. health care is and will remain a national issue. however, the swedish junilista is in favour of a voluntary exchange of bodies and knowledge within the existing organisations of the member states. the measures proposed by parliament to bring the debate on organ donation, national telephone lines, positive media coverage of organ donation and the training of sports stars may be justified, but these efforts will be decided by the member states themselves, based on the social climate prevailing in each country.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i have therefore been rapporteur for these so-called other institutions, seven of them, which include the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the data protection supervisor and the ombudsman. i have not had any serious objections to anything i have watched. there have been normal remarks about what can and should be improved. there have been no disclosures which could in any way call into question the granting of a discharge to any of these seven institutions. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the granting of a discharge, the demanding of responsibility, is the foundation of democracy. i have no confidence in the way this house is handling this task because i had the exact same task of looking at these seven institutions two years ago and then, ladies and gentlemen, found the most appalling interiors in the committee of the regions. i found that fraud of the worst kind had been committed there. i've been able to extract material for you all to read in the secret reading room. there were three separate investigations into this: one in olaf, our anti-fraud agency, and one in the court of auditors, and the committee of the regions itself had an internal investigation under way. they had fired their internal auditors. the list of objections was endless. i therefore naturally suggested that we should not grant discharge in that situation. i told the committee. the committee voted to discharge him anyway. i said the same thing in this house two years ago and you voted overwhelmingly for discharge. this shows that when you do this today on my recommendation, you do it not because i say so, but out of old habit. this congregation is not taking responsibility. it is more concerned with the eu's reputation. you're more concerned with deceiving the citizens, the voters. i don't want them to know what's going on. it is therefore with considerable sadness that i say 'yes, this time these other institutions can be granted a discharge'. i can do this with a clear conscience. most of you can't.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i should like to begin by talking about the discharge for the european development fund. many in this chamber would have expected another young nordic to do this job, namely our colleague alexander stubb, but as many of you know, alexander is unable to be here today because he has been appointed as the new foreign minister of finland. he therefore asked me to take over and present his work and his report here today. i think i speak for most of you here when i say that we are sad that alexander is leaving us, but that it is fun for alexander and that it is fun for finland, not least. i would like to begin by congratulating him on the work he has done here with the european development fund. the committee has done very well and it is a unanimous committee that is discussing the discharge for the development funds today. the european development funds are one of the means of promoting democracy and economic development in the acp countries. that is why i am pleased to see that the money is being used in a proper and responsible way. in 2006, they had a significant amount of money, eur 3 000 million, in commitments and managed to pay out just under 90 per cent of it. but the fact that we are happy here today to grant, and propose granting, a discharge to the commission which has managed these development funds - because we are really happy about that - does not mean that there are no challenges or that there are no further areas where we have to work. i would just like to mention a few of them. for example, unlike last year, we can note that the court did not present a completely clean audit report, but pointed out a number of problems, for example with regard to the documentation of transactions that could be better documented and with payments from different delegations. however, i would like to give the commission a clear acknowledgement of the seriousness with which it has taken these problems and presented concrete, real and important solutions to these challenges. we also highlight in our report the problems of the delay in the implementation of the modern it system. this is something we are taking seriously and hope the commission will continue to work on. i have already said enough about the more administrative and economic aspects, because there are also a number of important political points which i would like to raise. firstly, the work of the european development fund could be considerably facilitated if it were incorporated into the regular budget. we also believe that a financial regulation governing all current and future development funds would also make things easier. enough about the european development fund. i should like to take this opportunity to say something briefly about the discharge of the independent authorities. i do so partly because i was responsible for that work in the epp group, but perhaps above all because the rapporteur, as we heard just now, has had a different attitude, to say the least, and has not quite followed the line which the committee has chosen to follow. i think it is very strange that mr hans peter martin has not chosen to remove his name from all these reports, given that it is not his opinion that we are voting on in this house today. if i were to say something about the work itself, about any of the important points which we have in these reports after all - and which we have obtained thanks to close and good cooperation between the socialist group, our group, the liberal group and the green group - i would just like to emphasize that we grant discharge because we think that there is a basis in the court of auditors' declaration for approving the management of the economy by these independent authorities. but there are also problems there which we hope will be worked on. this is particularly important if all the institutions - the council, the commission and the european parliament - are to improve their ability to scrutinise the requests of public authorities. i hope everyone takes responsibility for that. i will come back next year as rapporteur on this matter and hope to discuss it more in depth with the commission.
the rapporteur. - i would like to take this opportunity to make some constructive criticism of the commission and the decentralised authorities, as i still believe that the rapporteur, mr hans-peter martin, has not succeeded in doing so. as rapporteur for the next year's report, i would like to focus on three questions in particular. they are also mentioned in the reports. the first is to evaluate the possibilities of merging the administrations of several of the smaller authorities and thus freeing up resources and expertise to comply with the complex regulatory bodies surrounding the authorities. many of these decentralised authorities have problems with compliance with, for example, the general budgetary principles or the financial regulation, procurement laws, etc. that is the point of view which is being repeated here and which i hope the commission will work on. we also propose that the independent authorities, like the other institutions, should have their staff allocations reduced by a percentage which it is not thought that they will be able to fill. i believe that too can free up considerable resources. last but not least, we propose that the earmarked revenue paid by the authorities to the commission each year and recovered should be set off against the draft budget adopted by the european parliament. there are three things on which i would like to have continued dialogue with the commission and the decentralised authorities during this period until i intend to take over the discharge procedure. last but not least, i would also like to say something about the court of auditors' special report on the european fisheries policy. it is also part of the package of discharge for the commission which we are adopting today, and the court of auditors is delivering a devastating criticism which must lead to far-reaching reforms of the common fisheries policy. three conclusions i have drawn, which are also in the report we are voting on, are firstly that it is unacceptable for member states to set fishing quotas year after year which are much higher than what science says is sustainable, (2) that the commission and the member states must be tougher in fighting crime and fraud with quotas and (3) that we must develop a new fisheries policy which strengthens the incentives and reasons for professional fishermen to care for the stocks. there are three points i would like you to take seriously in the report we are voting on today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. under paragraph 65 we did not have a vote on the fifth indent. we voted specifically on four but not on five.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and crossborder crime. the report by parliament improves the text on citizens' rights in terms of a high level of data protection compared to the german initiative. it's good, it's good. but unfortunately the report contains some writings on the treatment of specific data relating to race, ethnic origin, etc. and on the power of foreign officials to arrest and interrogate in joint operations. we have worked actively in the committee to remove this from the report, but unfortunately we have not succeeded.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we support the content of the report in general. however, we cannot support the rapporteur's amendment no 3. the reason is that we strongly oppose any form of recording and processing of data on racial and ethnic origin. even if the purpose of the article is to restrict the use of the data in question, we cannot support the text, since it does allow for some recording and processing of the data in question.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the junilists are in favour of increased cooperation between member states to combat terrorism and other serious crossborder crime. the european parliament and any other supranational body shall not therefore take decisions in this area. minimum provisions on access to legal aid for individuals and data protection are regulated in each member state. in addition, there is already a basic and comprehensive protection in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which has been signed by all the member states. a functioning dna exchange already exists with interpol. it is also important to highlight the privacy aspect required by the use of dna. we therefore agree with the report on the request for dna for persons who have been acquitted or whose charges have been dropped. however, the report goes too far in many respects, as it talks about the introduction of framework legislation in several areas, such as the guarantee of justice and the adoption of a general legal act covering all police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it also talks about the establishment of joint rapid reaction forces. a country's military resources are strictly a national matter and should not be regulated at eu level. the junilista has therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i am absolutely convinced that the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime is one of the areas where the eu should cooperate. but i think that the report contains too many texts for me to support, so i voted against.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national centres for the collection and treatment of human remains. we want to promote the added value that can be created by further coordination, but we do not support harmonisation. we therefore do not believe that the report should be accepted in order to set up a specific eu coordination body, but we want to highlight the forms of cooperation that already exist today and that are mentioned in the report. we also do not support the proposal for a european donation card. decisions on the rules on consent applicable to donation and transplantation should be left to the member states, as these are largely based on moral values, which are often locally and/or culturally determined.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the food crisis we are witnessing today risks taking humanity back a decade in the fight against poverty and creating instability and human misery in large parts of the world. i think it is important to state this and also to note that we have not seen the same rapid development in agriculture as in the parts of the world economy which have been globalised. what we see is a failure of regulated agricultural markets, a lack of open trade and regulations that prevent farmers from using our land. of course, if we wanted to, we too could decide to remedy many of the difficult problems we face today. greater use of the available land is good for the fight for a better climate. more crops contribute to both biofuels and food. but it is also an opportunity to open up economic development in the third world. at the same time, it gives us in europe the opportunity to open up to a more dynamic and open agricultural sector. but the solution to these problems is not more regulation and more subsidies. instead, it is in greater openness for european farmers and farmers worldwide to produce the food and biofuels the world needs. it is a freer agriculture, freer farmers and a free trade. if we can achieve this, we can also give a boost to the international doha negotiations, the free trade negotiations, and at the same time make a contribution to a better climate and a better world.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, in its communication of june 2007 'sending workers to work in the framework of the provision of services - making the most of the benefits and opportunities while ensuring the protection of workers', identified some shortcomings in the implementation and cross-border enforcement of the posting of workers directive. we concluded at the time that these problems could only be solved if member states improved their cooperation with each other and, in particular, fulfilled their obligations regarding administrative cooperation and access to information laid down in the directive. correct and effective implementation and enforcement are key elements in protecting the rights of posted workers, while lack of enforcement undermines the effectiveness of the community rules in this field. the commission therefore adopted a recommendation on enhanced cooperation on 3 april this year to address shortcomings in the implementation, application and enforcement of existing legislation. in particular, the recommendation calls for more effective exchange of information, better access to information and the exchange of best practices. such enhanced administrative cooperation should improve the protection of working conditions in practice, reduce the administrative burden on undertakings, make it more effective to monitor the fulfilment of existing obligations relating to compliance with working conditions and ensure effective control. the recommendation also proposes the creation of a high-level committee, with the direct involvement of the social partners directly confronted with problems in practice, which would lay the foundation for closer cooperation between labour inspectorates. this committee could be a suitable forum for discussion on a number of issues arising from the implementation of the posting of workers directive. the commission believes that this recommendation provides a basis for intensifying the fight against labour rights abuses and parttime work and that it improves the working conditions of migrant workers throughout the european union. it is now up to the member states to take the necessary steps to improve the implementation of the posting of workers directive. the council is expected to adopt the recommendation at the next employment and social affairs council on 9 june. the commission itself intends to evaluate the implementation of the directive in the light of the latest judgments of the european court of justice, and will work closely with the european parliament in preparing its own-initiative report. the commission is fully committed to the effective protection of workers' rights and will continue its fight against any form of social dumping or failure to respect workers' rights. it should be stressed that there is no contradiction between vigorously promoting workers' rights and promoting a competitive internal market, which provides us with the means to preserve european social welfare. social aspects and competitiveness must be given equal importance if our society and economy are to continue to flourish.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to thank the commissioner for his presentation and i welcome his emphasis on the importance of increased cooperation between member states and the responsibility of the member states to implement the posting of workers directive correctly. i think that there is a point to be made in this debate, and that is that since 2004 we have seen a rapid change in the european labour market. we've got increased mobility. it is important to say that the various fear scenarios that were then circulated regarding the consequences of increased mobility have been shown to be wrong. we talked about social tourism and a host of other problems. the fact is that today there are 1 million europeans stationed in different countries. and in the member states where we have had the greatest openness, we have also had the best developments in the labour market and in wage formation. the posting of workers directive has contributed to better opportunities for individuals but also to the european economy and to the european labour market. a million people! we'll keep that in mind as we discuss three different court cases. because once the court has ruled there, we also see that there are different situations in different cases. but what is also important is that there is nothing in this to say that there is no obstacle to different combat actions in the different member states. is there nothing in the judgments to suggest that they conflict with different types of collective agreements or other forms of pay formation? however, it requires that the member state has legislation and that societies operate in a way that encourages and allows mobility. it is in this context that i also think it is important that we now develop better cooperation and that the various member states make sure that this is implemented and evaluated, so that we combine mobility with social security and safety for everyone in europe. we should not blame the eu for the problems that exist, but we should take responsibility in the different member states and we should welcome the increased mobility and welfare that we can see as an opportunity of the posting of workers directive.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i welcome the recommendation and i welcome even more the commissioner's desire to work against social dumping and the fact that mr barroso and mr špidla said that the right to strike is not subordinate to freedom of movement. but the proposal you're making is not enough. it is not enough to prevent social dumping. first, let us look at the court's decision in the rüffert and laval case. it has been said that minimum wages are in force, that is to say that a polish worker must work in the same workplace as a german for 46 per cent of what the german works for. if you had said that women should work for 46 percent of what men earn, we would have said that it is discrimination. in this case, it is discrimination against polish workers who are not paid the same as german workers. this is unacceptable. secondly, we do not judge different social models in the same way. in the rüffert case, it is pointed out that it is collective agreements and not the model chosen in lower saxony that are universally valid. the same goes for the laval case. this means that certain labour market models are singled out above others. that is also unacceptable. thirdly, the right to strike is said to be fundamental, but when we weigh it against freedom of movement, it is not very important, not very important at all, but freedom of movement is above it. some speakers have been in favour of 'yes, but we shall have free movement'. of course we should have it, but how do we reward free movement if you dump the conditions in countries? do you think the people in these countries will say, "we welcome people"? no, they're gonna demand that you keep the borders closed. i am in favour of open borders between the new and old member states, but i am also in favour of equal conditions for equal work and that must also be the basis. the commission must therefore act more strongly on changes to the posting of workers directive.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the court of justice is the court of law under the treaties. the treaties must therefore be amended to protect the interests of workers. the court of justice's ruling in laval, viking line and rüffert concludes that the lisbon treaty cannot be accepted by europe's workers without inserting in the treaty a clause on workers' rights - the right to defend collective agreements, the right to take military action to improve wages and conditions of employment. the court ruled that the requirement to pay wages above the minimum wage is now a barrier to trade and that the unions will not be able to prevent wage dumping. commissioner mccreevy replied to me in writing on 17 april this year to a question on trade union rights as follows: trade unions may continue to take action provided that it is justified by legitimate objectives compatible with community law. i can't be more clear. the ecj must therefore be changed. free movement, yes, but without discriminating against employees from other countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the court of justice has repeatedly made it clear to the member states that they cannot consider themselves independent in such fundamental policy areas as health policy, gambling policy, alcohol advertising and, most recently, labour market policy. this is what is known as legal activism and must be seen as a direct threat to democracy and the principle of subsidiarity. in its arrogant attitude towards the elected governments of the member states, the court of justice is in effect a self-appointed authority in europe. as regards the laval judgment, it means that swedish and foreign companies will operate under completely different conditions on swedish territory. this is completely unacceptable. i would urge members to think carefully about this the next time they decide to transfer more power to the unelected institutions of the eu. because today it seems the sinner has awoken late.
in writing. - we have accepted the proposal for the egnos and galileo satellite navigation programmes, which is still being negotiated between the council and parliament, and on which parliament has already decided on the budgetary question, contrary to our view. we stress that we have been opposed to the use of funds from the research budget for these projects. we have also asked the commission to explain how it intends to create commercial financing for the projects. we welcome, however, the fact that the european parliament, through the negotiated proposal, has the opportunity to evaluate and influence the projects.
in writing. - galileo is an example of a large-scale technological project that no member state can manage on its own. i have been in favour of the project being financed from the eu budget from the outset. unfortunately, it has been found that the eu has not been able to cope satisfactorily with this enormous task. the rapporteur refers, among other things, to 'internal problems' as the cause. i think this is deeply regrettable and i can understand why the council has not been able to accept the enormous increase in the budget. it is up to the commission to present a more satisfactory financing of this urgent project.
in writing. − the report contains many proposals on the integration of persons granted international protection. we would have supported these proposals if the vote had taken place in the swedish parliament. in this context, however, the proposals are part of the creation of a common european asylum system. this report is very generous in its approach to refugee policy. at the same time, it is part of building a 'fortress europe'. the protection afforded by the refugee convention is being undermined by the eu taking on the interpretative responsibility of who should be granted protection and what that should look like. we see no alternative but to say no to any form of common refugee policy at eu level, because otherwise the member states will lose control over the direction of the policy. un conventions should remain the guiding instruments for guaranteeing the rights of asylum seekers in the international community.
in writing. − we abstained from voting on the roure report today, though we basically support the idea behind the report: to make sure that refugees and persons authorised to reside in a country on the basis of a temporary or subsidiary form of protection enjoy the same rights as long-term residents of that country within the scope of directive 2003/109/ec. however, we believe it is for the member states themselves to decide on this matter, not the eu.
in writing. the rapporteur calls for an organisation of civil society actors at european level to have a clear added value in relation to national, regional and local civil society organisations. this is, in our view, totally unacceptable, since drug policy is directly linked to the criminal law of nations and their views on crime and punishment. in addition, drug policy must be tailored to the cultural and social aspects of each country in order to effectively help marginalised people who need the help of society to return to a functioning life. we therefore vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. − no one questions the importance of the enormous, often successful work carried out by civil society organisations to help people caught up in drug addiction. all good forces need to come together to fight harmful, addictive substances. it was therefore very pleasing to see a report which pays attention to the efforts being made in europe. the reason why i abstained today has nothing to do with the main subject of the report. the reason is instead given under the heading 'civil society' and 'the external dimension'. i voted a while ago, in pain, i must admit, for a report which gave its support to facilitate a conversion to legal ballot papers in afghanistan, where production is to go to painkillers. one reason for this was the number of reports on the negative consequences of aerial spraying of existing crops and the desperate situation of the afghan people. the report calls for both special crops and spraying, which is inconsistent. the report also provides support to organisations in europe that produce substances from cocaine leaves, for example, for 'therapeutic' or 'other legal uses'. i strongly object to this. the main purpose of the report is good, so i decided to abstain.
in writing. the european union, the world's largest donor, must be clear about its values when it acts in the third world. human rights, not only in theory but also in practice, must be a keyword. therefore, to say that the eu should not use the european development fund to promote democracy and human rights by being able to demand development in this area is contrary to our desire to achieve real results. aid is only useful if it benefits the citizens, and then we as donors must be able to make demands to justify the development of democracy, human rights and a functioning civil society. in order to create development, direct aid through peacekeeping operations is sometimes also needed. these should also be covered by the european investment fund, as such actions reduce human suffering and prevent disasters in a very concrete way. of course, in the rich world, we should not impose a particular way of life on others. but we have a responsibility to make choices possible where there are no choices today. i was therefore saddened that the report, in an otherwise good and important report, called into question this principle, which i regard as fundamental, of reciprocity in respect of freedom and human rights and the possibility of peacekeeping operations within the european investment fund.
in writing. − the report by ana maria gomes covers many important aspects, not least the fact that the involvement of the eu and china should be in the interest of the african countries and people, and that external investors operating in africa should respect social and environmental rules. this is why we chose to support the report. however, we do not support the phrasing in the first paragraph highlighting the importance of the treaty of lisbon in enhancing effectiveness and coherence in the eu's external relations.
in writing. - africa is a continent in need of assistance, stronger trade links and greater participation in globalisation that creates more prosperity for all. china has quickly become an important partner on the african continent, with a great appetite for raw materials, not least the oil that several african countries have. the fact that more countries are interested in africa is conducive to its development. however, we must note that china's uncritical approach to access to these raw materials, with little or no regard for human rights, corruption and undemocratic regimes, is a challenge to the eu, which has long advocated combining trade and aid with demands for democratic development with respect for freedom and human rights. the european parliament's clear call for china to take account of human rights and development for the people of africa is an important signal. development is a broader concept than just economic progress and i therefore wholeheartedly support the view that human rights and democracy must be an important part of the relationship in intergovernmental relations, including china's relationship with africa.
for the gue/ngl group. it is estimated that there are some 14 million different species of animals and plants on earth. it says something about what a wonderful planet we have, what a responsibility we have to manage. but biodiversity is under threat. today, more than 30,000 species are threatened with extinction. the main threat is us humans and the economic system we have built, which is based on constant growth and consumption. this is something that you think you can achieve through competition instead of planning, transportation instead of local production. no wonder we are facing a climate catastrophe and a biological depletion. we could reverse this trend. the fact that the eu and its member states have signed the un convention on biological diversity is of course a good thing and can serve as an important tool. we are therefore committing ourselves, for example, to developing action plans to protect biodiversity and to establishing a global network of protected areas on land and at sea, just as an example. but most of this remains to be done at eu level. the very foundations must be attacked, otherwise we will never be able to solve the environmental problems. i want to highlight three areas. the transport madness the eu is built on the idea that no barriers should be erected between member states. a commodity should be produced where it is cheapest. thus, between 1993 and 2000 alone, long-distance rail transport increased by a whopping 30 percent. when the eu and the member states subsidize infrastructure, motorways always get far more than sustainable means of transport. in the former eastern europe, the new member states, the eu is pursuing a veritable asphalt policy with gigantic motorway subsidies. it's the railroad that needs to be stimulated, not the freeways. so to the commission: review the subsidy policy. speaking of subsidies, there is an incredible amount that can be done for agricultural subsidies, 55 billion euros every year. subsidies which are directly negative for the environment should not be paid and agricultural aid should be earmarked for environmental measures and organic farming. biodiversity and climate-smart solutions should be written as a main objective of agricultural policy, not maximum yield. a third fundamental problem that must be tackled is the internal market. i know this is like swearing in church, but the eu simply cannot continue to let the market take precedence over a progressive environmental policy. a few weeks ago, european commissioner günter verheugen replied to me that in the last five years the commission has brought individual countries before the court of justice 19 times in environmental or public health cases. the real scary thing is that in all these 19 cases the court has gone along with the commission, that is to say, the member states have not been allowed to take measures to protect the environment or public health. if we are serious about this, we need an environmental guarantee worthy of the name. we do not have that now and unfortunately we will not have it with the lisbon treaty. that is where market policy will be stuck. in conclusion, the commission has in our resolution we call for sustainability standards for biofuels. i would like to ask, perhaps especially the council: are you prepared to develop not only environmental requirements for biofuels, but also social standards for biofuels to guarantee, for example, sustainable wages, trade union rights, etc. for the biofuels we buy into the union?
mr president, i think that if there is one thing to do to try to halt the loss of biodiversity, it would be to halt the destruction of tropical forests. every year, 14 to 15 million hectares are gone. we have been discussing this issue for years and with no real progress. the real problem is that ecosystem services, whether we are talking about carbon sinks, biodiversity or regulation of the regional climate or hydrological system, have no real value on the market. it is a shortcoming of our economic model, and as long as we do not compensate forest owners for those values – so that it is not more profitable to log forests but keep them there – this rate of deforestation is going to continue. there is a solution: include forests in the emissions trading. the commission, however, is against this, and you have your reasons. the problem is that you provide no alternative, and we all know that there are very limited financial resources in the biodiversity convention – and there are not likely to be any in the future either. i know that the commission cares as much about deforestation in the tropics as the rest of us do, but the problem is: where is your alternative? we need a package. we need a comprehensive approach addressing climate change, carbon sinks, biodiversity and protection of livelihoods of the poor. it would require dg environment and dg development to work closely together. so far that has not happened. please give us an alternative so that we have something on the table and can discuss, otherwise i am afraid deforestation will continue and so will biodiversity loss.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for this additional question, mrs panayotopoulos. the presidency is aware that in some regions there is no longer an active population. but, again, it is up to the member states to propose appropriate measures to prevent this from happening. on the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that no one can be forced to live and work in a particular region. this is a serious problem. it's a problem that needs to be solved. but, again, cohesion policy measures offer solutions, and it is up to the member states to propose them and in what specific cases.
the chairman of the council. - i think it was 20 meters, not five meters, but that's not enough. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2010. but i repeat, cohesion policy, the european union's cohesion policy measures, enable the member states to deal with this problem, which mrs panayotopoulos has mentioned. how successful they are at this is another question, but it's possible. but you mentioned postal services, which is a very interesting aspect. however, i would point out that the postal services directive, which was adopted this year together with the european parliament, also addresses this issue appropriately and that an important element of this directive is to ensure the universality of postal services even after the liberalisation of this market. so that question is appropriately addressed in the directive.
the chairman of the council. −the question of ms goudin does not fall within the council's competence, since the council as such did not participate in the intergovernmental conference which drew up the draft treaty of lisbon, but the governments of the member states did. moreover, as is well known, the treaty of lisbon is not yet in force. when it comes into force, and we hope that it will come into force soon, within the prescribed time, the question of the interpretation of its provisions - i think that is the case with mrs goudin's question - the question of the interpretation of its provisions - will be a matter for the court.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think we should be able to ask questions about how to interpret the treaty which is now being presented under a different name but which is the same, and the council should be able to answer that question. my follow-up question now on question 3 is: does this wording mean that the eu should determine not only the objectives of global environmental policy but also the means, the means that the member states should use to achieve the objective?
it is a good wording that mr goudin uses and it is a great thing that people want to preserve and improve the environment, it is a good wording in the treaty of lisbon. the problem with the eu's environmental policy is that it is always the case that environmental measures are incompatible with the internal market. commissioner verheugen recently said that in the last five years the commission has taken member states to the ecj 19 times in cases where member states have legislated for the environment. in all 19 cases, the court has ruled for the internal market versus the environment. i wonder: does this mean that the environmental guarantee is strengthened in any way? can we say that the environment is superior to market requirements with a wording like this? can you comment on this, please?
the chairman of the council. - i cannot agree with you, mr. dillen, about the double standards. i do not think the european union has a double standard. if they did, the slovenian presidency would not have addressed the issue you raise in your question on behalf of the european union at the united nations human rights council in geneva on 25 march. the european union seeks to have the same human rights standards as all third countries. the question is what means to use. well, that depends on the case. and in order to assess what leverage, what measures to put in place, it is essential to consider what the likelihood is that they will have the desired effect.
the chairman of the council. − the council is closely monitoring the situation of civil rights and the rule of law in chad, especially since the chadian authorities declared a state of emergency. as you know, this state of emergency was lifted on march 16th. the council called on president deby to respect fundamental rights and freedoms, to exercise restraint and to release immediately the persons detained. there's only one other person missing at this stage. on 13 august last year, an agreement was reached with almost all the opposition political parties. the council continues to call on the signatories to the political agreement to continue the implementation of the agreement despite the interruption caused by the violent clashes with rebel groups. the continued implementation of the agreement reached also applies to the provisions on the promotion of democratic freedom and freedom of expression. the council joins international efforts to promote this process, in particular to regain the confidence of opposition political parties and civil society. pressure from the european union led to the establishment of a commission of inquiry, in which the european union and the organisation internationale de la francophonie participate as international observers. the commission's tasks will include investigating human rights violations during the conflict and identifying the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of some opposition leaders. the work of the commission was to be completed within three months.
the chairman of the council. - you are right, mr burke, the eu and the international francophone organisation are participating in the work of the commission of inquiry as international observers. i believe that this role will be sufficient for the evaluation of the report which we expect from the commission, as i said, in three months.
the chairman of the council. − following attacks by chadian rebels from sudan on the capital of n'djamena in late january, the operation commander, general nash, decided on 31 january to suspend the deployment of forces. this decision was taken for two reasons. first, to allow for an assessment of the new political and security situation, and second, to allow for the smooth evacuation of europeans and civilians from other countries. the notification was resumed after 12 days and this break, a 12-day break, did not affect the overall timing of the operation. initial operational capacity was reached on 15 march and full operational capacity is planned to be reached by the end of june. notwithstanding the suspension of the deployment for that short period, the council has made clear that it remains fully committed to the fulfilment of the mandate under the relevant un security council resolution, in particular the mandate on humanitarian aspects. the clashes in early february were envisaged as one of the likely scenarios and this was taken into account from the very beginning in the planning of the operation. unfortunately, this scenario has come to pass, which has further confirmed the importance of the deployment of eufor and the united nations mission in the republic of chad and the central african republic. the council considers that it is in the interest of the international community, and also of the european union, that stability and security in the region be improved. the presence of this multidimensional structure will contribute to stabilising the humanitarian and political situation and prevent the crisis from spreading to neighbouring countries and regions. regarding the incident on the border with sudan in which a soldier of the eufor mission was killed, the operation commander regretted the inadvertent crossing of the border and the fact that this accidental incident had resulted in a fatality. the commander reaffirmed that eufor would carry out its mandate in accordance with the un security council resolution, i.e. impartially and with full respect for the sudanese border. i should add that the investigation into the incident is ongoing. the force's being directed as planned. at the moment, 1,800 eufor personnel are deployed in chad and the central african republic. when fully operational, the mission will include 3,700 troops from 14 member states. negotiations are also under way with third countries on their possible contribution.
the chairman of the council. - the answer to the first part of mr aylward's supplementary question is certainly yes. on the other hand, yes, taking into account the mandate of the operation, which does not directly involve the darfur area.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is grateful to parliament for this insightful and timely report. making sure the wto can respond to the challenges of a rapidly changing global economy should be a major priority for the european union. in addition, in the light of the current economic difficulties that many wto members are facing, a strong multilateral institution is more essential than ever to counter the call for beggar-thy-neighbour protectionist policies. the report recognises the central importance of the doha development agenda (dda). the commission wishes to reiterate that any initiative in geneva with regard to the future of the wto will have to be calibrated and rooted in what we hope will be a successful outcome of the dda. today, during what could be the final phase in the dda negotiations, no wto members would have the political willingness and/or the administrative resources to engage in a meaningful reflection on the reform of the wto. we do expect and hope that this situation will evolve towards a final dda deal to be signed before the end of 2008. this will also open the gates to a debate on the future of the wto, a debate that will be highly dependent on whether the dda is concluded successfully or not. as to the ideas expressed in the report, the commission shares most of them in principle, even if it is clear that some proposals put forward in the motion for a resolution will face strong resistance from certain wto members. with regard to institutional matters, the commission remains supportive of enhancing the parliamentary dimension of the wto and of other ideas, like granting additional resources to the wto secretariat and expanding its tasks, as well as strengthening the wto active transparency mechanisms and to monitor and supervise effectively the application of the rules. we note the call for openness in the dispute settlement procedures and would like to underline that it was based on our initiative, that some hearings in wto cases involving the european union have been open to the public. as to the substantive proposals put forward in the report, the need to integrate non-trade concerns within the scope of wto rules will remain a guiding principle of european union policy within the multilateral framework, but also in the framework of its bilateral negotiations recently launched on the basis of the global europe communication, and unilateral initiatives in favour of developing countries. the new unilateral system of tariff concessions in favour of developing countries, the general system of preferences plus, is an example of that. the relation between trade policy and labour and environment will surely be an important area, and other trade subjects might appear on the agenda. the shaping of a new multilateral policy after the conclusion of the doha round will be one of the most stimulating and difficult challenges for european trade policy. parliament will take on an ever-growing role in designing and driving such policy, in particular once the lisbon treaty enters into force. the commission, and my colleague mr mandelson in particular, is looking forward to engaging with you in open and constructive dialogue in order to reach solid and realistic conclusions aimed at strengthening the wto and the whole multilateral trade system.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on international trade for this report. i think it is worthwhile, when we discuss the wto, also to underline the fact that globalisation and free trade have given millions and millions of people new opportunities. in the last two decades, we have seen more progress in the fight against poverty than the world has ever seen before. this underlines the need to safeguard a stable framework of fair and multilateral rules for free trade. this is the main task of the wto and it is also why it is important to have a strong and strengthened wto. we need to ensure that we can have more international trade and competition without distortions. this is why the committee on economic and monetary affairs has pointed to the need to reduce state aid, to remove non-tariff trade barriers and to help developing countries to be in a better position in the negotiations regarding the multilateral framework and the rules of free trade. this underlines once again why we need a strong wto and a strong secretariat – in order to take decisions and to uphold the rules, but also in order to develop the multilateral trade system. if we succeed in having a strong wto and a strong secretariat, we will do an important thing to safeguard the opportunities for global trade to develop in a framework of free and fair rules. that is our task – nothing more and nothing less. in that sense, it is also important to highlight some of the things that need to be done: we need to increase free trade in services; we need to increase openness in financial services; we need to ensure that we can have more free trade in agriculture. when we discuss increasing food prices, we can see the importance of opening up the markets. but we will never succeed in doing this without a strong wto and without the opportunity to uphold a strong framework that is good for the developing countries, that can give poor people new and better opportunities and that can also help us all benefit from the opportunities of free trade.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, this is, as already has been said, an important report and i want to congratulate ms ferreira. we know that our current economic model fails to integrate environmental costs into market prices. already at the stockholm conference in 1972 the ‘polluter pays’ principle was established and agreed upon. but, as we know, it has not been implemented in most countries. this report is very important. it responds to the many market failures we experience in several areas, where of course climate change is the most obvious problem today. the report suggests plenty of initiatives in many key areas. in general most of those proposals are well-drafted. however, i think more effort could have been made by us all to try to shorten the report and merge some of the individual paragraphs; very similar demands are now being put forward. i think the report would have benefited and become much clearer. on behalf of my group and as has already been said by mr purvis, i have to mention that we have difficulties with a few paragraphs. one is paragraph 26. you cannot favour an emissions trading system and at the same time ask for a general co2 tax at european level. it is inconsistent. secondly, we have some problems with paragraph 24. while we agree with most of the contents, it is, in our opinion, too general in its language and somehow gives the impression that auctioning revenues would be or should be part of the eu budget in the future. that is not something we can support. but, apart from that, we are in general in support and once again congratulations to ms ferreira.
for the gue/ngl group. we will shortly be taking decisions on the environment committee and anne ferreira's report on market-based environmental instruments. it is an excellent report and i fully support it. let me make a personal comment first. we're talking about market-based policy. personally, i am tired of all this talk about market control of environmental policy. we don't need more influence for the corporations or the market. we need more political guidance. we need more planning. for example, we need tougher emission standards, we need to be able to use public procurement for environmental purposes and environmental taxes and charges. this is where we really have the market-oriented instruments, because it is precisely about imposing taxes and levies on what aggravates environmental problems, simply internalizing environmental problems. these instruments are a good example of how we are taking political responsibility for environmental problems rather than putting them on the market. let me give you some concrete examples of the most important aspects of this report. a carbon tax, a carbon tax combined with a clear reduction requirement is likely to be the most effective way to bring down emissions. my own country was the first in the world to introduce a carbon tax. it was the early 1990s. without claiming that sweden is a pioneer in all climate areas, the co2 tax has actually been one of the main reasons why we have reduced our carbon dioxide emissions. it's time for more countries to join the fight. in paragraph 26 of this report we call for a carbon tax. overall, we call for increased support for member states to introduce environmentally sound taxes. i think today there is a very unique opportunity to push for a carbon tax and other environmental taxes. in just the last few years, there's been a tremendous increase in consciousness in the world. the report also states that the member states themselves decide on this matter. of course, that's exactly right. it is the competence of the member states. another issue is the emissions trading system. it is only to be admitted that the first trading period 2005-2007 has been nothing but a disaster. the system has failed to reduce emissions and many polluters have even been given generous allocations and made huge profits on this system. in this report we are calling for the auctioning of emission allowances, we are calling for an emission ceiling that is consistent with the 30% reduction target and for limits and strict requirements for the use of so-called flexible mechanisms. in doing so, the trading system will hopefully start to function. if this does not happen, consideration should be given to replacing the trading system entirely with something else, such as high taxes on emissions. in this context, it is important to remember that now that aviation is to be included in the emissions trading scheme, it is not possible to limit the measures against aviation to the trading scheme alone. parallel measures such as a tax on aviation fuel and taxes on nitrogen oxide, nox, are a must, and that is exactly what we are asking for in this report. i would like to ask the commission: you've said before that you're going to present measures against the nitrogen oxide emissions of aviation, against nox, and that it's going to come this year. can you tell me what's going on? do you have a date for when the measures will come? given that aviation has almost doubled its emissions in the last ten years, there are many of us in this room who want to see concrete action. we can't wait any longer! these instruments are therefore a good example of how we are taking political responsibility for climate change. with taxes and fees, we can speed up the necessary emissions reductions and hopefully solve the entire climate problem. let's do this it's our duty to our children and to all other living creatures on this beautiful planet.
mr president, i would like to thank you. environmental issues have rightly become one of the major political issues of our time and they have also rightly become one of the most important areas of eu cooperation. firstly, crossborder environmental pollution in europe cannot be dealt with at the level of the nation state, and this gives the eu an obvious role in such areas. secondly, the eu is the world's largest economy, with a huge production and foreign trade, and the member states agree to take responsibility for the environmental consequences of this fact. this combination of size and consensus on basic environmental objectives gives the eu the potential to exert a global influence of considerable significance. but the report does not inspire confidence. there is no distinction between the consumption of finite resources and the impact on the climate. the rapporteur is also shameless in using the climate issue as an argument for supranationality, bureaucracy and protectionism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is no recognition here that the countries in competition with each other must seek the solutions. and to top it off, the usual boastful claim that we must institute a new way of life in our western societies. that's pathetic. our job is to make sure that the environmental costs of consumption are reflected in the prices consumers pay. free citizens choose their own way of life.
i would like to express my dissatisfaction that we have not had the opportunity today to vote against the proposal for personal carbon dioxide cards, i.e. personal cards where we are expected to measure the contribution of individual individuals to the greenhouse effect. it's just wrong. it is against human activity and development and sends out very strange signals: do not breathe, do not exercise, above all do not flinch and, for god's sake, do not fart! what would be the penalties for those who consume too much carbon dioxide or contribute too much to the greenhouse effect? should we forbid them to breathe at all? no, this kind of idiotic ideas undermines our credibility and takes the focus away from the real, effective means, namely emissions trading, polluter pay principles and other methods that actually work. i am surprised that there are not more people who have protested against this proposal and that it seems to pass unnoticed. i am terribly sorry if in this speech i have contributed to the consumption of more carbon dioxide than i am actually entitled to. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. the resolution contains a number of vague points. we are in favour of the development of a single market. however, the european parliament's expression of regret at the lack of concrete harmonisation in this area can be interpreted in several directions. one of these is that more detailed regulations on total harmonization should be introduced, which we do not support. the proposal also rejects any attempt to renationalize cohesion policy and supports a common immigration policy and the development of a unified nato policy, so we have voted against the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. - we sympathize with much in this motion for a resolution, but parts of it are matters which are not of concern to this parliament but are matters for which the member states and, if necessary, the council of foreign ministers are responsible. as always, there are irrelevant amendments from different groups on various major issues of principle, such as the inclusion of the mrta in the eu list of terrorist organisations and the attempts at a peace process in colombia. these are important issues, but of such dignity that they should not be decided by the european parliament but by the competent decision-makers in the member states. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. − we regret that the text on reproductive health, which was part of the gue resolution, was deleted in the compromise proposal of all political groups. the deleted text read as follows:‘calls for public policies to promote infrastructure, equipment and public services ensuring general access for women to sex education and reproductive education, including control over their fertility, and to support motherhood and fatherhood, thus enabling women to plan their families and the other aspects of their lives and furthering all the conditions required for greater participation on a basis of equality’.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. nature offers riches that man has only begun to discover, and it is imperative that this treasure of future possibilities be preserved for future generations. that is why we are supporting the resolution today. however, it is important that the eu's work on biodiversity conservation allows for flexibility and the adaptation of eu directives and legislation to national differences. the environments of our member states are different and therefore require different types of protection.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats have voted in favour of this report. we believe that economic instruments must be developed at eu level to meet the many environmental and climate challenges. the report also stresses the principle of subsidiarity. however, we chose not to support a paper on targeted regulation for low-income households. there are simpler and better general measures to offset the social consequences of environmental policy instruments. we also voted against amendments nos 2 and 3. these cover important areas such as the efficiency of combustion engines and the use of pesticides. however, we believe that the best way forward is through parliament's ongoing work on reducing the climate impact of passenger cars and regulating the use of pesticides.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances should be approved by the council. we reject the idea of a 'carbon card' for individuals and small businesses, which would record their energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. on the one hand, we believe that the practical difficulties themselves are likely to be an obstacle. we also believe that the proposal is contrary to the right to privacy and freedom, not least because it does not explain why this data is to be collected or what it is to be used for. we also reject the proposal for carbon dioxide tariffs. free trade makes the most efficient use of the earth's resources. the focus should be on international environmental agreements.
in writing. - environmental issues are one of the most important areas of eu cooperation. cross-border environmental pollution in europe cannot be dealt with at the level of the national states. this gives the eu a clear role in such areas. however, it is very worrying that the report shamelessly uses climate issues as an argument to increase the political power of the eu and open it up to bureaucracy and protectionism. there are many examples, all of them wrong. this requires common taxation, a re-examination of the concept of free competition and the introduction of so-called frontier adjustments, i.e. customs duties. the way in which member states deal with environmental policy must be left to the member states themselves. it is in the competition between countries and companies to find effective solutions to environmental problems that creativity can flourish, not by bureaucratizing existence. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. - as a swedish liberal, i am fundamentally sceptical about common eu taxes. this is not the case with environmental taxes. at the same time, careful consideration must be given to the combination of control instruments that is particularly effective. i am a great believer in emissions trading and am not opposed in principle to a carbon tax. but the balance between them must be well thought out and as the proposals were pitted against each other i thought it appropriate to make a mark. the ferreira report was mixed. however, most of it was positive and i did not have to think long before i voted in favour. but i'll tell you what, it wasn't all good. point 66, which was not put to a separate vote, was for example on the introduction of a 'carbon card' for individuals and smes. politics is certainly something to be desired. but it's better to be feasible, too.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have no difficulty in joining the chorus of celebration of the euro and its first ten years. few, if any, could have imagined that the introduction of the euro would be as widely accepted as it has become. jens-peter bonde is a man of courage. he is a nice and capable colleague, but he has been wrong most of the time, and he is absolutely wrong about this. madam president, commissioner, the accident reports are wrong. the euro is a tremendous success. in the wake of the financial crisis, the ecb showed what it means to be able to act swiftly and with a single voice, even more promptly than the federal reserve in washington. it's still a very honorable thing to do. to my german colleague, who mentioned sweden, i can only say that i agree that it is not good. it is my hope that my own country, sweden, will be a full member of emu within a period of five years. i myself would like to see a new swedish referendum in the autumn of 2010 or the spring of 2011. i can promise the commissioner and the other members that i will do everything in my power to get sweden to adopt the euro. that would be good for sweden and for the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone seems to agree that this is an important directive. it is important, especially in times of increased restructuring, that information and consultation work. i also share the commission's analysis and that of commissioner špidla that the directive as it currently operates is not working well enough. it needs improvement. we know that major restructuring has taken place without any information or consultation. i also share the view that it was right to refer this matter to the social partners. however, as things stand, we must weigh the prospects of producing a directive at all during this term. if one party to a negotiation uses the negotiation only to drag out the process and then it does not result in an agreement after nine months, then we do not get a directive, and we do not get a change. the risk is obvious in this case. that's why one party has pulled out. the risk is obvious that there will be only a delay. that is the situation today. it is then up to the commission to act. we are in this situation because the negotiations have not succeeded. in that case, the commission must, on the basis of the starting points mentioned by mr špidla and the analysis he has carried out, make a proposal. we therefore promise in parliament, as we have already discussed at the coordinating meeting of the committee on employment, that we will do our best to produce a directive which can be completed during this term of office. that's the way it is at the moment. the commission must act.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is a union of values based on a common understanding of respect for human rights. when these are not respected within the union or in the eu's neighbourhood, the union should act. it is unfortunate, however, that this parliament is trying to use human rights to advance its own position in the field of foreign policy at the expense of the competence of the member states. we must not forget the fact that several of our own member states do not always respect human rights, for example when it comes to lgbt rights, when in our self-righteous zeal we beat ourselves up and criticize the policies of third countries.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. whenever we come to the eu's agricultural policy in this house, the sensible citizen is reminded of how unreasonable it still is, despite some improvements in recent years. we face constant demands from interest groups for continued protection against foreign competition. the regulatory systems have been in place for so long that they have even distorted the way people think and talk about these issues. that is why the rapporteur can say without a shudder: it is important that community cotton production remains profitable, with production levels high enough to keep the refining industry, which employs 3 200 people in greece and 920 in spain, profitable. if we reasoned like that in other areas, europe would be heading for its demise. the truth is that spain is a very prosperous industrial country with a workforce of some 20 million people. such a country can have no problem in transferring 920 people from cotton-purification to other more productive activities. the rapporteur also uses without hesitation expressions such as 'it is absolutely necessary to preserve cotton growing, which is a profitable part of community agriculture'. this is an extreme example of contradictio in adjecto. common sense says that if cotton farming is profitable, it needs no support. the bitter truth is that cotton production in the eu is unprofitable and should therefore be phased out. such adaptation may be difficult and require state aid, but the aid should then be used to change and not to protect production that is clearly best carried out in other non-eu countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe is one of the least developed regions in the world in terms of lobbying rules, as jens-peter bonde pointed out. however, we can do better today by supporting the amendments which call for a mandatory register of financial interests and for serious sanctions for those who break the rules. we also need to clarify what the externally paid people working in the commission actually do. as many have pointed out, lobbying is not inherently bad, but the problem is that when we centralize decisions, it becomes easy for large companies to convert economic power into political power. at least four-fifths of the lobbyists are paid by big corporations. that imbalance affects our legislation. so, publicity must mean that all changes to legislation submitted by lobbyists must be publicly recorded, so that we can see who is behind them. when the register of those who will be allowed to come here is drawn up, i would ask astrid lulling to ensure that one third of the seats are allocated to companies, one third to non-governmental organisations and one third to the others. then we can have balance.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the report's praise of sport is only something to be agreed with. sports mean a lot to society, and it creates a lot of important values that i can't do justice to in two minutes. it also helps to bring europe together. just because something is important does not mean it is political, and just because something helps to bring europe together does not make it a primary responsibility of the eu. this is something i think is lost in the debate, especially if it is stated that more sport-related action should be taken at eu level. i don't think it was. that is why i do not think we need a specific european gambling police. i don't think sports agents make too much money, and that would be an argument for us to create a special training for sports agents. nor should we equalise the income of successful and less successful clubs. attempts to limit what the report calls the overactive schedules of athletes will not make them resist doping. however, we must clarify a number of incorrect claims made about the gambling market in europe. there is no link between private players in the gambling market and match-fixing. on the contrary, some of the biggest scandals we have seen in europe have hit precisely those countries with monopolies. there is no connection between a gambling monopoly and a restrictive gambling policy. on the contrary, many of the state monopolies in many member states are some of the biggest buyers of advertising. it's not countries with competition that have an unregulated gambling market. on the contrary, it is found in many monopoly countries where gambling services are the least regulated and where monopolists are usually free to act as they wish. we must not try to keep the eu out of an area where the eu actually has an important role to play by using inaccurate facts. we have free movement of services in europe, which of course must also apply to gambling services. the member states' false talk about gambling addiction is usually concealed by pure protectionism and the protection of their own revenues from the gambling monopoly. all this hypocrisy about gambling policy reveals, perhaps, that it is the finance ministers of the member states who suffer from the worst kind of gambling addiction. that is why we moderates find it very difficult to support large parts of this report.
in writing. - we believe that the common agricultural policy should be abolished. at the same time, we believe that agreements should be respected. in today's vote we have therefore voted in favour of the commission's proposal to comply with the accession treaties with portugal, greece and spain, where the eu has unfortunately committed itself to guaranteeing support for cotton production, which will also include production aid. we therefore regret that the commission has not been able to present a proposal in this area which is in line with the policy for other agricultural sectors where aid has been decoupled from production. the european parliament's report (a6-0166/2008) proposed the possibility of even less decoupling of aid, and we therefore chose to vote against this report.
in writing. - the junilist supports the important work on human rights taking place worldwide, but considers this annual report to be another attempt by this parliament to promote the eu's competence in foreign policy areas. the situation in several countries is deeply worrying and the international community must of course react. however, this will be done through the un and its various bodies, which, unlike the eu, have legitimacy and broad support among the majority of states. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i chose to abstain on the matter, as the cappatos report contains elements in favour of eu decision-making (in particular, on the basis of paragraphs 15, 45 and 141). i believe that it is up to the member states to decide and take decisions on human rights issues.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the eu is a major player in the world economy. however, as an election observer, the eu has a role to play alongside these other international bodies. the experience and expertise that the eu has built up is of great importance and should continue to be used. we have therefore decided to support the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the political situation in burma and the release of political prisoners are very pressing issues, but they should not be made part of the eu's supranational trade policy. we see this as another attempt by the eu to expand its powers in foreign policy. on the other hand, junilista sees free trade agreements between the eu and other regions as a natural consequence of having a single market and a common trade policy. we have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - there should be a framework for the permanent access of lobbyists to the premises of the european parliament; we support the current code of conduct. we support greater transparency in political decision-making. we voted against the report because it leads to a bureaucracy which is counter to its own aims. the full regulation of contacts between politicians makes it difficult for citizens and elected representatives to have natural and open contacts. citizens should be able to contact their representatives without their conversations and views being publicly reported. it is not possible to give a detailed account of how perceptions and opinions are formed. the arguments and responsibility for decisions should be open, not the dialogue between individuals. it is important to protect the privacy of individual members and citizens. the transparency advocated in the report risks being illusory and misleading. transparency must be based on politicians taking responsibility for their positions and explaining their reasons for doing so. furthermore, a joint register of lobbyists between the european parliament and the commission would be to give up parliament's independence. in conclusion, political decision-making should be based on the integrity of the elected representatives and be presumed to be so.
in writing. - a member of parliament always needs to be given relevant information in order to make good decisions. it goes without saying that one person cannot be an expert on everything. in this sense, lobbying can be a valuable addition to information gathering by providing expertise and relevant impact assessments. however, citizens have the right to know which special interests are active. the influence of a lobby group does not necessarily depend on financial strength animal rights activists and other social movements can be at least as successful as industrial interests. of course, registering interests is not straightforward, not least in terms of defining who or which groups are engaged in lobbying. as a policy-maker, however, i think it is relevant to continuously identify those who are spending time and energy on influencing legislation. if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to worry about. in the sun, the trolls burst.
in writing. - i voted for the lobby report in its final form because it represents a microscopic advance compared to the present situation. the fact that it did not succeed in doing so is in itself a testament to the influence that lobbyists have on the eu system.
in writing. − sport is part of the lisbon treaty and will therefore, with the entry into force of the treaty, play a more prominent role in eu policy. we social democrats would like to stress that sport is already a transnational activity, but that this does not mean that european institutions such as the council, the commission and the parliament should be involved in the management of sport in detail, but that sport should be self-regulating as much as possible in order to maintain its independence and autonomy.
in the case of the commission, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. firstly, the report refers to the treaty of lisbon, which has not yet been ratified and will be the subject of a referendum in ireland in a month's time. the federalist majority in the european parliament is thus violating fundamental constitutional principles. the lisbon treaty is also 96% identical to the constitutional treaty already rejected in referendums in france and the netherlands. it is therefore completely unprincipled to refer to the treaty of lisbon in this report. secondly, this report means that the eu is entering another policy area which the junilists consider to be a matter for the member states to manage. we therefore vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i think it is too closely related to the lisbon treaty. i don't want to make sports supranational. i think it's good the way it is. i do think, however, that the amendments on women and sport were good.
in writing. - the report on sport contained a lot of interesting and sensible information. no one can reasonably object to the eu member states taking strong action against doping and xenophobia in sport. more controversially, but in my view more logically, it was to support the commission's idea of a common european police force to monitor sporting events. that is as far as i was prepared to go in supporting the report. unfortunately, the really big question - the question of the liberalisation of the gambling monopoly in europe - did not land quite right. i myself believe that liberalization, in controlled forms and with licensed gambling and lottery operators, could satisfy both the consumer's interest in a functioning gambling offer and the sports movement's need for funds. that's why i put my vote down.
in writing. − we recognise that sport has a special role in society as an instrument of social inclusion and integration, and as a promoter of local democracy. we acknowledge the considerable importance of sport in health terms as a preventive measure for obesity and chronic conditions. we fully support the notion of strengthening the role of women in sport; the importance of protecting athletes of all ages during and after their sports career; the promotion of sports in society, including physical activities in the school curriculum; the need for redistributive measures in sports financing; and the citizens right to information and wide access to broadcasts of sports events. however, we do not support the enhanced role of eu-level policy in sport. we therefore cannot support the steps taken to further increase eu policy in this area. specifically, we cannot support the idea of setting up a european police force for sport.
for the gue/ngl group. there is no doubt that those who break environmental laws should be punished. the penalties must be substantial and dissuasive so as to avoid environmental offences in the future. but should we harmonize the criminal law? should the eu decide on penalties prison sentences, fines and other things? no, that is for the member states to decide. the risk of harmonization legislation is always that progressive countries will have to lower the level of their legislation. this is not acceptable. if we leave the decisionmaking in this area to the eu, what is the next step? the eu is obviously committed to improving the way member states work on environmental legislation. good examples can and should be set and help and support can be given to those member states which are lagging behind for various reasons. the establishment of tables of concrete indicators for comparing member states is a good example. we will then be creating a system that has great legitimacy and is democratically anchored. it's also the best way to protect the environment.
the rapporteur. - my fellow members! first of all, a big thank you to all the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation. we have all seen the images of the recent famine. in a short time, agricultural prices, especially food prices, have skyrocketed. this is a blow to many developing countries that are heavily dependent on food imports and have previously lived on the margins. it is hoped that this report on international trade in raw materials will help to remedy some of these problems. the eradication of hunger and poverty are commitments we have made since the signing of the so-called millennium development goals. un secretary-general ban ki-moon recently warned that rising food prices are jeopardizing the most important millennium development goal - to halve world poverty. so it is high time for swift action. the recent food crisis, in particular, has shown that food is not just any commodity. if even the most basic demand for people to be fed cannot be met, the rhetoric of development is of little value. therefore, caution should be exercised in making food an international commodity like any other. yet, the developing countries of the world have been forced to deregulate their food policies and move from production for domestic needs to export production. this is the policy of the imf, the world bank, the united states and also the eu, which have pushed these demands. by eliminating protective tariffs and subsidies, many developing countries have become extremely vulnerable to sharp fluctuations in the price of food and raw materials. for example, haiti, which used to be self-sufficient in rice, was forced by the international monetary fund in 1995 to lower its rice tariffs. state-subsidized rice from the united states flooded in, and local production was destroyed. today, three quarters of all the rice consumed in haiti is imported from the united states. i hope that this report will give us the tools to face the problems and challenges posed by the uncertain trade in raw materials. some of the things we are focusing on in this report are helping developing countries to diversify their economies so that they move from a situation where they only export one or two commodities to allowing more advanced production with more refined products. the importance of policy space in developing countries is also discussed. this must mean that these countries actually have the possibility and the economic policy tools to support, for example, the development of domestic agriculture. we also call on the european commission to review the flex financing scheme which aims to stabilise commodity prices. we also raise the gender dimension in trade in raw materials, or rather the lack of it. it is extremely important that we always take the gender dimension into account when negotiating international trade agreements. this report also deals with fair trade. fair trade can be used as a tool precisely to support small-scale producers in developing countries and to increase pressure for higher social and environmental standards in these countries. we demand that all eu institutions apply the principle of fair trade in their public procurement and other purchasing. we also raise the problem of the growing consumption of animals, i.e. the increasing demand for meat and dairy products, which leads to an increased demand for cereals for animal husbandry instead of for human food. there are a lot of other things that we're also looking at. finally, i would like to say that this work has revealed the true face of the european union. while we have tried to speak of the needs and conditions of the developing countries, european industry, with the help of its representatives in the european parliament, has tried to focus on the short-term commercial interests of companies in having a stable supply of cheap raw materials. i would like to call on everyone to support the amendments tabled by the left group, the socialists and the greens. amendments nos 20 and 21 are particularly important. we can then balance this report so that we have a stronger development dimension.
the rapporteur. - commissioner janez potočnik, we look forward to the communication from the commission and the conference. it is good that you want to emphasize the food safety, the environment and the development dimension! francisco assis, i agree with you completely that we need to rethink our economic model. zbigniew zaleski, i agree that trade must not be a form of neo-colonial theft of raw materials from developing countries. i therefore call on mr zaleski and all the others to support amendments nos 20 and 21 in particular. take a good look at them. look also at amendment no 26, which deals with biofuels. we are calling for environmental and social standards for biofuels. the problem is that more and more cereals are used to produce meat, that is to say, to raise animals on cereals, but also that more and more cereals are used to produce fuel for our cars. it is a call to the commission we want measures to reduce private consumption of meat and to reduce private consumption of meat so that we have more grain to feed people! the report calls for urgent action to combat climate change. trade must also take its responsibility. we need to reduce all unnecessary emissions and reduce transport. a large part of the trade is in products that could just as easily be produced locally. we need to do more business with green technology and smart environmental technology. if we do not do this and if trade does not take its responsibility, then we will soon have no raw materials left to trade and then we will have no food left to eat. it's incredibly important that we actually take our climate responsibility to its fullest!
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the subsidised tobacco industry is a clear example of the double standard of the eu and the european parliament. the eu has proudly proclaimed the fight against disease to be a priority and spends a few million swedish crowns on information campaigns every year, while the eu covertly subsidises unprofitable tobacco growers with several billion crowns every year. the report extends the phase-out of these aids until 2013. the rapporteur is trying to clean his hands of the negative effects of tobacco consumption. it is simply claimed that because the eu's tobacco production is so small, only 4%, the impact on final consumption is non-existent. what kind of reasoning is this? would that justify continued subsidies? i believe that the eu's tobacco production is 4% too high. moreover, european tobacco is so bad that only a fraction of it is sold on the european market. one third of it burns up. the tobacco interests have been allowed to rule for long enough. our citizens demand that we take our political responsibility. fellas, this last blow is bad! it's time to get rid of the double standards! i therefore urge you to vote against the report tomorrow.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank commissioner meglena kuneva and the rapporteur, mr lasse lehtinen. i welcome the strategy and am very pleased that it sees consumers as an important group to protect. we know that we will never have a thriving single market unless we have satisfied and secure consumers. but i share the rapporteur's view that continuous monitoring of the strategy is needed if we are to really develop it to the benefit of consumers. however, as rapporteur for strategy in the committee on equality, i am disappointed that the committee responsible did not take account of more than one of our 13 amendments. there are many important and good suggestions. we'd like to see a more gender-specific perspective. consumer policy is definitely not gender neutral. gender should be taken into account as well as children, the elderly and the disabled. i hope we can come back to this in the next follow-up!
for the gue/ngl group. thank you, mr president! consumer rights are often weakly supported and therefore need to be strengthened. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and his colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for their success in strengthening consumer support for the groups most in need of protection: children and the elderly. strong consumer support requires active consumer organisations. alone is not strong. it is through these organisations that consumers become stronger and gain more knowledge and information. therefore, these organisations must have a secure and secure funding. but the uncertainty of today's cross-border purchases must be resolved by the possibility of bringing class actions against companies that break the law. the main problem facing consumers today is the difficulty of adjudicating a dispute between different countries, as there are no bodies to resolve such crossborder disputes. the eu should primarily develop bodies to resolve disputes, not create more eu legislation. the proposal to set up an eu consumer ombudsman is extremely dubious in my view. why create more services to be financed at eu level and thus risk reducing the funding to consumer organisations? it's not good for the consumer. finally, i regret that the amendments from the committee on women's rights and gender equality - as usual, i regret to say - were voted down in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. they deserved a better fate.
mr president, in the internal market consumers and providers, as well as goods and services, should be able to move freely. consumers must not be less protected in other member states than at home if we want to ensure and enhance cross-border activities. therefore, i welcome the horizontal approach in the consumer policy and the better protection it will lead to. it means empowered consumers and strong consumer protection as well as a business-friendly internal market legislation. however, we are concerned about the hasty approach concerning collective redress. it is too early for parliament to take a position. we need thorough studies of the existing systems in the member states and an assessment of the need of a european collective redress system. we do not have enough knowledge at this stage of the consequences in terms of risk abuse, higher costs for consumers and businesses and more regulation. i do not believe that anyone supports the introduction of a european system in the eu knowing all the drawbacks and disproportionate consequences it would bring. for now, we encourage other means of redress which are more rapid and at lower costs and leave the regulation to the member states to be decided nationally. existing instruments and non-legislative tools can be used at eu level. we call on the commission to carry out the study and present its results to parliament and the member states. why go further than what is needed in order to achieve the objectives of the treaty? why take away the possibility of choice for member states keeping different dispute-solving mechanisms? there are many questions to be answered. there is no clear indication so far that an eu-collective redress system brings added value to the internal market and its consumers and businesses. the eu should not legislate without strong reasons.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when anne van lancker began work on the european parliament's opinion, she had the ambition to concentrate it on a few key points because we knew that both the commission and the council would propose that the guidelines should not be changed at all. our tactic was to concentrate on a few points so that they might listen to us to some extent. it hasn't happened. although the basic approach is the same, we now have a lot of amendments, not just a few. i think it would have been better to concentrate on what anne van lancker said - that we are clearly integrating the social dimension, a policy for all those who are outside the labour market and do not share in the wealth. despite the good employment performance, we can see that many of the new jobs are insecure and unprofitable. there's no safety in the workplace. and the discussion we have had on flexicurity should be reflected more clearly in the guidelines because it has been debated for several years. the same applies to gender issues. the council is not here, i think, unfortunately, because it will not listen to parliament at all. they will do exactly as they have decided before. i think that we in the european parliament, at the next triennial review, must seriously consider changing the tactics and the way we work so that parliament has a real say in the future shape of the guidelines.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this report reflects the appreciation of the values which should characterize a free labour market. but there is a major objection: it is wrong to establish such rules at eu level. they then become part of the eu's common acquis, the acquis communataire part of the holy scriptures. the possibility of future reforms is disappearing across the eu. if germany and france had pushed through a common labour market policy for the eu in the 1970s, based on the political ideas that prevailed then, europe's economy would be on the verge of collapse today. the buzzword of the day, flexicurity, is constantly being used in the report. this is because there has been no common labour market policy. denmark has therefore been able to step up and develop something that today looks very promising. the report can be usefully reduced to one sentence: the european parliament recommends that member states take a look at the danish flexicurity model to see if they have anything to learn. that's it.
in writing. - the content of the report is generally positive, but it is hypocritical to talk about social responsibility, local economy and gender equality while at the same time trying to forbid the procurement rules to take these into account. i don't want to contribute to that. the report gives a false picture of reality and i therefore abstain.
in writing. − the report dealing with trade in raw materials and commodities expresses many important issues from a development perspective. the report emphasises the problematic occurrence of speculation in inflating prices and increasing volatility on the markets, which needs to be regulated. it also calls for more support for diversification in developing countries, and highlights the importance of policy space for these countries to enable the development of not least their agricultural sector. the report also criticises the increase of meat consumption, and asks for ways of tackling that. however, the report also expresses points, which we find deeply problematic. this refers foremost to the repeated emphasis on the international competitiveness and the urge for the european industry to secure cheap access to raw materials. we do not support this focus, and can only conclude that the neoliberal face of the eu once more has been articulated. in general the report is a step in the right direction compared with earlier positions of parliament on trade policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i am, however, against the idea of harmonising consumer protection in the eu and calling for more countries to join emu.
in writing. − the report proposes to establish an eu consumer ombudsman. we are sceptical towards this idea for several reasons: this post may create significant expenses which risk underming the funding of consumer organisations. moreover, the creation of another post at european level risks being too remote from citizens. having said this, we still support the report since its strengthens consumers access to collective redress, which is fundamental for consumers’ trust in making safe cross-border purchases.
in writing. - we have chosen to vote in favour of this own-initiative report because it contains a number of good papers on the creation of a sustainable ecological and economic management of the eu's marine areas. we have also chosen to support the idea of a european harbour day. there is reason to be sceptical of major campaigning by the eu institutions, but in this case we chose to support this because the environmental situation in the oceans is a pressing issue. we do, however, consider that the report contains some texts which can be interpreted as being too favourable to commercial fishing. the eu fleet is currently overcapacity and needs to be reduced in the face of dwindling fish stocks. it is wrong to guarantee the employment of professional fishermen in fishing. active labour market training is one of several measures that can be used to empower workers and regions that depend on the fishing industry.
in writing. - we fully share some of the views expressed in this report, such as the urgency of combating sulphur and nitrogen oxide emissions from ships and the over-bureaucratized and centralised nature of the common fisheries policy. however, most of the proposals put forward are negative. we find it difficult to see the added value of the eu establishing an annual day for the sea. we also question the value of eu funding for maritime research, the establishment of an eu-level action plan to map shipwrecks and underwater archaeological sites, and we are critical of the eu institutions' views on spatial planning in coastal areas. the report thus provides another example of the european parliament's attempt to gain influence in an increasing number of policy areas. the respect for the principle of subsidiarity, which is often celebrated but rarely applied, is completely absent. we cannot accept that. we have therefore voted against the final vote.
for the gue/ngl group. thanks to the rapporteur britta thomsen who highlights the problem of gender inequality in science and research. the lack of equality permeates the whole of society. however, through the involvement and opinion-forming of women's organisations and others, awareness of the lack of equality in many areas has increased and more people have realised the negative consequences for society as a whole. but in science itself, it's been quiet for too long. that is why this report is particularly important. while the eu emphasises the role of research in economic development, research is still often reserved for one gender. in the public sector, 35 per cent of researchers are women, in the private sector only 18 per cent. the scientific council of the european research council has 22 members, 5 of whom are women. this report focuses on these problems, but in my view it is not enough. we need to raise the ambition level even further. a comment on the gender equality debate: we still have to defend the demand for gender equality by saying that it is necessary for economic growth and development. when will we be able to say that gender equality is an end in itself that does not need to be defended in economic terms? equal rights are human rights!
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank dimitrios papadimoulis for a great collaboration. i also think that cooperation with the council went well, even though we had some disagreements about the content. first, we must establish that mercury is a toxic and dangerous heavy metal. i'll start with the criticism. i think it is strange that, while we are prohibiting the export of hazardous waste and are almost ending the use of mercury ourselves, we want to delay the export ban so that industry can empty its stocks before it is defined as waste. it is a dangerous chemical which we know will be released into the wild by gold-miners and which will destroy the wildlife of other countries. i really wish we had a much earlier end date. but a compromise is a compromise. i am glad that the industry's voluntary commitments are now incorporated in the legislation so that they are actually implemented and that all the pieces that were essential are included in the export ban, such as cinnamomers, oxides and calomel. in this way, we have at least obtained a comprehensive legislation. when it comes to how we deal with waste, we're talking about fairly small amounts. think of 10,000 tons of liquid mercury. it's actually no more than it would fit here in front of the podium -- it's 10 by 10 by 10 meters. that's all it is. but it's still a very large amount of mercury. a lot of molecules, if you will. we can't release a single one of them into the wild. the only way to effectively implement eu waste legislation is not to permanently deposit mercury in liquid form. for my group, therefore, article 7 was extremely important for a settlement, that is to say the article in which we return to the question of solidifying waste. we cannot have any permanent waste without having reverted to that method. i am glad to say that i recently received an e-mail from the swedish waste company saying that a pilot plant has now been built that can already today handle 500 kg of waste and convert it into insoluble solid form. when we come back to the issue in 2010, i can guarantee that the fixed form is a safe method that complies with eu legislation.
for the gue/ngl group. the content of this report is correct, but i would like to see more concrete action on climate change. nevertheless, the report is supported by the left group. in the report we note that global emissions increased by 70% between 1970 and 2004, that the last decade was the warmest ever and that we are facing several tipping points such as the melting of the greenland ice sheet. that is why we are calling for a reduction in eu emissions of 60-80% by 2050. we are calling for the climate labelling of consumer products and for action to be taken against the large emissions the eu is causing through imports from other countries. we also call for changes in lifestyle patterns. that is absolutely right, but we must also make sure that we make it easier for citizens to live in a climate-friendly way. for example, we must eat less meat and we must travel less by car and by air. unfortunately, the eu subsidizes the meat industry with gigantic sums. and unfortunately, the eu subsidizes the construction of highways that only lead to increased car traffic. our measures against the plane are also far from sufficient. unless we politicians create sustainable systems, we have no credibility in calling on people to change their lifestyles. like i said, we should go further. we need more concrete measures to change and we need to have higher ambitions for reduction. we must also be self-critical and question the economic order that prevails in the eu. the eu is built on the completion of the single market and on continuous growth. it only leads to increased transport and it's not sustainable.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to congratulate karl-heinz florenz on an excellent report. i would point out that it has a very strong political and symbolic significance, which is manifested not least by the fact that the leaders of the three major political groups opened the debate. we agree with the content of the florenz report. it is also written in such a way that all european citizens can actually read the text and understand what we mean. the fact that the design is so educational and clear is another positive point i would like to highlight. however, we still have issues that we need to discuss. i would like to call for support for the amendments dealing with the sea and the 1.5 degrees rise in sea level. we also need to look at public health issues. we shall deal with that in the next report. i expect solid writings in that area by then. we members now have the opportunity to show how determined we are and whether we are serious about our commitment to these issues. avril doyle and i are co-sponsors of the emissions trading act. if everyone is serious about what is being said today before the vote, we also expect strong support for the proposals we will put forward in our respective committees. finally, i would like to point out that we are in the midst of preparing for the copenhagen conference. this preparation must be done in a completely different way, in cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission and with the developing countries. it's only 18 months away.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mrs oomen-ruijten for this report. it underlines that turkey in many areas already is part of european projects, but it also underlines that there is development, there is a movement going on, regarding reform of turkish society. at the same time it underlines that those reforms and those changes are being made far too slowly, that there is much more to do. but that leaves us with a fundamental question: is the european union and are europe and european values better off with a turkey that is fulfilling all the requirements and has made all the reforms that are underlined in the report, or are we better off with a turkey that will maybe lean in the future more to other parts of the world, to other values? i think the answer to this question is quite obvious, and that underlines that we must of course keep the pressure on regarding all the changes that need to be made in turkey with regard to freedom of expression, reform of the article 301 paragraph, freedom of religion, equal rights for women and men, not only in legislation but also in reality, and of course the need for a solution to the cyprus issue and a number of other issues. but with that perspective, if the accession negotiations deliver all these results, it is very important that the european union is open for the membership of turkey because this would strengthen european values, europe and the european union, and i think that is the necessary and obvious conclusion of this debate.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament and the council. we have therefore voted in favour of the proposals that the monday and thursday afternoon sessions of the strasbourg sessions should be closed with the hope that the strasbourg sessions will be closed altogether. the european parliament shall have a single seat and a single place of work. it is regrettable that there are member states whose political leaders consider themselves strong supporters of the idea of europe but at the same time do not want to let go of their own interests.
in writing. − the report on selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile satellite services is about how we will provide a common european satellite service, an important part of strengthening europe's continued competitiveness in high-tech research and industry. the report is good and focuses on how to improve this work. however, a crucial issue of the coverage of this service has become problematic from the swedish point of view, as the compromise was 60 per cent of the eu area. this means that parts of sweden will not be covered, which is negative from the point of view of technological and research development. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. - as the rapporteur points out, improving access for women to science is essential. how we can get there in each country, however, varies according to the culture and other characteristics of the country. the problem is different in the 27 eu member states and therefore the solutions must also vary. it is not possible to make a general statement about the situation of women in all 27 member states. the junilista is convinced that the path to real equality must be tackled at national level. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. they have less financial security and are much more involved in their careers. this is serious, both in principle and in terms of practical consequences. modern economies - and democracies - cannot afford to discriminate against academic leaders. that is why i voted in favour of the report. i would point out, however, that there were parts of the report which were not put to the vote and where i find it difficult to see the reasonableness. paragraph 7 states that age should be considered as a quality criterion along with family situation, including the number of persons for whom the researcher is responsible. i think that is difficult to achieve and possibly even counterproductive. there is always a risk in simplifying gender roles and talking about "qualities that tend to be more prominent in female researchers" or creating different measures of researchers' performance in general. however, i wholeheartedly support the call to introduce a non-binding target of at least 40% representation of both sexes on different types of scientific councils. i also agree with the criticism that the eu sometimes sets ambitions too low when it comes to gender equality. the politics of presence should not be underestimated - even if it cannot be made into a religion.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the interim report on the scientific facts on climate change. a high degree of commitment and determination is required to achieve the best possible outcome in addressing the political challenges of climate change. in this context, we would like to stress the importance of research being free and that a prerequisite for all research progress and development is precisely criticism and questioning. to restrict this possibility is not only a threat to research itself but also a restriction on the right of every individual to express his views. poverty is the biggest polluter and the ambition to reduce climate change is not in contradiction with growth and modernisation. a necessary condition for poor countries to prosper, and thus to have the resources and the opportunity to invest in more modern and cleaner technologies, is that they can trade freely in their goods. in view of this, any co2 duties or equivalent in relation to imports are an inappropriate solution that risks defeating their purpose.
thank you, madam president. i would like to begin by thanking mr bernard lehideux for the excellent work he has done, for the excellent contacts he has had with the chairman and the coordinators during the process and for the fact that we have reached an agreement at first reading. i would also like to thank the representatives of the european training foundation for their efforts, an important work with many extensive links. education, vocational training and lifelong learning are becoming increasingly important. this is important in the eu, but also in the partner countries. there is a need for cooperation between cedefop and the european training foundation. this proposal for a new regulation has some improvements. first, the mandate is extended beyond vocational training to include lifelong learning as a broader concept. it is a concept which we are using more and more and which is important in our politics. secondly, as bernard lehideux said, the number of countries will increase. it covers all partner countries, not just those in the neighbourhood and pre-accession programmes, but all partner countries. thirdly, the links with parliament are even stronger. we have had a good cooperation which can now be developed by the new regulation. i think we have come to a pretty good agreement, partly as regards the way in which we will appoint the director of the foundation, but also that we will be able to appoint three experts without voting rights on the board. we didn't get what we wanted outright, but it's still a good compromise that bodes well for the future. it's a good foundation to stand on. we can develop lifelong learning between parliament and the foundations working on these issues. it's important, you know.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr van hecke for a very good and important report. i once went into politics to make sure that my own country, sweden, would achieve the so-called one per cent target. the liberal people's party - my party at home - is and has always been a force for change in this area, and sweden is indeed meeting this objective. today, nearly 40 years later, i must admit, however, that the disappointments have been many. mismanagement, corruption and poor projects have unfortunately been common. but progress has also often been in the right direction. millions of people around the world have been given a better life and democracies have become more numerous. surely there is room for optimism! but if the legitimacy and support of eu citizens is to remain strong, we must improve our ability to act quickly and effectively. aid must be used in a way that ensures quality and long-term sustainability so that we can meet the millennium development goals. moreover, aid policy must be formulated more from below. the countries receiving aid must be given greater responsibility for what might be called the problem-setting privilege of aid work. the commissioner said that there was a lot of evidence that poor countries were being forced to create more expensive bureaucracies to cope with the administrative burden that is a condition for aid payments. that's not how it was supposed to go! it is also very important to talk more about how to coordinate aid efforts. another perspective that cannot and must not be overlooked is the important role of women in the fight against poverty. criticism of the present formulation of the requirements does not mean that one need not oppose the imposition of conditions on aid. listening to the voices from below also means daring to say that certain military operations should be classified as aid, because peacekeeping can be vital. take the situation in chad, for example, where refugees need protection, as do aid shipments. finally, i would like to raise the sensitive issue of our agricultural policy, which margrete auken raised. the report calls on the commission and the member states to support any measures which might help stabilise commodity prices in developing countries. here i have a proposal along the lines of margrete aukens: an effective, but possibly also cheap medicine scrap the eu's agricultural policy! the commission has already begun to do so, and i am glad to say that.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. we welcome the development of a peaceful and democratic lebanon and welcome the active participation of the eu member states in the peace process. we believe, however, that this work should be carried out within the framework of the independent foreign policy of each member state, especially since the political situation in lebanon concerns sensitive issues on which the governments of the member states are widely divided. the eu should give way to the un on issues such as these, rather than trying to compete to develop its own foreign policy. the un is the international organisation best placed to bring about a lasting solution to the conflict in the middle east and to deal with the political situation.
in writing. - we have chosen to vote in favour of the resolution because the rising food prices are a problem for the world food supply. we regret, however, that parliament is turning a blind eye to the fact that the eu's protectionist agricultural policy is contributing to the lack of a well-functioning food production in large parts of the world.
in writing. − the resolution on rising food prices in the world could have been a valuable addition to the current debate on eu agricultural policy and its consequences. yet, the results were disappointing. the first part states that the trend is towards increased regulation and new stocks, despite the fact that high food prices have made agriculture a truly lucrative sector for the first time in a long time. the second part deals with the 'right to food' in the third world and the importance of giving priority to food over fuel. at the same time, the final vote on the pros and cons of biofuels was very mixed! politics is made up of conflicts of objectives, and the most important thing for a politician is to be able to find a balance and order of priorities between them. this resolution did not. that's why i put my vote down.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. help must reach the hundreds of thousands of people affected. that's the number one priority. we therefore strongly sympathize with the resolution in its criticism of the burmese government, which has put its own power before the survival of its citizens. however, it is not the eu's role to condemn and urge other countries to put pressure on burma to open its borders. nor is it up to the eu to call on the international criminal court to prosecute the burmese government. it is the global community, through the un, that will address these central issues of international law. unfortunately, the eu has a tendency to use disasters to advance its own foreign policy position.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. but such aid can be provided by the member states themselves, directly to the disaster-stricken region. the aid does not have to go through the eu. there are other international organizations better placed to coordinate humanitarian aid. the united nations, with its long experience and global reach, is a clear example of this. we believe that this resolution is another attempt by the eu to act in foreign policy and to use a disaster to take further steps against a federal state which is pursuing a foreign policy.
in writing. - a ban on such weapons must be implemented at global level, through the un, and on the initiative of nation states, not the european parliament. we are opposed to a common european security policy leading to a united states of europe. that is why we voted against the resolution.
in writing. - this report deals with a very important issue. but as always, the committee on agriculture proposes increased appropriations in different contexts from the eu to agriculture. we are therefore forced to vote against the report as a whole, even though we are in principle in favour of measures to improve animal health within the union.
in writing. - junilista supports the aarhus convention, but we believe that the national parliaments should decide their respective positions on their own during the conference on the aarhus convention in riga. the member states which have not ratified the aarhus convention will of course decide independently whether they wish to ratify it or not. in our view, the european parliament should not make such calls.
in writing. − i believe that much can still be done in order to enhance the effectiveness of aid from the eu and its member states, and the report by johan van hecke encompasses important insights. however, i would like to underline that i do not support the phrasing in paragraph 1 stating that the eu should speak with one voice and more harmonisation is necessary.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today's debate was a foretaste of what will happen if the treaty of lisbon is adopted. increased militarisation, increased supranationality and increased costs for the eu at the expense of the independence of the member states. the eu is now representing all of us. twenty-seven wills to become one. i am therefore surprised to see how this european parliament, which claims to be the defender of democracy, chooses to go the federalist route without respecting either the irish referendum or intergovernmental cooperation. the treaty of lisbon is another step towards a common foreign minister, a common military and intelligence service, in short a common defence and foreign policy. citizens of ireland, you are the only ones who have been given the opportunity to stop this dangerous development. i urge you to vote no on 12 june, as we in parliament should do tomorrow.
i should like to begin by saying that i think the gsp, the generalised system of preferences, is a very good instrument for development, because it links trade and development in a very clear way and gives those countries which are making the effort tariff concessions and therefore access to european markets. it is also important that we use it as a development tool. now this is a technical review and it is important that we do not weaken the development dimension for those who need development aid the most, but rather strengthen it. i think in many ways this review does that very well and it takes the tool in the right direction, but it doesn't quite go all the way. i think of vietnam, for example. vietnam is very dependent on one product group, namely shoes. as you probably know, there is a threshold in the gsp system which says that you have to be over 50 per cent of the value of the exports you have to be guaranteed gsp status. right now, vietnam is just under 50 percent. this is in turn due - we should be aware of this - to us, to europe and to the fact that we have punished vietnam with tariffs on the export of shoes. nevertheless, they are still very much dependent on their shoe exports, especially poor women in vietnam. so i wonder: why can't they keep their preference? it's only 3.5%. it is not that they lose, that they get a completely duty-free entry, but they get a little lower duty. in the future, we would also like to have a free trade agreement with vietnam. so i wonder: why throw them out now when we want to take them in and take in this export through a free trade agreement? i therefore hope that you will look at this during the next regulatory period, so that no country will end up in this situation, in this limbo that i think we are placing vietnam in within the gsp system.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the regulation under discussion today is both extensive and complex, and i should like to stress a few points. first of all: the proposal that fishermen caught fishing for blackfish should repay the subsidies they have received from the eu is very good. we cannot allow the taxpayers to be forced to subsidize criminal activity. however, all types of boats are used for blackfish fishing. the proposal should therefore cover all vessels, both eu vessels and third country vessels. secondly: the proposed catch certificate is positive. the certification process plays a key role in the control of blackfish. however, i am more skeptical about maximum fines imposed jointly. member states should be able to meet their responsibilities through dissuasive charges. in conclusion, i believe that the cfp has proved to be a failure and must be reformed. to combat illegal fishing effectively, we need to cooperate internationally, both with regional fisheries organisations and with other international bodies.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. hundreds of thousands of women and children are transported as goods within the eu. they are sexually exploited, abused, threatened, consumed and deprived of all human dignity. what crime do they commit that condemns them to such a life? well, it's poverty and lack of social rights and that there are men who think that with their money they have the right to consume women and children as commodities. mostly, young girls are fooled by false visions of work and good income, but then the nightmare begins. it is a shame for the eu and its member states that this trade continues and is increasing. no one can make excuses anymore that we didn't know. we know, but we're doing too little. we therefore need to get answers from the commission to our questions about the 'red card campaign against forced prostitution'. i'm saying that the sex slave trade is a form of terrorism. the eu and its member states have been very effective in deciding on more or less good counter-terrorism measures. but the ongoing terrorism affecting women and children has not been given this priority, either by the eu or the member states. we also need more men to engage in this tragic trade. it's not just men who have to abstain from buying sexual services. they also have to show other men that it's not okay to buy women's bodies. it is the men who will see to it that the demand for and thus the trade in women's bodies is reduced. as long as there is a demand and a market with great economic benefits, trade will continue. i repeat: women are not for sale. we have to stop this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. on saturday, the kick-off for the european football championship is again and the party can begin. but there's a flip side to this medal. at sporting events of this size, the illegal trade in women and young girls for prostitution always increases. it is therefore important that we react and act just as we did two years ago with the campaign 'red card against forced prostitution'. it is very important that we in the eu work together to achieve a zero-trafficking vision. i therefore appeal to all eu governments that have not yet done so to immediately implement the eu action plan for combating sex trafficking, which was drawn up in 2005. i wish more countries had a sex-selling law, because it's clearly a preventive measure to reduce the sex-slave trade. i also look forward to the study that the commission will present on the situation of prostitution in the member states, and hope that we will soon be able to read it. i want the european football championships, both on and off the pitch, to be characterised by the values that the sporting movement breathes, namely camaraderie, health and fair play. failure to condemn the abominable trade in human beings for the purpose of prostitution is to give it your indirect support.
in writing. we have voted in favour of this report. the hygiene package has caused debate in several member states. including sweden. however, in the vast majority of cases the problem has not been the legislation itself but the implementation of the legislation by national authorities.
in writing. - we have decided to abstain on the grounds e. gusp and the common security and defence policy will probably require increased budgetary resources in the future, but we do not want to prejudge the forthcoming mid-term review of the long-term budget by making a statement on individual items already now.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - we have abstained on all the parts referring to nato, since we come from a country without a military alliance; as regards amendment no 14, we think it is wrong in substance to say that the treaties do not allow military purposes. already today, eu funds are being used for military operations, but not for a common eu defence.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i am also against the militarisation of the eu.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the united states must either bring the prisoners to justice or release them, in accordance with international law. the conditions at guantanamo and other prisons today are totally unacceptable. unfortunately, the report goes beyond this problem to cover too many areas, issues which are the responsibility of other international bodies, in particular the un. we do not believe that the european parliament has a role to play in the political situation in countries outside the eu's immediate vicinity, such as iran, kosovo or iraq. nor should the european parliament, in its efforts to extend a european foreign policy, call on other countries to cooperate and develop common strategies on terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. these are incredibly charged issues that are best regulated from the member states' own perspective and in cooperation with legitimate international organisations on these issues. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services.
in writing. - the eu should not be in charge of everything. the principle of a narrower but more coherent eu means that the eu should only deal with matters under the treaty and that in dealing with border problems proportionality, efficiency and relevance should be taken into account. i have decided to abstain in the final vote on the report on the future of young farmers in view of the ongoing reform of the agricultural policy. the report contains a number of proposals to improve the situation of young newly established farmers and to increase food production. but at the same time, the text also contains elements which are definitely of national importance and which must be decided at national level.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. this own-initiative report contains a number of absurd proposals, such as another 'european year', this time for dialogue between cities and rural areas. if all the 'european years' proposed by the european parliament come to fruition, all the years to come will probably be booked up until the turn of the century. the requirement in paragraph 35 that rural development measures should be directed at farmers reinforces junistans' thesis that the old burdened 'common agricultural policy' is now simply renamed 'rural development' in the eu budget. we note with concern that the european parliament is now calling for the recognition of non-trade related issues, such as import criteria in the context of the wto. we see it as nothing more than a preparation for building up trade barriers and protectionism against the outside world. i have therefore voted against the report.
for the gue/ngl group. the intention of this directive was to establish environmental and quality standards for a range of hazardous chemicals and thus protect waterways against chemicals and other harmful substances. unfortunately, the lobbyists have been adept at influencing both the european commission and the council of ministers. unfortunately, when this matter is now being dealt with for the second time, good intentions have been seriously diluted. for example, only 11 of the 29 chemicals that we in parliament wanted to control are now classified as dangerous substances. there will be no concrete requirements for member states to meet the reduction targets. nevertheless, this compromise is better than what the commission originally proposed. that is why we in the gue/ngl support it, but you can count on us to follow this issue closely and to ensure that the watercourses are indeed better protected in the future. when it comes to the review, we hope that it will be further tightened up. i have a question for dimas, who's here tonight: how do you make individual member states want to go further than what is stipulated in this directive? if individual member states want to classify more substances than those listed in this compromise, would you accept that one individual member state does so and thus has a tougher legislation?
i thank you very much, mr president, commissioner. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, for her excellent work. i would also like to say that i think the initiative to make 2010 the year to combat poverty and social exclusion is a very good one. this year, as vladimir špidla said, we can increase awareness and knowledge of the structures that exist, but that is not enough. it must be accompanied by action, as some members have said before. the situation is generally quite good in the eu, but at the same time poverty is not declining. it is increasing, and many of the victims are, as others have said, women and children. the method is the open method of coordination, but action is required and in a wide range of areas, not just in some. employment is of course important, but so are education, social security systems and a regional policy geared to disadvantaged areas. targeted action is needed for special groups, such as people with disabilities and people from other parts of the world who live in greater poverty than others. i hope that this year, in addition to raising awareness and raising awareness, will also be a starting point for concrete measures to reduce poverty in the eu.
for the ind/dem group. when eu countries exploit the natural resources of poorer countries, they leave a big mark. fisheries in west african waters are close to being depleted, the illegal timber trade is damaging to the environment and the exploitation of other natural resources has proven to have little impact in a poor and politically unstable region. our actions have repercussions for the local population. the report seeks to achieve greater consensus among eu countries and more say in the eu parliament. however, this parliament has a number of special interests represented, which makes a european aid policy a failure. the international work should be done by the un and other organisations. if we really want to change the world, we have to take other actions. what the eu should do instead is to review and reform its own policies. the eu must stop subsidising the failed european agriculture, stop the hidden protectionism that characterizes trade policy and stop the immoral fisheries agreements.
for the ind/dem group. when all the doors are closed, it's easy to take the back way. tens of thousands of people try to enter the eu every year, but the eu is building higher and higher walls around its borders. the efforts are becoming more desperate, and the media regularly report on the number of people who have paid with their lives. today's debate is about those who managed to get in, but who we're now going to throw out. several human rights organisations are criticising the proposed directive, including caritas and amnesty international. we must heed their warnings, because the proposed directive is a violation of human rights. the european added value is not created by our joint decision to detain people for up to 18 months who have not committed a crime. longer captivity will not lead to more returns. it's just an inhumane and expensive solution to a complex problem. the consequences of a ban on entry into the eu for up to five years will be an increase in illegal immigration. desperate people are forced to turn to smugglers, and we will read more and more about the plight of refugees, which will fuel hatred of our part of the west. human rights organizations have warned us. now it is up to us to put our foot down and defend human rights and do it on a national level!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. friday is international refugee day, a day to bring the plight of refugees to the attention of the world. the adoption of the weber report is a cynical step in the wrong direction, which is why the gue/ngl group will vote against it. we are against the construction of a 'fortress europe'. the proposals in the weber report mean that the eu is building higher walls for refugees, but it is also locking up the walls and throwing away the key. instead of undermining human rights, eu countries should work to re-establish the right of refugees under the refugee convention to create legal pathways to seek refuge in europe and to achieve, at least a fundamental, respect for human rights. neither third-country nationals nor nationals of member states shall be subject to any breach of their personal liberty or to any penalty of imprisonment for administrative offences.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking manfred weber and all those who have made this discussion possible on a first step towards common rules and procedures on return. compared with the committee's and parliament's previous discussions, i believe that certain key issues are leading in the wrong direction and to a more inhumane europe. first of all, 18 months of locking people up is not acceptable. you can go crazy, and these people are not criminals or criminals, but people who are looking for a better life for themselves and their families, away from poverty. secondly, if the council and the rapporteur do not believe in voluntary return, children will be torn away from schools and kindergartens, homes will be abandoned in an emergency and we will do more damage than perhaps all the previous expectations, especially to children. thirdly, after parliament adopted the children's strategy in january, we cannot now back down and lock up children or treat them as proposed. it can cause children permanent damage, and i don't want to be a part of that. fourthly, the commission five years is too long to be denied re-entry if you have a reason. even in the best of worlds, groups cannot be lumped together, but individual reasons must be determined and tried, such as women and children in human trafficking. many human rights organisations have expressed their concerns and concern that the compromise is insufficient and insensitive to human rights. the amendments tabled by the socialist group are welcome. thank you, madam speaker.
who could have imagined when mečiar was running slovakia that the country would not only join the eu but also adopt the euro just over 10 years later. it's a slovakian miracle with truth. the rapporteur points out the benefits of the euro, but also the risks and problems that may arise. it is good that slovakia has accepted the ecb's view of the risk of increased inflation with the entry into the euro and i believe that it was therefore necessary to write off the krona after consultation. this shows both the clarity and confidence of a future sound economic policy as a member of the eurogroup. mr president, i hope that my own country will also realise in the near future the importance, both economically and politically, of being fully involved in eu cooperation. although referendums are not very popular these days, i hope that in 2010-2011 we will be able to hold a referendum and vote to introduce the euro in sweden. the financial crisis has shown what a strong european currency and an efficient central bank mean to protect the eu's growth and economy. by maintaining strict entry criteria and providing constructive assistance to all those who wish to join the eurogroup, the eu economy will be even stronger.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. there is no need to codify legislation which should be withdrawn and regulated by technical standards through technical committees.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the provision of services, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. as crime moves across borders, law enforcement must adapt to it. we therefore support the framework decision and the enhanced cooperation to simplify and make more efficient the exchange of information on convictions between member states. however, we strongly disagree with the article in the report which deals with the treatment of data on, inter alia, racial or ethnic origin, political opinions and religious or philosophical beliefs.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive.
in writing. - we have chosen to fully support the compromise reached between the european parliament and the council of ministers. the compromise means that binding recycling targets are being introduced, which is very positive. however, we would have liked to see a narrower definition of by-products and even higher recycling targets.
in writing. - we expect the eu member states to take continuous action to combat poverty. policy makers, as well as public and private actors, must take responsibility and work for, for example, improved conditions for work, entrepreneurship and education, and for the prevention of social exclusion and the fight against poverty. we do not, however, believe that the eu should carry out information and public relations campaigns directed at citizens. the 17 million euro earmarked for the european year would do more good in the hands of the poorest.
in writing. − in march 2000, the european council called on the member states and the commission to take action to 'decisively seek to eradicate poverty' by 2010. this would be done through the open method of coordination, which is in itself a positive approach, since it is a decentralised approach. the fight against poverty is a matter of utmost urgency. however, this work will be carried out essentially by the member states, in cooperation with international organisations with broad democratic legitimacy, such as the united nations. we are opposed to several points in the commission's proposal, and not least in the report of the european parliament, which stresses the value of structural aid and the importance of eu support for the outermost regions. we are also critical of the european year against poverty, a theme year celebrated in the present report. there are already corresponding international years and campaigns. we must ask ourselves whether it is worthwhile to allocate eur 17 million for such an eu year and what the concrete added value is. we are convinced that these funds would be of greater use in the national budgets of the member states, where they could make a real contribution to the urgent fight against poverty and social exclusion. we have voted against the proposal on the basis of the above arguments.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we do not believe that cohesion is strengthened by defining additional vulnerable groups in society or by establishing additional statistical categories. instead, we consider the formulation of distribution policy to be a national responsibility. moreover, the european parliament should not already be calling for an extension of the aid beyond 2013, as this would undermine the results of the policy.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would firstly like to congratulate mrs morgan on her efficient work on the report. i would just like to say one thing in response to her intervention earlier today: do not let member states run away from their responsibility to fight energy poverty and secure the well-being of their citizens; do not let any government abdicate that responsibility. having said that, i would like to emphasise what i think is the most fundamental question in this discussion, namely: are the european energy markets good enough? are they functioning well enough? is the legislation good enough regarding consumers’ well-being, low prices, industry and competitiveness, and the opportunities to make the best use of all energy sources, not least renewables? i think it is fair to say that the answer is ‘no’ if we are to respond to the challenges of climate change, to decrease energy dependency and to connect the european energy markets with each other. that is why we need reform and why it is important to get a level playing field opening up for new entrants, ensuring that we have open and fair competition. it is in this perspective that we need to look at the discussion about ownership unbundling. i think the council has a responsibility to make a compromise among its members. parliament also has a responsibility to try to contribute to the best possible solution and we have a common responsibility. i ask both the current presidency and the incoming presidency to take this question seriously. the energy markets of today are not good enough. we have a common responsibility to achieve the best possible solution and that is why i hope you will listen to parliament and we will listen to you.
the electricity market has been more or less monopolized in all the industrialized countries. economic research has shown the major socioeconomic benefits of making the electricity market a competitive market, but it is also important to break up vertical ties. electricity producers should not also manage the distribution of electricity to customers, a so-called unbundling of the electricity industry is required. few eu countries are implementing such reforms. this is the case for the nordic countries, the united kingdom, the netherlands and spain. the eu institutions have not been needed. countries do so in their own self-evident interests. opposition is strong in many important countries, such as france and germany, which are more interested in the eu state than in the prosperity of a free internal market. there is a strong incentive for the eu to pursue them. efficiency and prosperity for all europeans will increase if competition in the electricity sector covers the entire vast eu market. what is needed is political pressure on those member states which do not want competition.
thank you, mr president. efsa's job is to assess whether something is dangerous. the commission and parliament have a duty to assess whether something is in accordance with general policy principles such as good animal husbandry, not misleading the consumer, maintaining a high level of environmental protection in accordance with the precautionary principle. then this proposal is unethical and inappropriate and an undesirable method of treating chicken. in this case, moreover, the committee on veterinary affairs is almost unanimously opposed to the method. i would like to add a dimension: fraudsters have long used chlorination of chicken to make it look more pink and fresh. we are not going to give the impression that we are going to support fraudsters in favour of farmers who have invested millions, not least in my own country, to improve the situation. some labelling rules will not work, especially in restaurants, for example. turn this into a victory now, withdraw the motion and go with the support of unanimity in parliament and unanimity in the council and say to the united states: no, we don't accept your methods.
mr president, allow yourself to think: if the irish had voted ‘yes’, does anyone here believe that our green t-shirts would have had the text ‘respect the irish vote’? the truth is that they neither respect the irish, nor democracy. they only respect a ‘no’, and that is quite unique. when sweden entered the european union, there were 12 member states. it was 1995. today there are 27 member states. that is quite a change, and i think very few can question that europe has become much, much better because of this enlargement and this magnitude of development. we can say today, when we are discussing the irish referendum, that those who were saying ‘no’ all the time were wrong all the time, and we who advocated a future development of the european union have been proved to be right. so let us proceed in the same way in which we have achieved those results, with persistence, vision, democracy and respect for each member state. let us proceed with democracy in each member state with a ratification process, but also respect the decision of each member state, while also remembering persistence. we need to go further regarding the energy market, the internal market and how to achieve better results in all areas, but also to understand that the nice treaty is not enough if we are to proceed with the same development and the same visions with which we have achieved so much. so let us proceed and let us be the europe that says ‘yes’. let us remember that the ‘no’ people have achieved nothing in this europe. (applause)
i fully share the view that each member state has the right to express its views. it's a democratic right. i also believe that the lisbon treaty is in many respects better than the current treaties. this concerns the possibilities for further enlargement and greater openness, but also the rights of workers. when i visited ireland and met with trade union representatives during the campaign, there was a legitimate concern that the balance between market and social rights is not the right one today. the court of justice's judgments in the laval and rüffert cases were also cited in ireland. the two most serious consequences are: first, there is no equal treatment after the judges. those from member states with lower wage conditions have to be content with the minimum wage and not with equal pay. secondly, the right to strike was restricted in a way that is totally unacceptable. these are questions which the council and the commission must address. it is a question of balancing the social europe with the market europe. if we do not achieve this balance, the people will turn their backs on the eu. we all have a responsibility here, all three institutions, and we must do it soon.
in writing. the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union. that is why we are voting against the motion.
in writing. - the junilist is strongly critical of this report and of the compromise supported by certain political parties; a country's refugee policy is a matter of strictly national character and should be decided in accordance with a country's legal culture. the report is a major step forward in the eu's attempt to enforce a european immigration policy with a strong offensive against illegal immigrants. it calls for the arbitrary and consistent detention of people who have committed no crime but have merely crossed a national border. the report proposes to totally exclude people from european soil for five years, regardless of their situation, which means a fortress europe. the eu should be a union of values that upholds human rights and human values, but this proposal goes against that. organisations such as the unhcr and the united nations high commissioner for refugees already exist to respect the human rights of vulnerable people and to set humanly acceptable rules and standards. the junilista rejects this report and hopes that other members will do the same.
in writing. - we welcome this resolution, as we support the common commercial policy and customs legislation as a prerequisite for the functioning of the internal market. we would point out, however, that we are deeply critical of many of the trade agreements that have actually been concluded between the eu and third countries.
in writing. − chicken slaughter has not been shown to be harmful to health or otherwise, and our views should always be evidence-based. i have therefore voted against this report in the name of free trade, which i regard as being motivated by protectionism. however, given the widespread public concern in the eu about chlorine-dried chicken, it is of the utmost importance that we have legal labelling requirements so that every individual can choose to avoid this product, for example in the retail trade or in restaurants.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president! - what is it? first of all, a big thank you to jutta haug. it has taken account of several of the views of the committee on industry. for example, she has pointed out what we think is important, namely that there is a certain difference between the commission's annual policy statement and what is actually proposed in the budget in terms of, for example, climate and energy policy. last year, the debate on the budget in the committee on industry focused on two main areas, namely galileo and the european institute of technology. we can now see that implementation in these areas has started well, although we are still monitoring implementation. this year, therefore, we can concentrate on energy and climate policy instead. we have had a lot of views on this in the committee on industry. we are particularly concerned about the insufficient margin, 82 million under budget heading 1a. it is far from sufficient for these important priorities. we understand that the council is now trying to increase the margin for the 2009 budget, including through some administrative cuts. it is optional unless it means that we are making it more difficult to implement the seventh framework programme, for example, but it is not likely to be enough. just to give you an idea of the scale of the problem: the rapporteur, mr buzek, for the strategic energy technology plan, is talking about eur 2 billion per year from 2009 onwards for the so-called set plan alone. i do not know if this is realistic, but it does give the impression that energy and climate policy require substantial new resources. the seventh framework programme, like the sip innovation programme, has some money for energy and climate policy, but remember that those levels were set back in 2005, i.e. long before we had any idea of what the 2008 climate and energy policy would look like. we are also about to launch several so-called joint ventures, including the development of fuel cells and hydrogen technology. the commission is now proposing 30 million as an initial resource for this purpose. however, it is proposed that the money should be taken from the seventh framework programme's cooperation programme and its energy component. it is not a real increase, but a redistribution. we want a comprehensive picture of the whole energy and climate policy effort because it is almost impossible to get one today. this must start to be substantially re-resourced as early as 2009. we are also convinced that the energy and climate issues are the strongest argument for a substantial mid-term review of the long-term budget starting next year.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to begin by thanking the commission, commissioner vassiliou and her always helpful staff, the slovenian presidency, the council of ministers and my colleagues the rapporteurs avril doyle, mojca drčar murko and of course also the shadow rapporteurs from all the parties for a very good cooperation during the years we have been working on these issues. i am glad that we have now found a compromise which both simplifies business and strengthens consumer protection in a number of areas. for example, in the past, allergy sufferers were not even mentioned in legislation. they will if we agree to the compromise tomorrow, and then it will be easier in the future to take account of the way allergy sufferers are affected by additives. i am also proud that we have got three crucial changes in the new rules through parliament. the first change concerns so-called azo dyes. for example, they are found in soft drinks and candy, even though it has been scientifically proven that certain azo dyes can make children hyperactive. that is why it has been important for me and the environment committee to ban these substances. we have not succeeded in doing so because the member states are strongly opposed to this and to a specific labelling. despite this opposition, we have now at least been told that food containing these azo dyes must be accompanied by a clear warning. the second change concerns the environmental impact of additives. an example of the environmental impact of additives is the sweetener sucralose. sucralose has been shown to penetrate the body and not be purified in our wastewater treatment plants. if the compromise is accepted, it will now be clear that environmental considerations should be taken into account when deciding on additives. the third change is about nanotechnology. the compromise means that if an already authorised additive is modified by nanotechnology, it will be considered a new additive and will have to go through a new authorisation procedure. as regards the regulation on the common procedure, i welcome, firstly, the fact that we now have such a common procedure. secondly, it has been important to ensure that efsa is given sufficient time for its evaluations of different substances. the green group has tabled amendments to ban azo dyes, which are therefore contrary to the compromise with the council on additives. in doing so, they put at risk all the improvements mentioned above, including a specific warning label for azo dyes. i would have liked to see a ban, but it's not possible to get through to the council of ministers. i therefore intend to vote against a ban, because otherwise we risk not receiving either a ban or a warning text, which would certainly not be in the interests of the children. in conclusion, i would therefore urge all members in this house to support the compromise tomorrow and to vote against all the other amendments.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. our constituents want good, safe and secure food. do these regulations give them that? we have been able to push through some improvements on the part of parliament. what i am personally very happy about is that nanotechnology will finally be regulated and that it will no longer be possible to smuggle it onto the market without proper controls. the inclusion of the environment as one of the criteria for the approval of additives is an improvement. the inclusion of azo dyes on the labelling is an improvement. so there is something to rejoice about. the commission has also been asked to present a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i am surprised, however, that the council is fighting against the will of its constituents. how can our governments actively counteract the fact that a text which says additives should not mislead the consumer into thinking that the food contains other ingredients than are actually present? how can they actively counteract it? ministers actively oppose the use of colouring agents as a specific reason for using colouring agents for otherwise colourless substances. the council of ministers actively opposed a ban on azo dyes. they actively opposed the inclusion of pesticides used as preservatives on the labelling to inform consumers. i believe that if we approve the green group's proposal to ban azo dyes in products for children, we will force the council to defend its position in the public debate. it is easy for the council to say such things when it is negotiating with us behind closed doors, but what government wants to stand there and approve additives which we know cause overactivity in children and which we have good reason to believe cause allergies in children? i wonder if the commission could not go straight to a ban. after all, dyes are hardly indispensable necessary additives. in addition, there are other colourants than azo dyes. if we are to fight for the precautionary principle, once the efsa has shown that there are allergic and allergic reinforcements, then we must simply ban it. we don't need to continue discussing azo dyes after that.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank commissioner vassiliou again for her support on the azo dyes. we really appreciate that this was one of the first questions you addressed when you took up your post. it also showed that you are ready to take up your responsibility as a commission, that you have not only to follow the recommendations of efsa but also a responsibility to make an independent evaluation of all the aspects of the supplementary legislation. you've certainly shown that you're willing to take that responsibility. i think that the debate here tonight underlines that the european parliament will of course also be following closely the efsa review of the allergenic effects of azo dyes and also the commission's position on this evaluation. we will of course also follow other studies which will be presented on the effects of azo dyes on, for example, the behaviour of children, in order to possibly return to this question. finally, i would like to say that it is one thing what the legislation looks like, but then it must also be applied. i think many consumers share my view that in fact you are often cheated in the shop today. i would like - and i think it is a legitimate request - for the member states to tighten up their supervision and, together with the commission, really ensure that the legislation we have on the table to vote on tomorrow is actually followed and complied with, so that consumers do not come home with, for example, fruit and yoghurt which they think contains a lot of fruit or berries, but which they only discover to be colourings if they read the packaging carefully.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when you walked through the corridors of parliament yesterday, there were a lot of stickers on the floor from the european chemical lobbyists' organisation, and some of them are still there today. i wonder if the quaestors, when they gave permission for the exhibition, gave permission to the organization to put stickers all over our floors. if so, i think that decision would be wrong. if the quaestors have not given any such permission, i think that cefic has clearly breached its lobbying commitments and should therefore be deprived of its access passes or at least given a strong reprimand. i hope you can look at what has really happened and make sure that all these stickers are removed immediately.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a gas pipeline on the bottom of the baltic sea would increase climate emissions and pose serious environmental risks to the sensitive ecosystems of the baltic sea. the balance of the biological system is in danger of being upset. what will happen to all the land mines that are lying on the seabed? the planned pipeline if it is implemented as planned is a major betrayal of the commitment so often expressed in words in the climate discussions. however, the talk about climate change must be taken seriously and translated into concrete actions and measures. any lock-in in billions of dollars in natural gas investment delays the necessary investment in alternative renewable energy and goes against all the objectives of environmental protection and of halting climate change. the baltic sea and climate issues must be brought into focus, which is why we demand that nord stream disclose an alternative land route before any decision is taken on a possible future gas pipeline - this in full accordance with the swedish government's decision in february this year.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the pipeline is based on three fundamental flaws: it's environmentally wrong, it's investing billions in fossil gas instead of renewable energy, and it's going to be environmentally destructive and release huge amounts of sludge. when we built the six-mile-long öresund bridge, much more toxic sludge was released than we thought. this line is over 1,000 kilometers long. it's going to be an environmental disaster with pcbs, ddt and chemical warfare on the bottom. it is based on selfishness rather than solidarity. germany and russia are making up over the heads of other countries that will not have access to any gas, which is also terrible. what is worse is that it is undemocratic. you put it in the ocean to avoid the possibility of landowners shutting down the pipeline. you put it in the sea, because maybe only a few governments can say no in their territorial waters. it is you, mr commissioner, who, under the espoo convention, have the right to defend the non-territorial part of the baltic sea. it is you, and only you, who can defend the rights of landowners in the espoo convention and demand alternative drawings.
mr president, to my colleague mr matsakis i would say that i live close to the baltic; he does not. in the name of environmental solidarity, he should show some concern for the baltic as well. herr talman! ibland hör man inlägg i denna kammare som man lyssnar extra noga på, och det är på inlägg av vytautas landbergis. med den erfarenhet landsbergis har av de politiska förutsättningarna för en region att skapas och bildas i trygghet, så tycker jag att vi har all anledning att lyssna på det inlägget. jag skulle vilja säga till kommissionsledamot dimas och till kommissionen att det för mig hela tiden har varit obegripligt att inte eu och ni, herr kommissionsledamot, och övriga i kommissionen har reagerat på detta gigantiska projekt – säkerhetspolitiskt, energipolitiskt, miljöpolitiskt. jag har ställt frågan flera gånger och fått väldigt undflyende svar. jag förstår inte varför det tog så lång tid för er att engagera er i denna fråga som berör hela europa, inte bara ryssland och inte bara tyskland.
madam president, i would like to thank you. after listening to the debate today and reading all the amendments, i get the feeling that some people think that only talks are good and helpful and that all military presence is bad and counterproductive. i don't know how many of the members of this chamber are war refugees, but i am. i know that we need both civilian cooperation and a military presence. my experience of war is that those who are most willing to talk have no power, and that the violent men, smugglers and warlords who have power are seldom willing to have any conversation. that is why a combination of military and civilian action is needed if we are to seriously break the vicious circle of violence and poverty in afghanistan.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. this summer could be the first arctic summer without ice. some of the world's largest glaciers are now moving across the north atlantic from the greenland ice sheet. never before have so much ice and snow melted as in recent years. i saw it with my own eyes when i visited greenland last year. even the experts on the un's climate panel are amazed at the melting that is taking place. of course, this frightening development is directly linked to our emissions and global warming. it is we in the rich world -- the united states, australia, japan and of course the european union -- who are to blame for this. that is why we must tackle all sectors that contribute to the emission of carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases. so far, the aviation industry has increased its emissions by about 100 percent since 1990. the airline industry has so far gotten away with it. aviation fuel is exempt from taxation, and municipalities and regions often subsidize airports in europe. here in the eu we fly to an ever-increasing extent. the compromise we are now about to adopt is unfortunately far from the necessary measures that we in the gue/ngl group wanted. the reduction requirements for aviation should have been higher, emissions other than co2 should have been included, the emission allowances should not have been given out for free. this is at least an agreement which is a small step in the right direction. the airline will be forced to reduce its emissions, and a small part of the emission allowances will have to be auctioned. the auction will also provide us with revenue that will be used for climate action in europe and in developing countries. in conclusion, i would like to put a question to the commission: can you promise that countries which want to take parallel measures to reduce aviation emissions, such as the uk's air passenger duty, can continue to do so?
in writing. we have voted against amendments nos 14 to 19. this is a second-instructional settlement. the member states opposed both the labelling and the ban of azo dyes in the council of ministers but were eventually forced to agree to a compromise on labelling. this is a great victory which we do not want to risk by voting for populist amendments which have no prerequisite to lead to any real improvement. we swedish social democrats have worked and will continue to work for a ban on azo dyes, but we are not going to engage in populist games or any populist voting which means that we are putting children's health at risk unnecessarily.
in writing. - we have voted against the report on amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament. we have chosen to do so because own-initiative reports aimed at legislative work can have a considerable impact on the work to be done. members of the european parliament should therefore also be able to influence such reports in plenary, in accordance with the procedure applicable to legislative reports. although a review of the written procedure is necessary, we believe it is of the utmost importance to preserve the independence of members and their right to ask questions to the other institutions as regards their decision-making and responsibilities.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the starting point is to ensure that the appropriations for the items of expenditure proposed by the commission are sufficient. there is thus no limit to the amount the european parliament is prepared to spend. in my view, this is the wrong approach. the framework must be used to establish the necessary priorities for the various items of expenditure. the multiannual financial framework requires greater flexibility within this framework. i therefore support the idea that the margins created on the agricultural side should be used for other purposes.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. however, we believe that parliament has expressed a clear line on environmental impact assessment, which we support and welcome. we expect that a thorough and independent examination will be the basis for further decisions. the baltic sea is a sensitive area and is already heavily polluted. it is therefore of the utmost importance that environmental impact can be kept to a strict minimum if permits are to be granted for the construction of the gas pipeline.
in writing. the report also stresses that the eu should continue to support the efforts of the afghan government to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the country. the european parliament is proposing a number of positive measures to improve the situation. unfortunately, parliament also chose to support a proposal to stop spraying opium farms in large parts of the country. of course, rural people must be supported, but opium cultivation cannot be a long-term option for afghanistan's growth, democracy and political stability. it harms both afghanistan's opportunities and the health of others.
mr president, whatever we talk about, whether environmental or security issues, climate change or european competitiveness, the energy markets and how they function in the future are crucial. this also applies to the discussion about the next phase of our legislation regarding carbon dioxide emissions: how to share the burdens and how to develop a scheme of european emissions trading. that is why i would like to turn to the presidency and stress that, when we have debated here today and voted tomorrow on the second part of the energy package, it is of the utmost importance that the presidency start the discussions between parliament and council. there must be no delays, because we need to have these markets functioning with a new legislation in place. we can ask ourselves whether the european energy markets are functioning as well as they should. the answer is very easy: they are not. there is a difference between the electricity market and the gas market. electricity is dependent on a number of different sources of energy and different producers, while gas tends to be more dependent on distributors. that is why the difference in the legislation which we are talking about – namely that we have full ownership unbundling on electricity and this scheme that the committee on industry, research and energy decided on in parliament – is acceptable. but what is important is to ensure that this is discussed and negotiated as soon as possible. it is important to make sure that the legislation on gas allows for a separation between production and distribution that also gives real strength to the third-country clause of the energy package. once again i would like to underline to the presidency that negotiations should start as soon as possible. do not delay until october. we need to start now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european energy market is in very serious trouble. we have an import requirement that will go up to 65 percent by 2030. we have consumers who cannot choose the kind of energy they want, and who are suffering from rising energy prices and the effects of greenhouse gases and climate change. the paparizov report under discussion today states that we need to have more cooperation between system operators and that we need to have more investment in the gas market. that's good, but it's not enough. the buzek report on research and innovation states that we are investing far too little. i would remind you that parliament wanted to increase investment in research and that we are about to enter into new budgetary negotiations. the la russa report is about breaking up the monopoly and improving the functioning of the gas market. those who oppose this view argue that breaking the monopoly between owners and distribution would lead to higher energy prices. i have to ask the following question: when we have rising energy prices and the climate effect, do we solve it through multiple monopolies? that's not true! the result of the votes in the committee gives us some of what we need, but we still have a lot of steps to take to have a functioning, environmentally friendly energy market in europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am a strong advocate of free trade and allergic to protectionism, but that does not mean i have to be naive. one of the problems with sovereign wealth funds is their enormous growth. since february of this year alone, assets have increased by $600 billion to now approach $4 trillion, or $4,000 billion. it's power! this, combined with the fact that many of these funds do not have sufficient transparency, as has been mentioned, in how they invest and also that some of them come from non-democratic countries, i think indicates that we should be interested. the funds are needed, the investments are needed, but we need a framework of rules and regulations that apply to all, where transparency should serve as an example. the norwegian oil fund is an example, as has been mentioned in the debate. it should also serve as a guideline for the establishment of a code of conduct. madam president, when the sun is shining we don't need umbrellas, but when it rains we may need them.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? mr trichet, please! the commission is not the european central bank is the subject of all eyes. the current uncertain economic environment with financial uncertainties is putting the ecb under great pressure. i'm convinced that last week's interest rate hike was the right decision. inflation is an abomination that unfairly redistributes wealth. europe's political leaders should be grateful to have an independent central bank ready to act to prevent europe from falling into stagflation, low growth and rising inflation. ten years after its introduction, the euro is a world currency. the security and stability that the euro has brought to the euro area and the union as a whole, including my own country, and to the global economy, is something that no one could have dreamed of. ireland's 'no' in the referendum did not give a reaction to the strength of the euro. asymmetrical economic developments among euro area countries may pose a risk, but this can be remedied by adhering to the stability pact's requirements for sound public finances and continued structural transformation in the member states. at the same time, there is a point in reviewing the ecb's work after ten years; transparency, openness, decision-making and the international role of the euro could be improved. the committee therefore proposes that the ecb should present a new proposal on how to make decision-making more clear and efficient as the eurogroup grows. the ecb should explain the discussion between the members of the governing council when deciding on the key policy rate in order to increase transparency and further emphasise predictability. the role of the president of the eurogroup should be strengthened to better reflect the importance of the euro also in international contexts. the provision of better information to the market on the ecb's interest rate decisions has long been a key issue for parliament, as has the publication of the minutes and the result of the vote. however, the ecb has refused to do so on the grounds that it would create national divisions within the ecb's management. mr trichet, we have heard your views and the committee is now putting forward an amended proposal. the ecb's management shall be more clear in the information provided after the interest rate decision, i.e. whether agreement was reached without discussion or whether there were difficulties in reaching a common position. this would be an important step towards improving the dialogue between the market, us politicians and the ecb. inflation is at record highs, now at around 4%, well above the medium-term inflation target of around 2%. not only the dollar but also other currencies have weakened considerably against the euro, which has revived the exchange rate debate. the enlargement of the euro area gives the monetary area more weight, but also brings more challenges, as decision-making becomes more cumbersome and differences in economic development between members increase. the crisis in the mortgage market has shown that financial stability is a global issue, as crises are no longer confined to one country or region. the coordinated efforts of the federal reserve and the bank of england have done much to keep the financial system afloat but have not solved the crisis. this has also highlighted the need for better cooperation between central banks and other institutions. the fact that the ecb and the fed both warned against underestimating the risk of the mortgage crisis without much success shows the increasing vulnerability of the world's financial markets. there is a need to act here, as parliament is now doing, for example, by following up the lamfalussy process to modernise the european supervisory structure. the single monetary policy and the ecb face major challenges in the coming years. i am convinced that the eu leaders and the ecb will prove themselves to be mature. but then, too, all eu leaders must understand that price stability and sound public finances are the cornerstones of growth and jobs. it is therefore remarkable that the french president, not least in his current role as president of the council, is questioning the ecb's stability objectives. in my view, europe's leaders should instead explain the aims and objectives of monetary policy in an open dialogue with the citizens. rampant prices and compensatory wage increases are the worst enemies of prosperity.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to thank you for an extremely interesting and stimulating debate. it shows that there is a great deal of support for the ideas and conclusions we draw in the report. i would also like to thank mr juncker and mr trichet for the good answers they have given. you are responding in a way that will also make you accept the views and opinions that we have expressed here. let me conclude by sharing my own experience as a politician in the somewhat smaller country of sweden up in the north. i was a member of the swedish parliament and its finance committee in the 1990s, when sweden entered the economic wall. political experience is good, my friends. you who believe that inflation and an unstable monetary policy will help the people who need our support the most are wrong. you're wrong! as a politician in the finance committee, i was able to see the swedish interest rate reaching heights that no one could have imagined at 500 percent. we had, in the 1990s, as mr juncker says, mass unemployment, rising inflation and stagflation. i have these experiences with me, and they have made me hope that my own country, sweden, will join the euro area and participate fully in european cooperation. as our colleague mr kauppi said, and as mr trichet always says, nobody thought the euro would be the success it has been. i think that shows the good cooperation that exists in europe. mr juncker, you said that the ecb should handle its determination with elegance. i think that's a good expression. i want to thank you for a good debate. i would also like to thank you for allowing me, who is outside euro-cooperation, to take responsibility for this report.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs. jean lambert has been working on these issues for as long as i can remember and has a great deal of experience. emine bozkurt came in a little later, but both of them have done a fantastic job and, above all, worked very well together with the shadow rapporteurs from the different parties. a little general first, because it's repeatable. this is not a question of harmonization. we know that social security systems in the eu differ. it is about the right of citizens to be able to use the internal market to look for jobs, to be able to stay elsewhere in the internal market. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we have a coordination of social security systems. it is a question of coordinating pension rights. it is about the possibility for the unemployed to take advantage of the internal market. it's about sick people who can seek treatment in other countries. this is essential for the internal market. without such coordination, the internal market would not function satisfactorily. we've had this coordination before. it's had its flaws. improvements are now being made, partly by the presence of more people, not just professionals, and partly by the inclusion of more areas of concern, such as early retirement, which we welcome. i would like to point out a few points that have been raised in our speeches. jean lambert has mentioned electronic exchange and is positive about it, because it brings many improvements. however, it is also a matter of protecting the individual when such an exchange is made. that's why we're going along with the data controller. it is important that this issue be included in the agenda for third country nationals, not least because of the blue card. it is even more urgent that we have a principle of equal treatment. as regards the report by mrs bozkurt, i would just like to say that the new regulation will not reduce rights, but increase them. it's important, you know. i thank the rapporteurs again and hope that we can reach an agreement in the near future.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. - i oppose any attempt to reduce democracy and the diversity of opinion in parliament by changing, among other things, the number of members and the member states in order to have the right to form political groups. despite this view, i voted in favour of the compromise amendment in the corbett report. the reason is pragmatic: it was the only way to vote in order not to risk a decision which would be even worse from a democratic point of view and would make it even more difficult to form a political group.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report as better cooperation and transparency between national courts/judges and the ecj are of the utmost importance for a functioning european judicial system. this needs to be clearly articulated and then implemented through improved training and opportunities for networking and knowledge exchange. however, we consider that the discussion in paragraphs 26 and 27 on the jurisdiction of the court of justice in certain areas is a treaty question on which the european parliament has already expressed its opinion.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. we have been cautiously positive about the capture and storage of co2, but we are questioning whether it is necessary to support, for example, the gasification of coal to further develop this technology. we are also in favour of research and development into new sources of energy with low or no carbon emissions. we support the union's co-financing of this research, but we do not think we should pre-empt the budgetary work by asking the commission in advance to allocate specific sums. we have therefore decided to abstain on these two points.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. however, with regard to the text in the explanatory statement of the report which speaks of the need for sweden to adopt the euro, we would like to point out that we respect the result of the swedish referendum in 2003 which decided that sweden would retain the krona as its currency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think it is good that we are stating that enlargement is a success. i am glad that we are reaffirming that countries to which we have previously given clear promises and a clear european perspective still have it. i am, however, very concerned that the tone is becoming colder every time we discuss enlargement. the words 'adequacy', 'absorption capacity', 'political consolidation' and 'risks to social and economic cohesion' are being used more and more frequently. these are words which to my ears do not sound like a vision or a goal but rather a way of guarding against possible future enlargements. the enlargement fatigue of public opinion in our countries is increasingly cited, but not enough is being done to change that opinion. it is no coincidence that it was germany and france, which for centuries were at war with each other, that were also the ones who started the whole eu project. it is no coincidence that it was the leaders of france and germany who had a vision of the future of europe. they understood that the european union is first and foremost a peace and security project, much more than just an economic project. it is this vision and the kind of leadership that i seek more and that i so often lack here. i therefore appreciate the clarity of commissioner rehn that we must not create a waiting room for countries that aspire to become members and that enlargement has a future. i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for that.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, karl von wogau, for a good and clear report. i'll start with something that at first glance doesn't seem to have much to do with space, namely the balkan war. so in retrospect, we know that europe made quite a few mistakes in the different balkan wars of the 1990s. europe made these mistakes not because of a bad common foreign and security policy, but because of a total lack of a common foreign and security policy. yet there are people who oppose both the common foreign and security policy and the areas covered by the report. i share karl von wogau's view that satellite monitoring systems should be financed from the european budget, not only for the purpose of using such a system for security purposes, but also for other purposes of common interest, such as environmental purposes. i would also like to point out that in these important but also sensitive issues, such as the space dimension of europe's security, it is good to have a system that is not dependent on the united states, that is based on increased cooperation between member states and that makes better use of resources. the system discussed in this report also guarantees that we will be able to deal better in the future with any conflicts that we do not want in europe, but which we may have to deal with.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. we were faced with two bad options, either a shorter agreement with higher fishing quotas or a longer agreement with lower fishing quotas. unfortunately, there was no opportunity to vote to terminate the agreements. we moderates are against fisheries agreements with african states. the report contained very small improvements compared to the current agreements, but also deteriorations, such as the extension of the validity. in choosing between these bad options, we abstained.
in writing. - discrimination against roma is a serious problem that must be tackled in every member state in europe. every citizen of europe has the same rights, regardless of nationality, ethnic background, religious belief or gender. it is the foundation of the european union's success and development and a shared responsibility to uphold. this requires access to education and health care, and the right to respect for privacy and personal dignity. the current situation in italy with regard to roma is based on this perspective. the eu has a responsibility to ensure that the fundamental rights of people are respected in every country. however, it also requires that people, regardless of their origin, can be integrated into the society in which they live, with the requirements of equal treatment that this implies, designed without discrimination, on equal terms for all citizens. this is important in the fight against trafficking, prostitution and exclusion. neither adults nor children should be left out of this responsibility. it is against this background that we have not considered ourselves able to support any of the resolutions which parliament has dealt with today.
in writing. the swedish social democrats have abstained in the vote on the report by mr brok. in this explanation of vote we wish to make clear our position on future enlargement of the eu. we believe that the copenhagen criteria are the only requirements that can be imposed on candidate countries negotiating eu membership. we are in favour of further enlargement of the eu and consider this to be one of the major issues for the future of the union. we also believe that the negotiations with turkey must move forward and that it should be assessed on the same objective basis as the other candidate countries.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i believe that space should be used for peaceful purposes only. the report went too far.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a huge shift, but if we do not solve the crisis in georgia, we will need an even better asylum and refugee policy in europe. i should like to begin by thanking jean lambert for a very well-crafted report. i also support both the amendments by martine roure and roselyne lefrançois. the evaluation of the dublin system and the first choice of country for people coming to the eu really needs to be evaluated, especially the problems it may pose for the countries receiving refugees. i am thinking of the mediterranean countries, but also of sweden, which is the country that has taken in the largest number of iraqi refugees in europe. the eu should take greater joint responsibility, otherwise the dublin regulation will be meaningless. a year ago the libe committee went on an evaluation tour around the mediterranean. it was horrible! nor did it improve when sweden began to send back refugees and asylum seekers to greece, which was already very heavily burdened. the conservative group in the european parliament then adopted a directive on return which contained inhumane rules, such as expulsion after up to 18 months of waiting, which particularly hit hard at children. a common european asylum and refugee policy is necessary, but i feel that it is going in the wrong direction and i am worried about that. i'm worried that we're not accepting and are not prepared to take more into account the children. but there is one thing we have taken into account, and that was that commissioner barrot, who spoke today about a temporary freeze. as a swede, i want to highlight södertälje municipality south of stockholm. södertälje has taken in more refugees from iraq than the entire united states and canada combined! i believe that södertälje must be part of such an attempt as the commissioner mentioned. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. during this session we will debate the renewed social agenda, the millennium development goals and much more. in a few hours, we're voting on cultural programs, organic labeling, demands for tax harmonization. above all, the union should stay away from these issues. this concentration of political power means that the distance between the rulers and the ruled grows. the indignation of the citizens is rising. the establishment is forced to resort to increasingly harsh measures to override the will of the people. it would be much better to draw up a report on what we mean by the concept of subsidiarity and to have a thorough debate on this. we should do that before we try to centrally regulate the behaviour of the parties to the labour market in 27 very different countries. in my own country there is great anger at the fact that the eu and its judges can take the liberty of mandating a different order in the labour market than that which has developed under considerable national consensus over the last 70 years.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i apologize for my late arrival. i had a meeting in sweden late last night and i just got here. i do not know what has been discussed before, but let me start by saying that we welcome the social package. we think it is a little late and could have come earlier in the period, but at least it is here now. it is clear that the ambitions of parliament are somewhat greater than those of the package, but i would nevertheless like to highlight three positive points on which we can work. i myself work a lot with the judges of the court of justice and their consequences. i welcome the more open attitude now in the commission, for example the forum that is now to be held. i hope it's going to be okay. another positive thing is the ilo convention, which is also linked to the judgments of the ec court of justice, i.e. that the member states are invited to sign the ilo convention. thirdly, the programme for social integration which will be presented in october and the fight against poverty, exclusion and other problems. i hope we can work well together on these issues. they are vitally important.
in writing. - culture is about fundamental long-term issues for countries and civilizations. the junilists therefore believe that cultural policy should be managed by politicians close to the citizens and should therefore be mainly managed at national level. we believe that cultural programmes in the eu budget have been given too generous funding for an activity which should be the responsibility of the member states. we are generally in favour of more resources for culture, but against more resources being allocated by eu bodies that are far from the citizens. in the vote on today's four batzeli reports, we had to take a position only on amendments of a more technical nature concerning the structure of the implementation of the programmes. we have chosen to vote against these reports to show that we are opposed to such a large cultural effort being undertaken at eu level.
in writing. - the demand for organically produced food and other goods is large and growing, and to meet this demand, consumers must of course be able to identify them on the market. the labelling is therefore necessary for the functioning of the market in this respect. however, we have already voted against the eu labelling of organic products, because we are convinced that market forces, with conscious european consumers at the forefront, can do the job themselves. if policy regulation on the labelling of organic products is required, it should be done at national level. however, the only question we had to vote on this report was whether to delay the mandatory use of the eu logo on organic products. we have voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the draft budget for the financial year 2000 in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 104c of the treaty. we are in favour of a comprehensive review of the eu's fisheries agreements and see this as a positive first step which gives us greater opportunities to influence. we take scientific reports that the oceans are being fished out very seriously. we therefore also do not see eu fisheries agreements as a long-term sustainable way of fighting poverty and supporting development. we want to change the eu's fisheries policy so that it leads to the rebuilding of fish stocks. we also want to support sustainable development in those countries where fisheries agreements with the eu are currently a major source of income, through changes in eu trade and aid policies and various forms of partnership.
in writing. - i am opposed to including religion, sexuality, political conviction etc. as relevant data to be sent as information between authorities, but this report only mentions this in the context of influence peddling and as an attempt to tighten up existing legislation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the amendments focus on the enhanced protection of individuals and thus aim to improve the existing regulatory framework. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. − this own-initiative report highlights fisheries and aquaculture in the context of integrated coastal zone management in europe. the ecologically sustainable management of water and fisheries resources is of course important to protect our habitat. unfortunately, the report ignores the problems facing the eu fisheries sector. that is why we have decided to abstain. overcapacity in fishing fleets across the eu leads to an excessive amount of fish being taken. this threatens marine ecosystems and the supply of food fish. we want to see a strong reduction in fishing vessels and fishing quotas, based on biological safety and scientific principles. of course, workers affected by restructuring must be offered labour market training and reasonable financial support to enable them to take up jobs in other parts of the economy that need labour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of jean lambert's own-initiative report (a6-0287/2008) on the dublin system, even though it contains positions that i do not share. the reason i voted yes is that i share the strong criticism in the report of how the current eu rules undermine the rights of asylum seekers, for example by transferring asylum seekers to member states that cannot guarantee full and fair treatment. i am, however, against full harmonisation of the eu's asylum policy.
in writing. - this own-initiative report focuses on possible improvements and strengthening of the protection of asylum seekers, but i disagree with the report's claim that a common asylum policy would solve this problem. i am voting in favour of this report because it is overwhelmingly positive for asylum seekers and that is the focus of the report.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report today which clearly and critically points out the weaknesses of the current dublin system. there is no doubt that we need a common migration and asylum policy at eu level in an increasingly borderless europe. the question is how to achieve it. the people's party shares much of the criticism and considers it justified to send a strong signal that a change in a more humanitarian direction should be initiated. that is why i voted yes, with some reservations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i thought that this criticism should be maintained, not least because sweden is one of the countries which has historically been guilty of this very thing. however, i do not share the communist group's proposal to ban the use of detention altogether, although i believe that it should be applied only as a last resort. i voted against amendment no 6, which was about introducing 'an active obligation for organisations such as the red cross and the red crescent to trace relatives'. such an obligation can only be imposed on an authority and should not be imposed on a civil organisation. since neither the original text nor the amendment expressed any other wish, i abstained.
in writing. − tax fraud causes major economic losses for member states and reduces the ability to maintain and develop the quality of the public services we jointly finance through the tax bill. however, we abstained in the final vote because of several amendments which see tax competition between member states as a positive thing and downplay the harmful effects of tax havens on the economies of the member states. we also voted against the wording of the second part of paragraph 3, which gives a very positive picture of tax harmonization between member states.
in writing. - the fight against tax fraud is certainly worth all the support. we have therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in its entirety, despite the fact that it contains several unintended and unjustified elements. paragraph 3 states that 'for a vat system based on the 'principle of origin' to work in practice, taxes between countries must be harmonised in order to avoid tax competition'. we do not want to support such a writing. the harmonization of vat and tax systems between member states is a very dangerous step away from national self-determination in one of the most fundamental areas of policy. the european parliament should not be making such a sweeping statement on such an important issue. tax competition also has advantages in that it allows countries to take the lead and develop more efficient taxes or other solutions to finance public expenditure if they are free from unthinking eu rules.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − madam president, europe’s ability to be the leader in the field of telecoms and mobile internet is dependent on our ability to open up to new innovations and new services. from that perspective, it would be dangerous to try and defend old structures and old players. we need to open up, and that is why it is so important to use the digital dividend in a way that frees up the whole of the spectrum for new services and new opportunities, while at the same time defending old broadcasters and their services of today. the possibility of developing different services in all parts of the spectrum must be freed up. where infrastructure competition is not there already, we must ensure that there is real competition via a functional separation.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i hope that many of our citizens will follow this debate and engage before the vote because there are so many changes, including in the area of internet services. for the european united left, we would like to highlight three areas in particular: firstly, the gue/ngl group is opposed to the proposal to establish a new european authority in this area. it's gonna be more expensive and more complicated. there is no need to set up another european authority. secondly, greater emphasis must be placed on geographical differences and different infrastructures in the electronic services sector. we must be clearer that the access to consumers must be equal so that no more gaps are built into our societies. there should be no difference in access to electronic services between those living in larger cities and economically stronger regions and those living in economically weak regions and slums. when such important infrastructure investments are not to be taken over by the public sector but by private actors, the risk is obvious that not all citizens will have equal access to the same costs. thirdly, the left group is reacting to the large influence of various industrial lobby groups. the telecommunications proposals are not intended to affect copyright, but the lobbying industry in particular has been given a say in the proposal. the proposals of the lobby groups, which were accepted by all groups except the european united left - the only group to vote against in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - open up possibilities for controlling downloads and free access to sites such as myspace and youtube. the amendments were introduced late and without any major debate among citizens about these major changes. in sweden, for example, we have had a very wide debate about file sharing. i work against decisions to ban file sharing at the national level and i also work at the eu level. the risk of decisions being taken at eu level is greater than at national level because the lobby groups have had a great deal of influence and influence in the eu system and because many citizens lack sufficient information when we discuss issues at eu level. i hope for a strong citizen opinion to guarantee the right to freedom of expression and access to internet services!
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. my other name is sisyphus. i am elected by 15 per cent of the swedish people to oppose here in the european parliament the eu's continuing to move into new areas and thus continue to centralise and bureaucratise european society. this is a sisyphus work. telecommunications is one of the areas where the eu has an important role to play and i welcome the proposal for a telecommunications package which deals with improved competition and enhanced privacy protection, but it seems inevitable that we will also have centralisation and bureaucratisation. there are two elements in particular which i am opposed to. first, it is proposed that spectrum released by digitisation should be allocated in accordance with eu rules. secondly, a new european electronic communications authority is proposed. i call on the house to reject both of these motions. the free spectrum will be allocated by the member states and the natural solution is to develop the existing bodies of european telecommunications regulators.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report and i fully support it. i would also like to support the amendments tabled by my colleague, mr ilda figueiredo, on the labour market. i have only one minute to speak now, so i will not raise any specific political issues. i just want to make one point that i think is worth mentioning. the rapporteur mentions various measures that need to be taken for gender equality. when she does, it's a grand total of 45 points. i repeat, 45 points! in the eu and its member states, which have long said that equal rights for men and women are a priority, this report identifies 45 different areas that need to change. i have nothing to add except that i am in favour of the report and, above all, of concrete action now!
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank my colleagues on the femm committee, and in particular the shadow rapporteur, for their very constructive and good contribution to the report. the presidency of the council has highlighted the importance of combating gender stereotypes. it is one of the six priority areas of the presidency. i therefore believe it is important that we in this parliament also give our views on the problems of gender stereotypes and how they affect equality. in order to avoid any misunderstanding, i would like to stress and be very clear that in this report i am definitely not proposing any new legislation in this area, either at eu or national level. the measures i propose concern national self-regulatory bodies which already exist and which represent producers, advertisers and consumers. these bodies should work to raise awareness of the importance of gender stereotyped advertising. member states should also ensure that there are bodies to which the public can address complaints. i also think that the gender equality institute should conduct research on the impact of this type of advertising on gender equality. we need to know more. why is this important? because advertising is everywhere, in our homes, in public spaces, in newspapers, in the media, and so on. of course, whether we are aware of it or not, we are affected. companies wouldn't spend billions on advertising if it didn't have an impact. advertising and marketing today are not just about trying to sell a product or a product, but about selling a whole way of life, a form of culture. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations, in particular the future of the union's external relations, and on the future of the union's external relations. i want all people to have the ability to choose without being consciously or unconsciously influenced by various gender stereotypical norms. today, it is impossible for an advertiser to advertise a product that would increase environmental problems or accelerate climate change. i have a vision that in the future it will be equally impossible to sell products that have a gender-discriminatory or gender-stereotyped message. i am also convinced that with increased awareness of the importance of advertising, consumers, both men and women, will refuse to buy products with such advertising. i am equally convinced that consumers will favour companies, producers, which have a conscious advertising policy and which do not allow gender stereotyped advertising. it will be an important success factor for companies and advertisers who demonstrate their responsibility by influencing and contributing to greater gender equality. that's the goal we all say we have. this is one factor out of many, but it's a significant factor.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much for the debate! i would like to make one thing clear - the report comes from the european united left and nothing else. as regards the amendments, i would remind you that 53 amendments from the various political groups have been adopted in committee, including four from esther herranz garcía. freedom of speech has been mentioned. of course, freedom of speech is sacred. there is nothing in the report about any new legislation, either at eu level or in the member states. this is a national issue. what we are doing in the report is emphasizing the bodies that already exist, self-regulating and inter-party bodies where producers, advertisers and consumers together find the best forms. the commission says more basic research is needed on the impact of gender equality. i agree with that and that is why i am putting it in the report. we need more research. we need to wake up the critical thinking! that is precisely what the report is about! increase awareness and thus critical thinking!
for the verts/ale group. we talk a lot about taking action on climate change, but if we had taken a holistic view of the environment, we would have copied the un legislation here as well. so now we're going to remove the acute toxic category number five. and why do we do that? yes, for the bizarre reason that otherwise the number of substances to be classified and labelled would have increased. so the reason is not some kind of environmental or health logic. no, we do not want to copy category five because the number of substances would then have increased, although the point of the whole thing is that we would have a common global standard that would facilitate both trade and, in this case, also the environment and information to consumers. i fought to get us to reintroduce acute toxic category five, but unfortunately, it didn't work out. another thing we pushed and actually succeeded in getting through with the council was to stop the proposal to reduce the classification limit to 10 kg. i want to thank the council for standing up for themselves. the commission also made positive efforts. if the bill had passed, the reach would have been undermined. reach was about examining chemicals, seeing if they were dangerous and registering them. but reach only processes and registers the 30,000 most commonly used chemicals, the ones with the highest volume. the other 70,000 chemicals we use would be dealt with by this legislation. then it's very good that we kept it and that there was no lower limit to when to classify. if the bill had passed, reach wouldn't have had his complement in the ghs. i'm very glad that it didn't happen and that's why i can support this. i am also glad that we were able to stop unnecessary categorisation of animal tests, such as eye irritation tests. with these two victories in hand, i can vote for this report. i would like to emphasize that, now that we have not succeeded in bringing the very dangerous pbt chemicals and a priority list for investigation here and now, we have at least received a text saying that we should push this at the un level, that it should be included in the un system. now i really want to see the commission working hard to achieve that objective, because it is very important. otherwise, we have a completely failed chemicals policy. it is very important that these substances are now rapidly being brought through the un system because we failed to take the first step here. what happens to consumers? they are not as well informed as they could have been about the dangers of chemicals and that is a pity. but at least they are given a decent standard and basic protection against dangerous chemicals. so in the end, it was a compromise that no one is happy with, and maybe that's how it usually is.
for the gue/ngl group. those working in the chemical industry are particularly affected. according to a finnish study, some 32 million eu citizens are exposed to carcinogenic chemicals at their workplaces every day. it is our duty to ban the most dangerous chemicals and to take control of all chemicals. that was the purpose of the reach chemical law that we passed last year. we can discuss the outcome of reach. i thought to myself that the end result was watered down and broken down by industry, but now it's there anyway, the world's most comprehensive chemical law. the ghs, the global harmonised system for the classification and labelling of chemicals, is a continuation and complement to reach. the ghs aims to bring information on chemicals to workers and consumers. the aim is to classify and label the thousands of substances and mixtures that surround us. the ghs is actually a un convention that we are now going to implement at eu level. once the ghs has been passed unfortunately not until 2010 for substances and as late as 2015 for mixtures all chemicals will be easy to identify. it is about better information for the millions of workers who come into contact with chemicals every day, for consumers who should know what they are buying. the labelling will also lead to the strengthening of public health over law and for the environment. industry can look forward to more consistent legislation that will facilitate international trade. it is a great step forward and that is why we in the gue/ngl group support this compromise. but it's a pity we didn't make it all the way. chemicals that are toxic, persistent and bioaccumulative, so-called pbts, will not be labelled. instead, this compromise means that the issue of pbt will be raised at the un level. that's a serious breach of the agreement. why not make sure that pbt chemicals have the same status as all the others and are also labelled? now we can hope that other countries will press the issue of pbt chemicals. i also believe that this will be the case in the long term. nevertheless, this is a sensible compromise which will lead to millions of europeans, workers and consumers, being better informed about the tens of thousands of chemicals that are around us. for anyone suffering from cancer, allergies or skin diseases from chemicals, this is a big and important decision!
madam president, i would like to thank you. before i started working on environmental issues, i must admit that my knowledge of chemicals was relatively limited. however, the more i have learned, the more skeptical i have become about the use of such a large amount of chemicals in society today. for example, not long ago i read that the consumption of chemicals used for cleaning in ordinary households has increased dramatically in my home country of sweden. no one knows exactly how it affects our health. what we do know is that already today, in sweden alone, several children are forced to seek emergency care every year because they have ingested household chemicals that are acutely toxic, even though the chemicals today have a warning label that says that they are just that. this warning will now, through our decision later today, unfortunately disappear from many products. i have tried, together with some colleagues, to change this and to ensure that this marking of ordinary household products should be allowed to remain. that's not gonna happen this time. i deeply regret this, because it means that important consumer information is lost. nevertheless, i welcome the fact that the eu is now getting a harmonised classification, labelling and packaging legislation to complement reach and that it has been drawn up on the basis of the voluntary international system that already exists. it makes it easier for consumers and businesses alike. after we have taken this decision today, it is of the utmost importance that all the national authorities take their responsibility to ensure that information on the new labelling system is effectively communicated not only to businesses but also to a wide range of consumer groups. i would therefore like to ask the commission and mr verheugen to follow up on how and with what success this is actually happening so that we know whether consumers in europe understand what the label means from now on.
i would just like to respond to what my colleague graham booth said here that the environmental movement wants to protect people, but not animals. i think he's got this all wrong. it's about classification. the texts referred to by graham booth state that you cannot keep mixing a chemical mixture for classification purposes only to just get below a certain limit, that you cannot do a lot of animal testing to avoid labelling. it would lead to chemical mixtures containing dangerous substances of different kinds and therefore not exactly reaching the labelling limit. in these cases, the aim would be to carry out animal testing solely to avoid labelling. that's why we need these texts. here, animal health and human health go hand in hand. animal testing is avoided, but people are properly informed about the chemicals so that they can take concrete measures to protect themselves against them. graham booth has really misunderstood this!
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals. this can contribute to safer chemical handling, which is beneficial to the environment and health. however, we would have liked to see a labelling of chemicals in the so-called category five. these chemicals are commonly found in households and are a common cause of poisoning in children.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the junist position is that neither the european parliament nor any other eu institution should speak in such meetings, as foreign policy is to be conducted at national level, not by the european union. not surprisingly, the european parliament is taking the opportunity to advocate a strengthened common foreign and security policy and, even worse, the implementation of the lisbon treaty. we are already seeing how different member states have different views on the question of georgia. it is not desirable, therefore, for the eu to speak with one voice, since that voice must be able to speak against the positions of many member states. the frequent references to nato are also very problematic, since there are countries which are members of the eu but not of nato. the situation in georgia is very serious, not least in view of all the civilian casualties in the conflict. however, the eu is not to conduct foreign policy and that is why we have voted against this resolution.
in writing. - junilista believes that working time should be regulated at national level. this report should therefore not be dealt with in the european parliament, even though it is formally a commission's handling of an infringement case. the principle of subsidiarity, which is celebrated in every conceivable festive context, is fundamental here. when the majority of the european parliament goes into the details, it is the opposite, nothing can really be left in the member states. the working time directive is in itself a clear breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the structure of the economy differs between countries. some have heavy manufacturing, others have light industry, others have a lot of tourism and seasonal industries and the public sector is structured in different ways. it is therefore extremely inappropriate and unnecessary to try to regulate working hours for the whole of the eu. those who argue for this say that we will otherwise have problems of social dumping in the eu. this is a very serious accusation against the countries we have accepted as members of the eu, all of which meet the copenhagen criteria and are all states of law with the right to free association. this report is another attempt by the eu to intervene in the question of working time, which is the responsibility of the member states. we have voted against, citing the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - junilistan strongly rejects all forms of discrimination. the eu is a union of values and member states must treat all groups in society fairly and equally. however, the report contains a proposal which we strongly oppose, namely that the european parliament should call on the commission and the council to decide on a full transfer of competence to the community on issues such as immigration and asylum. these issues are to be dealt with by the respective member states. the report also contains many comments on how to achieve gender equality. the commission is proposing measures to combat discrimination in the labour market, information campaigns, public consultations, quotas, wage equalization, measures to combat occupational segregation in education and improvements to maternity leave for self-employed women. the report also welcomes the establishment of the european institute for gender equality and advocates that the eu institutions and member states should establish a specific international day for equal pay. gender equality must be an objective for all member states. however, the policy measures used to achieve the objectives are to be decided at national level. the international coordination that is desirable should be at global level, preferably within the un. we have therefore voted against this report.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the report on gender equality in 2008 was a good one. there were a number of important issues, not least the possibility for women (and men!) to combine work and family life and the importance of generous parental insurance. i could live with the fact that there was some hot air and repetition. what was more difficult was paragraph 4, which sought to create a legal basis at eu level for 'all forms of violence against women'. there is nothing wrong with ambition, and if it were about trafficking in human beings, which is transnational, there would be no problem. but here the call for a 'complete transfer of the political action programmes to community competence' in an area which is primarily a matter of national competence is more worrying. the reason why i finally abstained was the second sentence of paragraph 6 which calls for quotas. this is something i would not like to see at national level, and certainly not introduced as a dictate from brussels.
in writing. - the draft report contains a wide range of opinions and requests. we would like to stress, however, that the european parliament cannot solve any problems in this area and that legislation at eu level is not the right way to go either. finally, we believe that it is through the formation of public opinion and debate in the member states that advertisements and advertising of sexual services in the newspapers can be eliminated. threats of consumer boycotts can force newspapers to clean up their advertising and hotels to become porn-free. but it requires opinion to be built from below. not by action at eu level. we have voted yes to the report as a whole, after some agony, but i would like to stress that we are doing so because we consider many of the values and demands contained in it to be so urgent, but there is a difference of opinion on the way to achieve these objectives.
in writing. the report by eva-britt svensson created a lot of headaches before the vote. in its original form, the report was full of sweeping generalizations and - in my view - exaggerations. it was a mixed bag of media and advertising, codes of conduct and bills, self-censorship and new governance. the report that remained after the vote was, however, quite different. the worst excesses were gone, and a fairly reasonable problem remained that advertising is sometimes, though not always, caricatured and gender stereotyped. i do not think it is at all difficult to express concern both about the impression children and young girls make, and especially about pictures of extremely thin women. the report was not entirely free of socialist undertones, but the problem is real - not ideological. that's why i finally voted yes.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the un declaration on the millennium development goals truly deserves all the support of us rich europeans. it is both a tragedy and a scandal that so many in this world live in extreme poverty, that so many women die during pregnancy and childbirth, that so many newborns die in childbirth, that so many lack access to safe contraception and that so many are affected by hiv/aids and do not have access to stop-gap medicines. the reasons for these appalling conditions are not a lack of resources, technology, or medical knowledge. we know how to solve these problems. this is evident from the fact that many countries have long ago solved them. what is needed is to get poor countries to change their social institutions so that development in these areas is really possible. progress has also been made in some parts of poor countries, such as egypt and bangladesh. the un member states have committed themselves to these goals after careful analysis and in-depth political debate. but these are global issues and they belong at the un level. why do they appear here in the eu? global issues are to be dealt with at the global level, in the un, of which all eu countries are members. the eu is to deal with the issues that are common to its member states, i.e. cross-border issues within europe. the eu can and should do more to reduce poverty and therefore maternal mortality by abolishing its agricultural policy as soon as possible.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? trade in services has become a necessity for all economies today. it is impossible for any country to achieve economic success with an expensive and inefficient service infrastructure. i would therefore like to thank syed kamall very much for a good and important report. producers and exporters of textiles, tomatoes and other goods will not be competitive unless they have access to an efficient banking system, effective insurance companies, audit agencies, telecommunications and transport systems. the econ opinion emphasises that access to financial services such as microcredit, access to basic banking services and international bank transfers are essential for individuals in developing countries to be able to engage in economic activities and start businesses. the committee also stressed that the specific nature of the financial sector required well-balanced solutions in a globalised world. it is also something that commissioner peter mandelson himself was in favour of. if our negotiating partners, especially the developing countries, refuse to open up their services markets, their chances of economic development will be diminished. to those of you in this assembly who doubt, i say: look at how your own countries have developed! the development of trade in goods has gone hand in hand with the development of trade in services. to the boat, mr president, to all the citizens!
syed kamall calls for a far-reaching opening of the services markets of developing countries. unfortunately, this is entirely in line with the eu's current trade policy. kamall, for example, wants what is currently run by local businesses or the public sector in developing countries to be competed for by multinational european companies. this is a policy that has already been tried in europe. my home country sweden was one of the first countries to liberalise the markets for energy, electricity, trains and mail. today we see the result: higher prices, poorer maintenance, and often poorer service. a few monopoly firms can now reap unprecedented profits on what was formerly common property. is this a development model we should sell to the third world? - i know. thank god, there are countries that do things differently! norway, which is free from the eu, has withdrawn all gats requirements on the liberalisation of the services sectors of poor countries. norway has raised its voice against the laissez-faire policy pursued by the eu in the wto. it's hopeful. the eu should put the needs of poor countries first, rather than calling for deregulation and privatisation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when the port directive was being considered in 2006, junilista voted clearly against it. the reason why we oppose the directive is that europe's ports are already functioning well and are competitive also in an international perspective. the report we are now debating contains several elements which were already included in the port directive which we voted against. the report also contains many proposals which are both worrying and undesirable. for example, it is proposed that community-declared consignments should be exempted from customs controls. this is a major problem, especially when it comes to the smuggling of drugs, for example. it should be for each member state to decide whether or not to open a container. this is a report that reeks of unnecessary regulation, hidden protectionism and high costs for the taxpayer. that's why i'm urging you all to vote against it tomorrow.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i often say that the eu must be narrower but sharper, that is to say, we must focus our action while respecting subsidiarity. this strategy is exactly such an area. i would like to mention a few points that our rapporteur, frédérique ries, has dealt with in her report. her criticism of the lack of measurable targets and indicators is very heavy. we need to complete the strategy. the criticism by mr ries and several other members that there are not enough preventive measures is serious. it is directed at this material and we must take it into account in the work that follows. i would like to highlight three areas in particular: vulnerable groups, population diseases and the link between climate and health. we need to get much better at seeing the difference in treatment and medication of adults, children and women and men. it is scandalous that this is still not self-evident and has already been implemented in medical research and treatment! the work started on patient mobility in the internal market is of great importance for different groups of patients, such as neck injuries, where different standards of treatment exist in different member states. i welcome the french presidency's focus on alzheimer's, one of our major diseases, but we also need a united approach to diabetes, asthma and rheumatism, to name just a few. this also applies to occupational injuries. we are now witnessing a development in europe and the world with more pandemics and greater spread of viruses, bacteria and parasites in a way that we have not seen for a very long time. much of this, of course, is related to the climate effect. antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which cause drugs and treatments to fail, is one of our most pressing health problems. it is regrettable that the development of new antibiotics has largely stalled within the big pharmaceutical companies. i expect the presidency and the commission to tackle this very serious and major problem at once! we also need an analysis of the different scenarios for the climate effect. how would a two-degree, four-degree or even more global temperature increase affect health in europe? no such material exists today. if we are to make concrete and good decisions on the climate package, we also need solid material on the different climate scenarios we have to deal with in the future.
in writing. - advocating for human rights in our world is part of the union's political mission as a union of values. however, in the junist's view, this cannot be used to pursue foreign policy at eu level and thereby infringe on the foreign policy sovereignty of the member states. we therefore appreciate the eib's priority in lending to promote democratic development and stability in central asia, but we oppose a development which would make the eib an instrument for the eu's foreign policy endeavours. after careful consideration, we have voted in favour of the amendments proposed by the european parliament to the commission's proposal, even though some of the amendments do not quite align with this principled approach.
in writing. the situation for israel and palestine is complicated. for israel, dealing with the enormous uncertainty of its surroundings is a daunting task. as a warm friend of israel, i am well aware of this. however, it is always important to uphold international law. i therefore chose to take part in the negotiations on the european parliament's joint resolution on the situation of palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons. through these negotiations the final result was much more balanced, which led me to endorse the resolution. in my view, it is important not to condemn israel in the way that hélène flautre's report on eu sanctions in the field of human rights did, where the facts had not been studied. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - it is absolutely appalling that so much of the world's population lives in extreme poverty, that women in these countries and regions die during pregnancy or childbirth, and that so many lack both information and access to safe contraceptives. this is a matter of human dignity and inviolable universal human rights, not least for women living in poverty. this resolution contains positive - and necessary - proposals, but also addresses issues which are not within the eu's competence. we have chosen to support proposals calling for improved conditions for women, particularly in the area of sexual and reproductive health. however, the resolution also deals with matters which are partly of a foreign policy nature. we have therefore abstained from the final vote.
in writing. - trade in services has become a necessity for all economies today. it is impossible for any country to achieve economic success with an expensive and inefficient service infrastructure. producers and exporters of textiles, tomatoes and other goods will not be competitive without access to an efficient banking system, effective insurance companies, audit agencies, and telecommunications and transport systems. but the ability to provide public services in a private way is also crucial. competition also means that we get better services in areas such as health care, schools and public transport. i therefore chose to support the idea of not making a categorical distinction between services for private and public use, because i believe that competition also in the public sector contributes to better efficiency and service. i take this for granted, whether it is our internal market or trade in services in other countries, outside the eu.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to mr nyrup rasmussen and mr lehne for their important reports. as many have pointed out, they could not have been presented at a more opportune time. the impact of the us mortgage market over the past year has had major implications for the entire global market. bad loans have been packaged in batches and sent on. the short-term nature and the difficulty and complexity of many of the new market instruments have led to a more difficult and fast-moving market. in addition, excessive remuneration for company directors has seriously damaged confidence - i think we can agree on that. the world's financial inspectorates have also failed to strengthen their cooperation and competence to a sufficient degree. new instruments have been introduced, and there has been a lack of openness and transparency. the starting point should now be equal treatment of all financial market participants, i.e. the introduction of stricter capital requirements and regulations, also for hedge funds and private equity. in the area of supervision, the debate has touched on the need for new authorities, many of whom - as i saw today, gordon brown - have been pushing for a common european, even a global, financial supervision. i think there is reason to reflect on this, given the still different nature of the markets. it's the american way. however, markets are globally interconnected. our committee also said that the existing committees for cooperation in financial, banking and insurance matters within europe should be substantially strengthened. there is much to be done here - and globally. achieving transparency and clearer supervision is necessary to restore confidence in the financial markets. i think there is complete agreement on this too. the market economy must have clear rules and game rules. as a liberal, i have no difficulty arguing for clearer rules and more effective legislation. however, we should beware of introducing laws and regulations that do not solve today's problems and that do not take into account the importance of a global financial market. the global availability of capital is driving growth and creating new jobs, let us not forget that. europe needs an open and efficient financial market which also allows for self-regulation and self-reorganisation. the challenge is not to lock up our systems by over-regulation so that we can neither cope with growth nor with new crises. this week, the financial world was gripped by panic. do not let this panic dictate the legislation, at least not in this house.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the financial crisis is shining a frightening light on hedge funds and private equity right now. as well as other financial innovations such as structured investment vehicles, conduits and money market funds. they've all been invented precisely to avoid the capital subscription and transparency requirements that we place on banks. there is a lot of money to be made in borrowing short-term liquidity, investing heavily in illiquid assets and investing with minimal equity, but it is a dangerous business. both liquidity and solvency can seemingly disappear quickly. hence these strict international banking regulations. now the international system outside the banking sector is collapsing. hedge funds and private equity are next. they have very little equity, they're highly leveraged. private equity contains huge amounts of leveraged buyouts, lbos, that have been conducted with almost no equity. we are not going to be able to do that. i don't think it was.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on culture and education seems to suffer from employment problems and in its eagerness to find issues to address it writes reports that the world would have done without. the report on media concentration and diversity in the eu is one such example. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. there are many objections to such an idea, both in terms of feasibility but also, and more importantly, its possible implications for freedom of expression. the draft report has certainly been modified during the committee procedure, but it still contains a lot of unnecessary and harmful information.
in writing. – the report concerns an important subject, media diversity, which is an important element in safeguarding democracy and the right of citizens to have access to reliable and independent media. countries where economic, religious or political interests control the media have difficulties offering their citizens a variety of means of gathering information, which creates large gaps in their ability to absorb information and guarantee free and impartial elections. now we in the european parliament are voting on a report concerning these important issues. we swedish social democrats had really hoped to be able to vote for this report. but as it stands today, we will not do this. there is great purpose in the compromise proposal reached, but there remain several ambiguities, mainly around issues that affect web-blogger status. we do not want to contribute to the european parliament equating web-blogging with traditional media by questioning and proposing discussions on web-blogs status, as proposed. this is not required for other groups, so why the web-bloggers? however, we share the view, with many web-bloggers, that violations and slander are equally punishable on web-blogs as in other media. therefore, we will vote against this report.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i am very pleased to note that great progress has been made since we voted our internal market report in committee. the new scoreboard presented in july showed that member states had achieved their best ever record in transposing internal market rules into national law. the target of 1% average transposition deficit set by the heads of state or government has been achieved and we have a winner with 0% delayed transposition, bulgaria. chapeau, take off your hat! let us hope that this positive trend will continue and that our citizens will be allowed to take full advantage of our single market in the future. we must place greater emphasis on proper implementation. in our report we call on members of the european parliament and the commission to include new and refined tools and more and deeper parameters to give citizens the means to measure and recover from the losses suffered by them and the business community because member states do not always do what they are supposed to do in time or in the right way. in particular, we must develop the control and the implementation of the measures, and do so in direct connection with national implementation. this is a win-win situation for all concerned, since it avoids legal proceedings. we must find ways to avoid, in the first place, and to speed up the process of infringement, in the second place. implementation groups and networks can avoid differences in implementation and unnecessary gold plating. a well-functioning solvit and sectoral reviews by the commission can detect remaining problems at an early stage. solvit should and will become an increasingly powerful instrument. one of the major issues in the debate here in parliament has been the relationship with the consumer scoreboard. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that we should not rush into any decision just yet. as we have seen, the single market scoreboard is acting as a lever and there is still a great deal of scope for development. further, it is appropriate to let the two grow separately, each developing its own qualities. then we'll have to look more closely at the value of probably, possibly, merging them. the consumer scoreboard is still a very immature product, while the internal market responsiveness is already very important for harmonised ec legislation. despite its power in this respect, the member states are very positive about it. in other words, it is a very effective instrument which we should preserve but which we may also transfer to other areas in the future. i will also mention the areas which are the most difficult. the environmental, tax, customs, energy and transport sectors are the worst affected. here i think we should try new models and perhaps pick up the services directive model, the implementation of it, in other words very close cooperation with the commission. i recommend that. i hope that there will be more opportunities to discuss this very important subject in the future, at annual internal market forums, enhanced networking, administrative cooperation, perhaps a new internal market council in the council, i would appreciate that. a periodic update is a method that helps to develop this area. i should like to thank all those who have been involved in this matter, because i am convinced that what we have done lays the foundations for future eu cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mrs lefrançois proposes important changes to protect privacy, freedom of expression and the rule of law. the criminal offense is incitement, not incitement to commit a terrorist act. the protection of privacy will also apply to e-mail and other electronic correspondence and the fundamental principles of all our legislation will be highlighted: proportionality, necessity and non-discrimination. that's great. but, because there's a big "but": where did the subsidiarity issue go? what kind of terrorism should be dealt with at eu level? in spain, a heinous terrorist attack took place last weekend and we all know the spanish people, but this crime is not an eu issue. nor was the terrorism that had been going on for decades in northern ireland. it is clear that the fear of terrorism is being used deliberately to advance the eu's positions in the judicial and police fields at the expense of the member states. the issue of subsidiarity is alive in the party talk but not in the legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work which has substantially improved the commission's proposal. i have had difficulty in the past in supporting reports on terrorism, even though i seriously consider terrorism to be one of the most important tests of the credibility of our union and its capacity for solidarity and joint responsibility. with all due respect to those colleagues who come from member states suffering from the terrorism frenzy, i would say that our first responsibility is to ensure that democracy is never defended by undemocratic means. the rule of law must be upheld, as must respect for the privacy of citizens. the commission's lazy writings on the criminalisation of public solicitation, like other proposals to introduce the excuse of terrorism, are sufficiently broad and open to interpretation to risk seriously undermining the aim of the legislation, which is to achieve a common level of protection within the union. the fight against terrorism must be fought jointly, but with respect for the various legal traditions and conditions of the union and, above all, with respect for democratic traditions and values.
in writing. - we have previously criticised the different campaigns for the 'european year' for things like intercultural dialogue and for creativity and innovation. these 'european years' place a burden on the eu budget and thus on taxpayers, while having little impact on reality. if there is a demand for 'european years', they should be financed through private sponsorship and not by taxpayers. we have therefore voted against the report before us, even though it only dealt with minor amendments to the commission's proposal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. extreme poverty and hunger, infant mortality, poor maternal health, hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases, and the lack of universal basic education for all are just some of the challenges that deserve attention and recognition from all countries of the world. in line with the junistans' position, the report notes that these challenges require international coordination in several cases. however, junilista believes that this type of cooperation should be carried out through organisations with broad international legitimacy and long experience, such as the un, and not through the eu. the junilists are opposed to the report's explicit call for direct control of bilateral aid by individual eu countries. aid is and will remain a national concern. that is why the junilista has voted against the report.
in writing. - we have voted against this report in the final vote. this is a matter of the utmost importance - so important that it must be maintained as a political responsibility of the member states or their subordinate levels. the member states shall have sole responsibility for the organisation of teaching and the content of education systems. here again we see an example of how the european parliament's committee on culture and education wants to go into an area which today does not fall within the union's responsibility but which it is desired that the union should intervene in for the good of all of us. this own-initiative report is a waste of taxpayers' money which the european parliament should not be concerned with.
in writing. − this own-initiative report by the european parliament's committee on culture and education goes beyond its usual remit and brings new ideas on how the eu should become more involved in the field of education. this is an area which is now the responsibility of the member states, and we believe that it should remain so. the report proposes, among other things, the creation of a common student id card in the eu. we find it difficult to believe that these proposals in themselves increase student mobility, but rather increase the bureaucracy surrounding student activities. the rapporteur also states in his explanatory statement that there is a need for a legal framework at eu level for students. these proposals circumvent the eu's agreed policy responsibilities at different levels for different policy areas. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − hedge funds and private equity are examples of investment instruments that are associated with high risk. the confidence of investors, the public and, in particular, regulators requires that the activities are subject to both transparency and adequate regulation. the junilista group welcomes several of the writings and proposals for action set out in the report. we have nevertheless voted against the report as a whole. we have done so because the report advocates action at eu level, even though it should be clear to all of us by now that solutions to the potential risks associated with, among other things, hedge funds and private equity should be sought primarily at global level.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the report by rasmussen on hedge funds and private equity has been watered down following the compromise negotiations between the three largest groups in parliament. it is also regrettable that the amendments tabled by the greens and the gue/ngl group, which were taken directly from the rasmussen draft report, were not adopted during the plenary vote. for example, one of the paragraphs which has been weakened from the original draft emphasised the need for enhanced appropriate levels of transparency towards the public, investors and supervisory authorities, including, in the future, any new eu supervisory body. in spite of this, we decided to support the report in the final vote. this is due to the urgent need and necessity to counteract harmful financial speculation and instability in the markets. in this respect, the report could be seen as a step in the right direction.
in writing. the european parliament's role in the eu system is to be the voice of the citizens. this voice is strengthened not least by the work of the committee on petitions, which takes up issues raised by citizens' initiatives. a good example is the 'one seat' campaign to move the seat of the european parliament from strasbourg to brussels, which has been brought up for formal discussion by this committee. it is true that some of the calls to the member states are sometimes far-reaching and some of the proposals are not the most well thought-out. however, the work of the committee on petitions is a crucial part of the eu's work for citizens, which was crucial for me in supporting this report.
in writing. - transparency is crucial if we are to restore confidence in the financial markets. the last few months have shown the problems that a complex and fast-moving market will bring if it is not given the opportunity to understand and follow even sophisticated products. there have been problems in the otc market, but transparency must also exist in other parts of the financial market. i therefore decided to abstain on this broad issue, as the amendments which would have widened the report in a necessary way were not adopted.
in writing. − the swedish freedom of the press act represents fundamental values in swedish society. we cannot accept that laws to combat terrorism are contrary to the swedish constitution. there are many other ways and opportunities to achieve the same goal. the proposals we have adopted today do not contain any clear possibility of derogations in order to maintain our swedish legislation. we support the proposals for improvement put forward by the european parliament, but cannot support the proposal as a whole. however, since an agreement in line with the swedish constitution is clear in the council, we choose to abstain rather than vote against the report.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals for the future. the reason for this is that we believe that the european parliament should be able to decide its own seat. we also believe that, in view of our climate and our environment, and for economic reasons, the european parliament should have its seat in brussels only.
in writing. - this report is a report on the activities of the committee on petitions of the european parliament. but since this report refers to, welcomes and expresses hope in several of its considerations that the treaty of lisbon will soon be ratified, we have chosen to vote against the report as a whole. we consider the lisbon treaty to be rejected in principle, since the citizens of a member state have voted against it in a referendum. in addition, there are still more member states where a majority of the voters would certainly have voted against the lisbon treaty if they had been given the chance. we cannot support the ignorance of the european parliament's committee on petitions in the report. as regards the question of a single seat for the european parliament, we believe that, in principle, it is up to the member states to decide jointly on the seat of the european parliament, but we also believe that it is reasonable for the european parliament to have a say on the matter.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of foodstuffs. while we welcome a comprehensive strategy for mountain regions, increased support for the dairy sector is not the way to go. if the objective is to reduce the cap's share of the eu's total budget, transfers from the first pillar to the second are also not appropriate.
in writing. the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament wants to promote all the special interests that come its way in this sector. if special measures are needed for farmers in mountain regions, the question is whether measures and agreements need not be concluded to protect norrland's agriculture. we are strongly opposed to this report on grounds of principle. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the subject we are debating is of far greater importance than other subjects which are usually discussed in this house. we are talking about something as fundamental as the movement of people within the so-called schengen area. there is no doubt that this system makes travel easier for many individuals, but the downside of the system must be said to outweigh the positive aspects. i am referring to the fact that schengen also leads to the restriction of the mobility of a huge number of people by social systems. schengen is another step towards creating a superstate, a fortress europe. the creation of a control society of enormous proportions. i don't want any part of this. there is certainly no doubt that crossborder crime is one of the biggest problems we face today. cross-border solutions are therefore needed. however, i do not think that schengen, or the eu for that matter, is the right forum for this purpose. today, interpol already exists, a remarkable and well-functioning international police agency in which sovereign states from all over the world participate. instead of building parallel systems, more should be done to strengthen interpol. as we know, crime is not confined to our continent but is made up of worldwide networks. these were some general comments, now to the more specific ones. one aspect which i think is being treated far too lightly in the schengen information system is the issue of privacy. the personal data to be processed and stored are of a very sensitive nature. one of the most important tasks of a state is to be able to provide its citizens with full protection against unauthorised access to personal data. i therefore regard this as a national concern because it is my firm opinion that the eu cannot under any circumstances provide the necessary protection of personal data. i also believe that it is unnecessary and costly to build new structures. after all, it is tax money that is going to finance this system. i have long held the view that the development of the european union, or integration as some people choose to call it, can be likened to the tyranny of small steps. scary as it may seem, the steps aren't so small anymore. instead, it is a matter of taking large, determined and gradual steps towards the creation of a european union state. no true european should accept this.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the destruction of tropical forests continues unabated. 13 million acres of forest each year, or a football field every two seconds, that's how much forest is cleared every year in the world. this is despite the fact that the first hourly agreement was concluded 20 years ago. in 2006, the international tropical timber agreement was signed. although the agreement itself is comprehensive and leaves much to be desired, it is at least a tool we have to deal with the problem. caroline lucas has taken this up and with her much needed amendments we will have better opportunities to protect tropical forests. i have a question directly to the commission. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. when will this legislation on illegal logging come? is it true that the commission voted on this in may of this year? then why haven't we seen anything? you did not mention that in your speech, so we in parliament want to know. what about the bill? tell us about it. otherwise, i'd like to thank lucas for also problematizing the whole idea of trading in timber. is it really reasonable to cut down so much forest and then export it? my own country sweden is the most forested country in the eu. at the same time, we import one sixth of all the timber we consume. why would you do that? well, of course, because it's very cheap to buy timber on the world market. lucas wants to do something about this and calls for the eu to support countries that adopt strategies to protect their tropical forests. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial policy' to cover all aspects of the common agricultural policy. it is in this way that international trade should be used as a tool to promote sustainability and development worldwide. another dimension of deforestation that is under-debated is the meat industry. much of the meat and feed consumed in the world comes from former forest land. meat production is one of the main causes of the deforestation of the amazon. the chairman of the un's climate panel, rajendra pachauri, recently called for a reduction in meat consumption. he is quite right, so here is another question for the commission: when will there be a strategy for reducing meat consumption? as i said earlier, lucas is also right on most of the points in this report. that is why the left group supports this excellent report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. i shall concentrate on the social europe. when the social agenda came, we said it was too little, too late. looking at the commission's work programme and the joint resolution, we see that employment and social issues are not given much priority. it is a priority for the people, but not a priority for the commission. it doesn't meet the demands of the humans. in our resolution from the social democrats we raise a number of questions. a pipeline of people in atypical jobs, a growing group, and that those in atypical jobs should be given proper protection. those who are subject to and affected by unjustified dismissal. there must be minimum standards for this in the common labour market. we must also look at the globalisation fund and see if we can create even better conditions for those who are unemployed because of restructuring so that they can get into training and get new jobs. we have some proposals on the subject of working conditions. finally, i would like to raise the issue that was raised in the committee on employment on monday. because of the judgments of the european court of justice, people are now extremely afraid that there will be social dumping within the eu, that it will be politics. we succeeded in proposing that the posting directive be opened up to guarantee equal treatment and that we must make clear in primary law that fundamental rights such as the right to strike are not subordinate to freedom of movement. i hope the commission will now take this up. it is good that you are organising forums, but you must also put forward concrete proposals to prevent social dumping and to provide workers with fair wages and working conditions.
mr president, 2009 will be, to put it mildly, a crucial year for achieving the goals of the lisbon process. there are four matters that i would like to raise here today. the first one is the need to make real progress on the process of better regulation, where we all agree that we should reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012, and i think it would be appropriate for the commission to demonstrate here in parliament, year by year, that it is moving ahead in really making better regulation. the second thing is research and innovation. the budget review is coming to an end, and it is crucial and of strategic importance that we now ensure that we can move ahead and put europe in the forefront of research and innovation by contributing the proper financing. the third thing is mobility of workers. that is one of the more dynamic aspects of the european union where we have seen enormously good achievements that are contributing not only to the economy of europe but also to individuals all over europe. it is important not only that we do not make it more difficult – that we defend opportunities – but also that we make it easier also by discussing and reforming education in the framework of the bologna process, making mobility a reality to even more people. finally, 2009 will be an important year to take action on energy policy, where we currently have a number of legislative items going forward. there is legislation on the energy markets (which still has to be completed), on renewables, on effort sharing and on emission trading. now it is also time to ensure that we can finalise this process and implement it in reality so that we have a good basis, not only for 2010 but for the further future, for being the best knowledge economy in the world.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the transport sector. the committee on transport has decided to incorporate into this directive, as part of its second reading, large parts of the draft directive on flag state obligations which was rejected by the council. the flag state obligations directive is an attempt to extend the eu's competence in an area where un rules already exist. we voted against this extension at the first reading in march 2007, and therefore we do not support this attempt to introduce these rules in the back of the house as part of the directive on ship inspection organisations. that is why we have voted against the report by mr de grandes pascual.
in writing. i have to admit, the telecoms package is one of the most difficult pieces of legislation i've seen since i've been here. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. i took a line which assumed that the internet could not be completely unregulated, but that the rules of the legal community must at the same time be fully applied. i cannot accept the privatisation of the judiciary, which would be the consequence of allowing individual companies to go in and censor content online before users have a say. if transparency is to be considered a guiding principle, filtering is deeply problematic. while it must be clear that surveillance of civilian internet users must never be allowed for commercial reasons, i certainly do not want to be involved in legislation that would, for example, prevent the police from tracing child pornography or otherwise risk endangering the safety of citizens. it was important not to contribute to a european legal framework which would impede technological development and limit the democratic, social and professional conditions and possibilities of the network. finally, i felt that there were sufficient safeguards in place to be able to vote in favour of the otherwise important liberalisation of the telecommunications market.
in writing. − illegal logging and deforestation cause serious damage to the environment and everyone agrees that the felling of sensitive tropical forests must be reduced. the junilista group therefore welcomes the development of codes of conduct for the import of tropical timber by individual states. in addition, we welcome labelling initiatives, such as those through the forest stewardship council, which provide consumers with increased opportunities to make informed and evidence-based decisions when purchasing timber or timber products. unfortunately, the main feature of this report is a clear desire to promote the positions of the european parliament on forestry policy in general. the junilists are of the firm opinion that a common forestry policy within the framework of eu cooperation is not desirable. instead, responsibility for matters concerning or related to the forestry policy of individual member states should remain at national level. the junilista has voted against the report on the basis of these views.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have every reason to react to unreasonable compensation and bonus systems. i think everyone does and fully understands that, but i would still say after listening to this debate that loud rhetoric, political rhetoric, is ill-suited to solving global financial crises. you can't sound like you're throwing the baby out with the bathwater and creating the panic that was in the financial markets last week. it's not supposed to be in this house. we're going to be reasonable, we're going to be reasonable. it's the responsibility we've been given by our constituents. we must have a balanced approach, we must create good and effective rules and laws that allow room for growth and self-regulation, my friends. i am concerned when i listen to this loud rhetoric and i am anxious and afraid that this will create an overregulated financial society which will not provide the opportunity for the growth power we so badly need. it is the power of growth and the opportunity to create more jobs that our voters are looking for.
sometimes a question flies away, and this is perhaps a bit obsolete, i must admit, but i thank the commission for giving such a fair answer. my appeal, and my worry, is that we are over-reacting, and i hope the commission could consider that. i agree that we should act and react, but we should not overdo it, because we need a balanced approach. otherwise – and i think that is something we should consider in the long term – we could harm growth in europe. so, i think, a balanced approach; and i rely on the commission to ensure these measures are implemented in an appropriate way.
for the gue/ngl group. one third of europeans are overweight or obese. a considerable part of the health budgets of the member states must be devoted to combating the problems of overweight. in addition, the problem of overweight is socially and economically unfair. low-income people are hit hardest when they consume more sugar and saturated fats. worse food, simply put. it is, of course, the task of policy to create the best possible conditions for people to eat more healthily. that is precisely what the rapporteur, mr foglietta, is doing in this report. that's why he has the support of the left. the report calls for the eu to be more flexible in allowing member states to have lower vat rates for healthy food and higher rates for what we should be eating less of. this is an important demand which i hope will be heeded by the eu leadership. what does the commission have to say about this? can the commission come back with a revision of the eu vat directive to allow more flexibility for member states to have lower vat on healthy food, for example? another question for the commission concerns trans fats. we know that trans fats are bad for your health. this has been confirmed by the authorities of the member states, as well as by the eu's own food safety authority, efsa. commissioner androulla vassiliou said in the committee on the environment on 1 april this year during a hearing, and i quote: trans fat is definitely not good for health, there is no doubt about that. in this report we call for a ban on trans fats, but the commission refuses to propose this. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission now has the chance to withdraw from this unhealthy position. when are we going to ban trans fats? can the commission at least guarantee that member states are free to ban trans fats if they so wish? meat is another dimension of the public health problem, as the previous speaker, mr buitenweg, pointed out. meat consumption is increasing like an avalanche around the world. if nothing is done now, warns the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, meat consumption, already high, will double by 2050. meat contains saturated fats and contributes to obesity. in addition, the meat industry is greatly exacerbating climate change. the eu should phase out subsidies to the meat industry, but in the 2007 budget alone, over €45 million was earmarked for pure marketing money for the meat industry. it is counterproductive and, moreover, a bizarre waste of taxpayers' money. a phasing out of these meat subsidies and a strategy to reduce meat consumption should be self-evident measures for better health in the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as many have said, this is an important issue that we are discussing here today. it is a very important issue where we can learn from each other, from the member states, but it is also very important that we respect the principle of subsidiarity when we discuss this issue. there is much that the eu can do to reduce the problem of obesity and that we should focus on here in parliament. advertising and consumer information are areas which we actually decide about here in parliament and which should be our focus. i think we have failed partly there. for example, we have failed to prohibit advertising directed at children, a group who cannot distinguish between advertising and the facts presented to them and who are therefore, by definition, misleading to these very consumers. much of the advertising directed at children is about foods that are high in fat, salt, or sugar. a ban on advertising to children would be effective in reducing the obesity problem in europe. the second thing i wanted to talk about is trans fats. i am very pleased that tomorrow we may be able to call on the commission to propose a ban on trans fats. the most common argument against such a ban is that saturated fats are actually the biggest public health problem in europe. so it's by definition, but why not reason as they do in denmark? now, if we have a huge problem with saturated fats, why do we have to have an extra problem with trans fats, too? i don't understand that logic. you can't get rid of all the saturated fats, but you can actually get rid of this industrialized production of trans fats, which is just a cheap and bad way to cook. i am also very pleased that we are taking up this issue of glutamate in the report. finally, i would like to say that subsidiarity is important. we could have dismissed a lot of the opinions about what different schools should do and serve. i think there are better political levels for taking such decisions than here in the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. feminists! now we members of the european parliament have the chance to show that we are indeed members of the european parliament. that we stand by the treaty and the rights it gives us. that we legislate for the benefit of patients, not to protect and support the protectionism that sometimes permeates the debate. that we believe there is value in working together to provide our patients with the best possible care, wherever it is. the proposal put forward by commissioner vassiliou is a good starting point and deserves praise. we must follow her lead and ensure that no unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles are imposed. this means, in plain language, that member states are not entitled to impede free movement without good reason. prior notification requirements may only be used in exceptional cases if specified in the commission list or if there is a risk of mass patient emigration that would undermine the health system. that this would happen, given the low number of patients who have chosen to seek treatment abroad, is highly unlikely. so, the starting point is no prior authorization. anything else would be against the treaty. the next step in this work of creating conditions for the best possible care is to implement the directive correctly. sick people should not have to go to court to obtain their rights and to remove unjustified requests for prior authorisation. the court will rule in favour of free movement, but what a cost in money and health if patients have to assert their rights every time! i really hope that we will not have to go through this and i call on my colleagues to help, and also on the president-in-office, and i am absolutely convinced that our commissioner will help us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the directive gives the eu more power over healthcare and i am against opening up eu legislation in this area. health care should be a national competence. the provision of a form of medical tourism to patients is a misplaced priority of our common healthcare resources. the new basic rule of having the right to care in another eu country without prior notice opens up a can of worms for young, language-gifted, relatively healthy people and risks depleting the resources of those with greater care needs, such as our elderly and people with disabilities. of course, everyone should have the right to healthcare if they fall ill in another eu country, but we already have that right without new eu legislation on the matter. health care remains a national competence.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this issue is about the right of the individual to seek medical care where there is good care to be had. the representative of the left, eva-britt svensson, said here earlier today that this will lead to medical tourism. i would like to inform her that when sick people seek treatment, it is because they are in pain, they are suffering, they are injured and they need treatment. it's not about tourism. this question is ultimately about the power of the bureaucracy or the right of the individual. it's about whether to use old borders as a barrier to people seeking healthcare or whether to use european openness as an opportunity for people across europe to get the best healthcare they can get. it was interesting to hear the message from the left, but since i have the social democrat representative here in front of me, jan andersson, and he is right behind me on the speakers list, it would be interesting to hear from him: does he share eva-britt svensson's view that sick people who want to seek treatment abroad are engaged in medical tourism? does he, like her, want to build up various kinds of barriers or will you and the social democrats be working for the greatest possible openness, where sick people do not have to ask the public authorities for permission to receive medical care? this question, mr andersson, is about social europe. it's not about how individual decision-makers should decide over others, but how the individual should be able to get the best health care. the floor is yours, jan andersson.
mr president, i would like to thank you. madam commissioner, and in particular, welcome to mrs bachelot. we worked well together in the past and i hope we will work well together in the future as well. welcome to the house. quickly to mr hökmark, this is not a domestic debate. i am not relating my views to mrs svensson, i am expressing my own views. i welcome this directive for several reasons. we need clarification, legally. i think it's better than the draft that was before. there are great advantages, especially for people living in border regions, as i do. having said that, i would also like to say that it is important to be able to reconcile this with the different systems around europe, in terms of organisation, funding and similar issues. in particular, one issue is important to consider. it's the equal treatment. we know that there are priorities in health care, but it is important that all people are treated equally and that no one is given priority because of their resources, and that we can combine these two things with cross-border care. the question of prior authorisation is important. we need to discuss that issue further. the limit set by the directive is not a good one. hospital care, not hospital care. it's very different from country to country, it changes over time. we need to find other criteria. i look forward to working with you. we in our committee will be dealing with the financing of the social security systems which are part of this cooperation. i look forward to working with the other committees on this matter.
in writing. − this report on non-profit-making, non-commercial, community media in europe addresses an area which is considered to merit increased financial contribution from eu support programmes. this is yet another example of the various special interests in this parliament trying to increase the number of eu aid programmes and also increase the financial resources for them in order to distribute appropriations to the right and the left. it is inconceivable that support for non-profit-making, non-commercial community media could be seen as a task to be dealt with at eu level. the principle of subsidiarity naturally leads to the conclusion that this is a task for the member states or regional political units. there is the knowledge of these media and there is the possibility of weighing such expenditure against the need for resources for, for example, health care, schooling, care, etc. in the name of subsidiarity, we have voted against this report in its entirety.
in writing. − generally speaking we support the idea of granting long-term residents the right to vote at european and local elections. however, we believe it is for the member states to decide on the right to vote in local elections in accordance with the relevant international conventions.
in writing. i reiterate the importance i attach to freedom of expression and the maintenance of media pluralism. blogs are tools that can threaten privacy, and be equated with "press offenses" if they are false or malicious.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the report to the council. mikkos original proposal which included the possibility to register, demand the right of reply and make it easier to prosecute the author of blogs is far from my idea of freedom of speech and free opinion formation. fortunately, the report was revised on these points before the proposal went to the plenary. however, this revision was not sufficient to support the report, since the proposal still conflicts with the independence of the media, freedom of opinion and freedom of expression on many points. amendment no 5 which was finally adopted by parliament is a better alternative to the report. a better, but not a good alternative. the issue of media concentration and diversity is important and should be discussed. but this resolution is not the way to go. media issues must always be handled in a responsible and thoughtful manner. i cannot compromise on the independence of the media, freedom of opinion and freedom of expression; these values are too fundamental to be compromised. that is why i abstained in today's vote. in this way i want to show my support for the debate, but also to express my concern about the recurrent attempts to regulate issues relating to the media and freedom of expression.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. in preparing this report, the rapporteur went too far in his ambition to find ways of controlling and monitoring the blogosphere. fortunately, the committee backed up its motion for a resolution somewhat, and some of the groups' motions for resolutions are better than the draft report. but the basic question remains: why does this report need to be dealt with in the european parliament in the first place? the question of media concentration is important - so important that it should continue to be dealt with in the member states. we have therefore voted against this report in its entirety.
in writing. - we have voted against amendment no 1 on the taxation of windfall profits, as we consider the proposed text to be unclear and we question how this should be implemented and, above all, what the proposal ultimately aims at. however, we voted in favour of the amendment which proposes a reduction in vat on energy-saving goods and services, as this could be one of many ways of stimulating the transition to more energy-efficient alternatives. we would point out, however, that taxes are a matter of national competence and that decisions on them can only be taken by the member states.
in writing. - there is much that the eu can do to reduce the problem of obesity and that we should focus on in parliament. it is therefore good that parliament voted today in favour of the report on diet, overweight and obesity. the resolution calls for a ban on trans fats. but at the same time we think that the report could have avoided having a lot of opinions about what different schools should do and serve. we believe that this is best decided at national or local level.
the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, including the european information and communication network, to be set up in the member states. this type of important labour market issue should not be regulated by the eu institutions. member states are better placed than the eu institutions to develop successful policies in these areas. any international coordination should be carried out within the framework of global organisations with broad democratic legitimacy, such as the ilo. we have therefore voted against the final vote on this resolution.
mr president, i have three points to begin with. regarding russia, we must maintain a policy of being open and firm at the same time, never accepting russian claims to any interests in other countries, be they ‘near abroad’ or far away. this will be of fundamental importance in the years to come. secondly, the budget review must aim to open up and deregulate european agriculture, creating more opportunities for farmers in europe, as well as in other parts of the world – though with fewer subsidies – aiming for a global, functioning agricultural market to meet the new demands for food all over the world. thirdly, the actions regarding climate change must start now, in spite of the financial crisis, so that we can benefit from a long-term process; in this way we can fight climate change and be prepared to meet the other changes it will bring about. regarding the financial crisis that we have been speaking about today, many of the speakers have forgotten that we are now at the end of a long-term process, unique in human history – that of global growth that has brought prosperity in a way that we have never seen before. we are now at the end of that. i did not hear anything about this from mr schulz earlier today. of course, we have a number of problems, but they do not only concern the market. no one can say that the sub-prime loans in the usa are the result of market forces. they are the result of decisive political interventions. what we need now is to ensure that we have transparency, accountability and supervision that covers the modern markets as they are. they are both european and global, and we need to ensure that we can catch up with the reality of the financial markets. then we can also be constructive regarding the development of a real economy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the financial crisis is now hitting europe with full force. the decision taken yesterday by europe's finance ministers on a common minimum level of deposit guarantee is an important step. so did the bailouts of individual banks that took place. the current coordinated rate cuts by several central banks are necessary to restore confidence in the financial markets. these measures are targeted and must resolve a crisis here and now. we, the decision-makers, also need to take responsibility for a functioning market in the long term. this means that we must act methodically and clearly on the new legislation we are drawing up so that it also creates good opportunities for growth. the importance of impact assessments has not been reduced by the financial crisis, but has become even more important. the proposals presented here in the lamfalussy process mean better coordination of european supervision and are an important step towards a better european market. i would like to thank both colleagues, and in particular ieke van den burg, who has done a great job for many years and has been very persistent. it's good when politicians are! the proposals build on existing systems which also need to be improved and made more efficient, without slowing down the economy. we must not confuse our responsibility to respond and deal with crises quickly with an even greater responsibility - that our rules must work, not only in these times of crisis, but also for the future growth of europe. protectionism is never the answer and this is not the end of the global economy.
president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am aware of the attachment you, and in particular you, mr president, have to transparency issues, and the presidency shares this. it is very important that our citizens can understand how european decisions affecting them are taken - this is the case for european legislation - and we must, of course, make progress in this area. your question is welcome because it provides an update on the difficult issue of public access to legal advice. this is the subject of the judgment, but the whole of the transparency policy must be assessed in the light of this judgment. the turco judgment is important because it is the first time that the court of justice has ruled on the specific cases of legal opinions and the conditions for their public access. in its judgment, the court stressed the importance of transparency and openness in the legislative process in order to allow citizens to participate more fully in the decision-making process. it also concludes that regulation no 1049/2007, which provides a framework for public access to documents, imposes in principle an obligation to disclose the opinions of the institution's legal service relating to the legislative process. in answer to your question, mr cappato, the council has taken the necessary steps to implement this court judgment, and has done so since the first days of july 2008. the council has complied with the judgment and has made public the document requested by mr turco. the council then decided to adapt its practice to the court's judgment, taking account of this principle as laid down in the judgment. it is true that there are exceptions, but the court itself defined them in this judgment, in respect of opinions which are particularly sensitive or, on the contrary, of a particularly wide scope. in any case, any refusal by the council, as you know, must be substantiated in detail. the council received a number of specific requests for legal opinions from the council's legal service and applied the principles of the court. however, you are aware that the public disclosure of legal opinions internal to an institution may affect the legitimate interest of the institutions to seek and receive objective and independent opinions. we have to find a balance between the two. this is why the legislator explicitly wished to protect the confidentiality of legal opinions, and this is a requirement that remains present in our opinion. beyond these very technical replies - i agree with them and i apologize for them - but which are official since i have made them on behalf of the presidency, i have thus the opportunity to give an update on the transparency policy. several aspects of this policy of transparency must be distinguished. first, as regards direct access to working documents - that is the subject of your question - i confirm that the council is fully applying the provisions of article 12 of regulation 1049/2001 and annex ii to the council's rules of procedure, which requires the keeping of a public register and specifies the modalities for direct public access to council documents. i do not want to bore you with too much technicality or numbers, but the fact is that the figures are illuminating, since the public access register contains references to over a million documents established since 1999. you'll say, "too much is the enemy of good"... secondly, it seems to me that the important thing is the legibility and the publicity of the decisions taken by the institutions. this is what mrs wallström is doing in particular in the legislative procedure, and the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking contains general commitments on transparency. measures have already been taken to implement this agreement. all council deliberations under the codecision procedure are open to the public and the council regularly holds public debates on important issues affecting the interests of the union and its citizens. in order to improve public access to the deliberations, there is also a council website which has created accessible sections so that you can watch the video streams of the deliberations which, you will admit, is still an important and particularly exciting point! the council presidencies also have a role to play. following the example of the websites of previous presidencies, the french presidency has invested heavily in its multilingual website ue2008.fr, which includes a 'web tv' with several channels, similar to the one that the european parliament has fortunately launched. third and last, we must be able to respond to requests for information from the public. to do this, a public information service has also been set up - and this seems to me to be the most important point - because where we are least equipped, it is most certainly in the practical information we have to give to the public. and that's why citizens are legitimately concerned and feel that it's too opaque. this is because we either have insufficient resources or information sites that are not sufficiently coordinated and do not allow the public to be aware of all the legislation. and it is on this last point that the council must concentrate its efforts. these are the elements i wanted to share with you. transparency is absolutely essential. we have reached an important agreement with the commission and the european parliament, also in terms of communication, to increase transparency, and i believe that the interinstitutional negotiations we have had with mrs wallström and the vice-president of the european parliament enable us to look to the future under better conditions. it is a collective task and we must now give it its full meaning. i should like to point out that we have a real political will to make progress in this area of transparency, in the information and communication policy, especially in the practical information which, in the case of legislation, must be given to the citizens. we must therefore make greater use of the new information technologies. but i know that this concern is shared by parliament, the commission and the council.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their questions. of course, as we have already heard, this turco judgement by the court of justice is a very important one. the commission fully agrees with the court when it recalls the great importance of an open legislative process. needless to say, we will respect this judgement and take it fully into account in our daily work. i want to be as clear as possible, but i will have to be rather brief in my replies to your five specific questions. the first one concerns better lawmaking, our interinstitutional relations and regulation 1049/2001. this turco judgement concerns access to documents by the public. there is no direct link to our interinstitutional cooperation. for that we have our framework for enhanced interinstitutional cooperation, which i believe works very well. our two institutions have a good track record of working together in the legislative process to meet the better lawmaking objective. regarding your second question on accessible information on current public consultations, i would like to start by mentioning the prelex database, as we call it in our jargon. the aim behind this database is to facilitate access to pre-legislative documents through a single entry point. in practice, it is a portal containing links to key pre-legislative documents. this database is operated by the official publications office and it is based on information supplied by the commission. more importantly, it is directly accessible to the public on the europa server. regarding public consultations launched by the commission, there is also a single access point on the europa server. that is your voice in europe. this website facilitates access to consultations and provides general information on the commission’s different consultation processes. it also gives comprehensive information on open public consultations and on related consultation documents and questionnaires. in addition, this access point also gives information on the follow-up, such as consultation reports and published contributions. regarding your third question about the trans-jai project, i would simply like to assure you that full public access with dedicated servers – entitled ‘public go live’ – for the trans-jai web portal is planned for march 2010. this leads to your fourth question on the transparency principle and the principle of good administration. of course these principles are closely interlinked. we are always committed to providing as much information as possible to the public. this is particularly the case for procedures which concern citizens and their rights and for the workings of the institutions, which we all know are sometimes not so easy to understand. the commission’s website gives information on its organisation and procedures, and we have an easy-access ‘who is who’ directory of the commission staff and the different directorates-general. your last question, number 5, concentrates on the public register of documents and the ombudsman’s draft recommendation in the ‘statewatch’ complaint. a public register of documents has been up and running since 3 june 2002, as required by regulation 1049/2001. since then, the commission has also put in place a dedicated register for comitology procedures and a register on expert groups. we are doing our utmost to modernise our internal it systems but, as you know, unfortunately these things do not happen overnight. but one thing is clear. this is ongoing work. we always take into account the need to increase the coverage of this public register. more specifically, on the ombudsman’s draft recommendation in this case, the commission has of course submitted a detailed opinion to him. in that opinion we acknowledge that we still have to increase the coverage of our public registers and we confirm our commitment to further develop our public registers in the interests of enhanced transparency. on one point we were unable to share the ombudsman’s view. he concluded that the commission should – and i quote – ‘include references to all the documents within the meaning of article 3(a) in the register’. i can share the aim and the ambition of this conclusion, but unfortunately it is impossible to achieve. it is simply impossible to reconcile the wide and imprecise definition of ‘documents’ in article 3(a) of regulation 1049/2001 with one single, fully comprehensive public register. instead we have to provide the links or make different entry points. i could, of course, mention that i have made the register of my own correspondence directly accessible on the web, and i could mention other examples of what can be done proactively outside the formal legislation, such as improved registers, greater user-friendliness and accessibility, active dissemination and quicker publishing of documents. but all this is not our topic for discussion today. i am sure we will have other opportunities to discuss these important issues in depth.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, a precondition for the credibility and legitimacy of the eu is a set of working rules on transparency and the protection of data and information. transparency in the decision-making process is especially needed when european democracy is questioned. member states have different experiences. more exchange of experience can lead to better administration in the eu, but also in the member states. we have come very far since 2001 when the eu legislation on transparency was decided. most member states already have some kind of freedom of information act – sweden and finland since 1776, other countries like ireland since a few years ago. it takes time – you have to respect that – to find common behaviour and attitudes. one national formula cannot be applied over the whole eu. the cultures are too diverse. open government is essential in a representative democracy. the whole process is influenced by the fact that the digital revolution is transforming our society into an information society. one important point that has to be better developed in regulation no 1049 is the balance between confidentiality and transparency. we need an open decision-making process respecting the overriding public interest without infringing institutions’ or the individual’s rights to confidentiality. judicial interpretation of complex matters, for example competition cases, cannot be left to the judgement of tabloids. the turco judgment can contribute to the development of better lawmaking. which practical consequences will the commission and council draw from the turco case?
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the eu system, the court of justice is at the centre and has the power to interpret political decisions. in interpreting eu law, the court of justice's ruling is the final authority, regardless of the legislator's intention and intentions with the legislation. we saw it in the laval, rüffert and others cases. in these cases the court ruled against the workers. in turco, on the other hand, the court ruled in favour of the applicant. i welcome that, but my basic criticism remains that the court of justice decides eu policy and that in any dispute the court of justice always has the final say. in turco i welcome the court's recognition of the primacy of citizen control over the legislative process. it is a step in the right direction, but i regret to say that there are still many steps to be taken before the eu leaves its closed way of working, where only those on the inside can find their way forward. this is a matter of democracy and participation and openness. it is important to take note of the turco case in the context of the current review of the so-called transparency regulation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am a staunch eu sceptic, but there are two areas where the eu should have a central international role: trade policy and environmental policy. now we're talking about trade policy. free world trade is the key to economic prosperity for all the countries of the world and especially for the poorest. the setback at the doha round this summer was therefore profoundly serious and it is now up to the eu, the world's largest trading organisation, to take a new initiative. it is therefore deeply unfortunate that peter mandelson, our most competent commissioner, is leaving his post as head of the eu's trade policy. at the same time, the world economy is threatened by a devastating financial crisis. at this stage, the uk government proposes a replacement who is clearly incompetent for the task. it is now the responsibility of the european parliament to ensure that we have a strong and competent trade commissioner at this dangerous historical juncture. let's take that responsibility!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was going to talk about two things. the first is how we are going to deal with the over-prescription of antibiotics, which is very well dealt with in the report. it is only to go to ourselves here in the european parliament or i need only go to myself. i don't think i'd be standing here today if we didn't have effective antibiotics. i have been ill a number of times, and as i'm sure many of you in this chamber have been saved by antibiotics. sadly, our children's future access to such help is threatened by our allowing doctors to prescribe antibiotics when they are not needed and even to sell antibiotics without a prescription. we need policies and incentives that discourage doctors from going to patients to make money, so that they don't prescribe antibiotics when they don't need to. i think the eu has a very important role to play here in disseminating ways of working successfully against this excessive prescription. the second issue i wanted to raise is health inequalities, which have also been raised by several previous speakers. there is another aspect to health inequality. it's not just about inequality between countries. it's also about inequality within countries. the who has had a special commission that has looked at class differences in health. it is plainly stated that 'social justice is a matter of life and death' and that this is something we must talk about openly in the union. the fact that there are such great differences within countries is completely unacceptable. there are good examples of success in addressing class differences in health, but there are also very bad examples. i am very concerned about what is happening in my own country's capital. suddenly, a system has been introduced that moves doctors from the socially deprived and poor areas where medical care is most needed to areas where people are healthiest and most well-off. i think the eu should collect statistics and knowledge so that voters, and also those who make decisions about health care, can be clearly informed about which measures lead to greater social equality in health and which do not.
in writing. - we have no objection to informing and educating the citizens of the member states about eu cooperation in an objective and factual manner. but it must not be propaganda for the introduction of even more supranational government in the union. the joint declaration on communication in europe to which this report refers also mentions several different eu programmes, such as 'plan d' and 'citizens for europe', which junilista strongly criticises. the declaration also praises eu parties, and political foundations linked to them, which the junilists believe must be built from below by the national parties of the member states and not from above by the eu bureaucracy. we have therefore voted against this report. we believe that the joint declaration on communication on europe should have been written in a different way, with an emphasis on factual information and education and an open debate in which political forces who want intergovernmental cooperation in europe, not a united states of europe, can also have a say.
in writing. - we, the swedish social democrats, have voted in favour of the report on combating undeclared work (a6-0365/2008). the report contains many important texts, including those on the liability of main contractors for irregularities in subcontracting. the report also addresses the recent interpretation of the posting of workers directive by the court of justice. the report is therefore good on the whole, but we would like to make it clear that we consider tax policy and, above all, the choice of tax levels to be a matter for the member states. however, there was no opportunity to vote specifically on these parts of the report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against discrimination on grounds of sex, age, disability, age, age of majority, age of the workforce and age of the population. black labour is just one of several serious problems for which the social partners must find solutions. the panzeri report is rich in well-meaning and in some cases far-reaching advice on how the individual member states should organise their respective labour markets in general and tackle the problem of undeclared work in particular. the rapporteur calls on the member states to continue reforming their tax and social security systems and to take joint action to combat undeclared work. the rapporteur also proposes a common approach to immigration in the eu and that 'reforms of economic policies, taxation and social security systems in all member states should be integrated and take account of the main causes of undeclared work'. junilista believes that labour market policy is a national concern and we therefore see with great concern how the eu is trying to increase its influence in these matters at the expense of the self-determination of the individual member states. for the reasons mentioned above, the junilista has decided to vote against the report.
in writing. - we believe that effective measures must be taken to stop undeclared work. however, we cannot accept that a common immigration policy, for example, should be part of the solution to the problems of undeclared work. that is why we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we would, however, like to clarify our position on the minimum wage points. we share the view that the number of working poor in europe must be reduced. all workers in europe must be guaranteed a sustainable income. member states which wish to solve this by means of statutory minimum wages are free to do so. it is equally clear that member states which have transferred pay to the social partners should be able to continue to do so. comparisons between different labour market models and their ability to guarantee workers fair wages are provided in the lisbon strategy. it is important that such an exchange of experience takes place between member states.
in writing. - we have voted against the report on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty in the eu because several of the proposals concern areas which should be dealt with at national level. the content of health care is primarily a national responsibility, as is the actual content of labour market policy. these two areas are best addressed at national level, closer to the citizens. measures such as minimum wages also run counter to the aim of the report by creating more obstacles to the fight against social exclusion.
in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. we need sensible comments on the importance of a reasonable tax burden, with strange statements on the importance of the citizen's wage and the minimum wage set by the eu. whatever one's view of the matter - and in the latter two cases my view is strongly negative - it can be stated that these are not areas where the eu has, or should have, competence. since neither the political substance nor the political level was in line with my fundamental convictions as a liberal and a people's party, i therefore voted against, even though the report also contained some sensible remarks.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. we have previously voted in favour of establishing cooperation agreements with ukraine (brok report a6-0023/2004). the zaleski report is based on a commission proposal which aims only at partial renewal of the cooperation agreement with ukraine following its accession to the wto. nevertheless, the report is characterised by interventionist ambitions and far-reaching proposals for how the eu should steer developments in a number of policy areas in ukraine, including energy policy, fiscal policy, telecommunications, water, tourism and education. as junilist is strongly opposed to the eu's foreign policy ambitions, we have voted against the report.
in writing. - junilista believes that the eu is a union of values and should therefore play a role in promoting democracy and human rights in its neighbourhood. you belong to belarus. the parliamentary elections in belarus in september did not appear to meet international standards, as was also noted by international observers. the lack of transparency and democratic elections is very regrettable, both for belarus and for the region and europe. however, the resolution contains several lines of writing that should not be there. the european parliament called on belarus to abolish the early voting procedure. it may be true that part of the electoral fraud is carried out by this type of voting, but we still believe that it is up to each sovereign state to decide how elections are to be conducted, as long as they are democratic. furthermore, there are also views on visas, which we consider to be a national issue. it is up to each sovereign state to decide who will be allowed to stay on its territory. despite the objections we have raised above, we voted in favour of the resolution because we believe it is important to stress that belarus must become democratic.
in writing. - the junilist accepts the eu's central role in trade policy. good relations and a developed world trade are essential to achieving economic prosperity for all the countries of the world, not least the poorest. the junilista therefore supports several of the texts of the resolution. the call for the industrialized and advanced developing countries to offer the least developed countries 100% duty-free and quota-free market access to, inter alia, the single market is welcomed. we also welcome the proposal to reform the wto in order to increase its efficiency, transparency and democratic legitimacy once the doha round is concluded. however, we regret that the resolution contains references to the treaty of lisbon. the entry into force of the proposed treaty should be considered highly uncertain, not least because the irish people voted against the treaty earlier this year. continued references to the lisbon treaty therefore signal a lack of acceptance of the rules of the democratic system. the resolution's texts are, however, broadly based on a sound understanding of the importance of world trade for continued development and prosperity. the junilista has therefore voted in favour of the resolution as a whole.
in writing. - the swedish social democrats have voted against the report by carlos carnero gonzález on the use of the union's symbols by parliament (a6-0347/2008). these symbols already exist and are used today and do not need to be regulated in this way.
in writing. - we can see that there are desperate attempts to construct a european nation with its own national identity. experience shows that it is not possible to create a common identity artificially. there are a number of examples of this, including the state of belgium, which was created almost 180 years ago by the merger of flanders and wallonia. despite having a common royal house, flag, anthem and currency, belgium is falling apart. eu flags, national anthems and europe days may seem to be insignificant symbols. however, it is part of the european parliament's overall ambition, namely to build a united states of europe. the original eu constitution, which was rejected in referendums in france and the netherlands, contained references to the eu's national anthem and flag, among other things. this was overturned and eu leaders presented a 'new' treaty, the so-called lisbon treaty. the european parliament is now seeking revenge by introducing the use of eu symbols behind the scenes. we believe that european cooperation is in danger of suffering the same fate as the esperanto project, the artificial language which never became a world language but has largely died out. identity and cohesion are created by the people, not by the elite. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i have voted against the report by mr carlos carnero gonzález on the use of the symbols of the union by parliament. the reason for this is that i do not think that the use of symbols needs to be written into any treaty or any rules of procedure. they're there anyway.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'water' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. however, we believe that information and training campaigns should be initiated primarily at local and regional level and not at the request of the eu.
in writing. − we share the concern of the resolution about the effects of climate change on the sustainability of the communities that inhabit the arctic area as well as the effects on the natural habitat, and we recognise the significance of the arctic for the global climate and therefore the arctic as a common concern. we cannot, however, support this resolution as its point of departure is first and foremost the interests of the eu. we believe that a policy which is not firmly rooted in the interests of the peoples of the arctic area is illegitimate. we believe that the starting point for all talks and initiatives concerning the arctic area must be the respect of the sovereign territory of the arctic nations and equally the inclusion of all the peoples of the arctic area as equal partners. finally, during the vote a majority rejected an amendment which stressed the need for the arctic to become a demilitarised and nuclear-free zone, thereby clearing the path for the arctic policy that this resolution calls for to include militarisation of the arctic and placement of nuclear weapons in the area. we cannot support this under any circumstances.
in writing. - we have voted with great hesitation in favour of this report. however, the road transport sector is a cross-border issue and the working conditions of self-employed drivers are part of this issue. there are some phrases in the report which we do not like, such as the question of safe and guarded parking spaces for professional drivers, which we regard as a matter for the member states. we also believe that working time issues in general are also a matter for the member states.
in writing. the legislation which alejandro cercas is dealing with is not without controversy. i think everyone agrees that it is in the interest of both truck drivers and the public that large, heavy vehicles are not driven by people who suffer from severe sleep deprivation. of course, rules are necessary in this area. at the same time, it must be clear that the truck strike that broke out on the öresund bridge in november 2007 was not an accident. the working time regulations that the eu has developed in many occupational areas have been widely criticised, both by employers and workers. it would therefore perhaps be more appropriate to ask the commission to carry out an impact assessment of the way the legislation has worked and been received, rather than to call for even stricter implementation. this type of legislation requires considerable flexibility to be able to operate in, for example, both romania and denmark. that's why i put my vote down.
for the pse group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking evelyne gebhardt for her good work, but i regret that we were unable to reach an agreement with sweden and myself. that is why i could not vote for the report in committee and i cannot vote for it in plenary. for me, as a swedish social democrat, this proposal is a step backwards for equality between women and men. therefore, these issues should continue to be resolved at national level. i think it would be enough to grant divorce only when the parties are in complete agreement. the weaker party, usually the woman, can now be forced by the man to make a decision, either by being first or by using force. the courts may thus be forced to apply laws that we strongly criticize, laws that are offensive and have an outdated and old-fashioned view of women, marriage and divorce. i'm more concerned with gender equality and women's safety than quick divorce verdicts. i will therefore continue to work and vote against this proposal until we find another solution.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. the aim of the proposal is to enable citizens in the event of divorce to exercise their rights and obtain the information they need, but the right to information and knowledge is not dependent on a common set of rules. a common regulatory framework does not in itself create more knowledge or make citizens better informed. in my home country, sweden, if you do not have small children in common, the only requirement for divorce is to file a notice. there are also examples of other countries within the eu where divorce is completely banned. this, if anything, illustrates the need for national legislation in this area! the lisbon treaty does indeed make some aspects of civil and family law supranational, but we do not have a lisbon treaty today. i question the commission's proposals in an area which is still a matter for national competence. my group will not vote for the motion. i also thought i had a very good argument from my social democrat colleague inger segelström.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking roberta angelilli for a very good report in which she followed up on the decisions taken by the children's strategy. last week i presented a report on young people and the media. it's a big study of young people's media habits, and we're also taking into account the views of their parents. the new thing is that a majority of young people in sweden have their own computer in their room and that the tv has been thrown out. there is a big difference between girls and boys in the way they use the internet. the girls chat, socialize, and text, while the boys play games. the girls are being approached for sexual contact. fewer girls are exposed to pornography sites than in the past, but they are very negative about online pornography. very few people meet strangers from the internet in real life. young people today have a healthy view of the media, but the high consumption is worrying both parents and us politicians. that group needs to be included in community programmes in future. we've defined a high consumer as someone who uses a media device for more than three hours a day. this is the case for about 8-9 percent of the total youth population. but in sweden today, 96 percent of all young people have a mobile phone: the same is true of 70 percent of the younger children. so the pace of development is at record speed. our job as members of parliament is to fight the avars.
rapporteur. − mr president, this report is a response to the global climate change alliance, which was launched by the european commission towards the end of last year. basically, the global climate change alliance is a very good initiative. it is, first and foremost, a recognition that low-income countries will be seriously at risk because of climate change. it is an irony that, only eight years ago, the millennium development goals were agreed upon in new york. there was hardly any mention of climate change, yet it was obvious – already then – that many low-income countries would suffer badly from the adverse effects of climate change. the way we are organised, however, in national organisations, in governments etc. – climate change on its track, development cooperation on another track – was already a real impediment or hindrance towards fully recognising the threat of climate change to development and poverty reduction. the challenge is, of course, great. in order to assist low-income countries in adaptation and risk reduction and in mitigation efforts, and to look for synergies between the two, there must be a special focus on deforestation and then, finally and most importantly, implementing all these concerns in the context of development planning and poverty reduction. it is crucial that we do not end up with a series of stand-alone adaptation projects. rather, we have to mainstream adaptation and risk reduction into development cooperation. the big question when we discussed this in the committee on development was how to finance this. the commission proposal entails only eur 60 million. it is a drop in the ocean. nobody knows how much adaptation risk reduction will cost; nobody knows what technological cooperation will cost in terms of mitigation. the world bank, oxfam, undp and others have come up with estimates ranging between usd 10 billion and, i would say, usd 100 billion yearly. some measures need not cost more: if you do development planning and poverty reduction strategies taking into account the adverse effects of climate change at the beginning, you may not end up with increased costs. but in many areas we know that there will be additional costs. farming practices, risk reduction for extreme weather events, sea level rise, health measures: you name it. the question is: where will the extra or additional funding come from? in the report we make a few suggestions. one of them, quite naturally, is to use some of the revenue from the expected auctioning of emission permits in the future. it is very important to somehow earmark funding for developing countries in this context. another suggestion is that member states should support the commission initiative and not embark on their own initiatives. this is a new area, where it makes sense to pool resources. finally, all that we do in this area must be seen in the context of next year’s climate negotiations in copenhagen. proactive action from annex 1 countries – in particular the eu – in this field is crucial for a global deal to be struck. the development report deals with the issues mentioned – and many others – in the spirit of supporting the european commission initiative and with the primary aim of strengthening it, both in terms of substance and finance.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i hope the commission will be here soon. they haven't arrived yet. i shall begin by speaking in general terms about the report. in the european parliament we have on several occasions discussed the policy to be pursued in a globalised society. we're not going to compete for low-wage jobs, we're going to have good working conditions, we're going to invest in human capital, in people and investment and so on to be successful. we have also discussed many times the balance between open borders and a strong social europe and have concluded that this balance is important. we have also often discussed the issue and importance of equal treatment of people regardless of gender, ethnic origin and nationality and have stated that equal treatment and non-discrimination should prevail. the report is about having open borders. the committee is in favour of open borders without restrictions and transitional periods, but at the same time we want a social europe in which we do not compete with each other by forcing lower wages, worse working conditions and the like. the report also deals with the principle of equal treatment, i.e. equal treatment and non-discrimination of employees, irrespective of nationality. it must not be the case that a latvian, a pole, a german, a swede or a dane is treated differently in the same labour market. that is also the background to the proposals in the report. the main proposals concern the posting of workers directive, as three of the judgments concern posted workers. it is very important that we do not make the posting directive a minimum directive. it is true that the directive contains 10 minimum conditions which must be met. these conditions must be met, but the basic principle is equal treatment. that's why we need to be clear. equal treatment shall apply irrespective of nationality. in a labour market, such as that of the german state of lower saxony, the conditions which apply there must be applied to all workers, regardless of their origin. this is an important principle which must become even clearer after the judgments that have been handed down. the second is that we have different labour market models. all these models must be equally valuable in terms of implementation. some other things in the directive also need to be changed. we must also make it absolutely clear that the right to strike is a fundamental and constitutionally protected right which cannot be subordinated to freedom of movement. this is true of the new treaty, but also of other aspects of primary law. thirdly, ec law must not violate the ilo convention. the rüffert case concerns an ilo convention on public procurement. in that case, the working conditions applicable at the place of employment shall apply. that is the reason for the proposals that have been put forward. i will listen to the debate and at the same time i would like to thank everyone involved, including the shadow rapporteur, for the good cooperation we have had. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to emphasize what is in the report and what is not in the report. i would like to thank the rapporteur. he has been sympathetic to the differences of opinion in the committee. this means, mr spidla, that the report does not call for the posting directive to be repealed or amended. the report was initially full of condemnations and criticisms of the court, but this has been removed. that's what we're talking about now. to emphasize this, i would like to quote in english: i will quote the english text of paragraph 27: welcomes the commission's indication that it is now ready to re-examine the impact of the internal market on labour rights and collective bargaining; and: suggests that this re-examination should not exclude a partial review of the pwd meaning not exclude. madam president, i would like to thank you. this means that there is no requirement for change. however, the commission's review of how this works in the different member states is welcomed. if this review gives rise to changes, they should not be excluded. i would like to say this because the posting directive plays a very important role. a million people have opportunities to work in different countries. it is also about equal treatment, the same right to work in all parts of the union, even if you have a collective agreement from your country of origin. that's the question. as long as you comply with the rules of the posting of workers directive, you have the right to work throughout the eu. this was also the court's conclusion in the laval case, among others. mr commissioner, madam president, the criticism directed at the court of justice is no longer in the committee's proposal and there is no call to tear up the posting directive, it is important to remember this before the next debate.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, mr andersson, for an important report. a lot of people are talking about the lavaldomen where the swedish union went too far. there are a lot of things in the report that i do not like. there is a tone in the interpretation of the ecj and several points point to what jan andersson originally wanted, to tear up the posting of workers directive. but that is not what the revised report says, as gunnar hökmark very rightly points out. the question now is not to exclude a partial revision of the directive, which is more in line with the opinion of the imco committee, for which i was responsible. the vote will hopefully further confirm that the posting of workers directive does not need to be repealed. please see proposals 14 and 15 from the alde group. - what? it is wrong to think that the swedish model is best preserved by going through brussels - it is the opposite! if we go through brussels, the swedish model of responsible partners can be threatened and we will have legislation and minimum wages in sweden. it cannot reasonably be in the interest of the swedish trade union.
madam president, i would like to thank you. one of jan andersson's main conclusions is that the labour market should be safeguarded by changing the eu's posting directive. the best solution for sweden would be to have the eu treaty clearly stipulate that labour market issues are to be decided at national level. if there is one thing we should have learned from the laval judgment, it is that our labour market should not be governed by eu legislation. the junilista advocates a swedish exemption from eu labour law. it would be interesting to hear what jan andersson thinks about this proposal. is eu law always the way forward? the law is the result of the fact that the european social democrats and the european parliament's political leaders have agreed to changes in the eu treaties, giving the eu and the ec court of justice more and more power over labour market policy. we will of course vote against mr andersson's praise of the lisbon treaty.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? a few brief comments: there is a difference between the court's role and our role as legislators. the court has spoken. now, as legislators, we will act if we find that the court has not interpreted the legislation as we want. in the report we say that we and the commission will act. we should not rule out changes to the posting of workers directive, which we also point out. there is no contradiction between freedom of movement and good social conditions, quite the contrary. a few words on the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group. unfortunately, they contain a number of contradictions where they run counter to the compromises. on the one hand, one criticises unilateral statements by the council, on the other hand, one welcomes statements. there are many contradictions in their amendments. i reject the exemption for certain countries because these are european problems which we must solve together. different labour markets should work side by side. we are in favour of the new treaty because the problems with the judges were in the old treaty. i am not saying no to action at national level. we need such measures in sweden and germany, for example, but we also need action at european level. finally, i would say that it is now up to the commission to act. if the commission is not responsive to parliament and, above all, to what the people of ireland, germany, sweden and other member states are saying, the european project will have a hard time. this is one of the most important issues for the citizens of europe. free movement - yes, but good social conditions and no social dumping. we must work for it, so listen to parliament! (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. two things are important. first, the financial crisis. it is important that we speak with one voice from europe. the last time we shared crisis management with the united states was when we were supposed to discuss terrorism. we imported a lot of rules that now feel very foreign to the european idea of personal privacy. in this crisis we need a european line and therefore common rules and standards are needed for things like transparency, soundness and what financial instruments are to be used in the european market. the stability pact is a great tool for this. secondly, the climate package. we have voted on the climate package in the two main committees and by a large majority have decided to support the commission's proposal. we will not back down on the goals and timetable. if the presidency is serious about emphasizing both the objectives and the timetable, we are actually waiting for information on when we can sit down and negotiate concretely. on the part of parliament, we will use the codecision and codecision procedure provided for in the interinstitutional balance. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? now we are late. we have many reports to consider and the report for which i am responsible is at the bottom of the voting list. since there is a risk that many members will leave the chamber, i would like to defer the vote on the andersson report until tomorrow. i would also like to hear whether the other political groups are in favour of this. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we also support the main content of parliament's report on the commission proposal and have therefore voted in favour. however, we oppose the request that the budget should increase from eur 60 million today to eur 2 billion in 2010 to finance the climate change alliance. we are also against the proposal to earmark at least 25% of future revenues from the auctioning of emission allowances to finance this increase in the budget.
in writing. − the fisheries policy of the eu is not, and never has been, based on well-considered and solidary decisions. fish stocks in europe have been declining dramatically in recent years, and little is being done to change this fact. the fisheries policy for which the eu should be responsible must be characterised by a long-term and forward-looking approach. in many ways, however, the report by mr busk is a positive development. the justification for the proposal states that the recovery of cod is of the utmost importance and that a total ban on cod fishing would be the best solution, even if this measure is subsequently rejected. unfortunately, the amendments to the report do not reflect the concerns of mr busk in the explanatory statement. the proposals are too weak to have any real significance. it is very unfortunate that the already inadequate regulation of fishing effort is being reviewed when the cod stock has 'improved substantially'. the focus should reasonably be on the need to safeguard recovery to a greater extent than at present. only then can we start talking about a possible revision. the report therefore sends the wrong signal, namely that the problem will soon be solved and that we will then have to start reviewing the system. the reality is quite the opposite. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - the condition of the cod is very serious and requires immediate and vigorous action. the commission's proposal is not sufficient, however, and it is lacking in several respects. it is also interesting to see how parliament suddenly thinks that a matter should be dealt with at national level. it is clear that the aim is to weaken the commission's proposals in favour of industry. you put a sonic goat on a gardener. we have voted against the report for the reasons stated above.
in writing. - france has submitted an application to mobilise the fund following the impact of hurricane dean on martinique and guadeloupe in august 2007. the commission has therefore proposed to mobilise a total of eur 12 780 000 from the fund to support france. junilista welcomes both national and international solidarity and aid actions when a country is hit by disasters. firstly, however, we believe that, as past experience has shown, the eu is not capable of managing disaster aid effectively with community funds. secondly, we are talking about a contribution of fractions of a billion of france's gdp. it is an unreasonable idea that the eu should intervene and co-finance projects which a rich member state should be able to manage on its own. we have therefore decided to vote against the report as a whole.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide climate change alliance. unfortunately, the basic intentions of the report have been peppered with writings that junilista cannot support, including the call to link the union's environmental commitment with a common foreign and security policy and detailed proposals on how the eu should initiate environmental initiatives in third countries. the climate change alliance can also be seen, according to some of the report's lines, as an attempt by the eu to extend its powers in forestry and maritime matters. we are strongly opposed to this use of questions to build the european union. junilista is strongly in favour of eu cooperation covering cross-border environmental issues. however, poverty reduction and environmental action at global level should be carried out within the framework of the un. the junilista has therefore, after careful consideration, voted against the report.
in writing. the report calls for greater cooperation between national administrations. it should be remembered, however, that it is institutional competition that tests the best forms of governance and distinguishes them from the less suitable. europe's diversity of administrative structures and the exchange of experience between them should be a good example. the report is full of well-intentioned words, but it lacks mainly concrete proposals on how to improve the management of structural operations in order to overcome the major shortcomings in the control of the financial aspects of structural operations. it is worth recalling that eu structural measures constitute the largest single item of expenditure for the union for the period 2007-2013 and that the european court of auditors in its report for the financial year 2006 finds that at least 12 per cent of the money paid out for structural measures should not have been paid out. the report also makes reference to the treaty of lisbon. however, this treaty has been rejected in the democratic processes. referring to the treaty of lisbon is therefore an expression of unacceptable arrogance. the future of the treaty is at the time of writing so uncertain that references to its content should be avoided. for these reasons, the junilista has decided to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. - it is interesting that the report now (in the draft report, point 5) notes the absence of a general strategy for the establishment of bodies at eu level. new bodies are being set up on a case-by-case basis and there has been an impenetrable patchwork of regulatory authorities, executive agencies and other community bodies. it is even more interesting to note that the majority in the european parliament has been a constant encourager of new bodies and only now realizes that the whole has been lost. the junilista group supports the main points of the report, but we are critical of the way in which the european parliament is now trying to introduce new areas of supervisory authorities which will present annual reports to parliament and that the directors of the authorities may be invited to the competent committees of parliament before they are appointed. we are sceptical of those proposals. first, it is appropriate that the commission be responsible for the management of those bodies. secondly, partisan politics may influence the appointment of directors of public authorities, who are themselves to be civil servants.
in writing. joseph kony and the lord's resistance army have been guilty of horrific crimes over the past 20 years which is why the international criminal court now wants to put him on trial. the conflict in the great lakes region, uganda and sudan continues, with new civilian casualties being claimed on a regular basis. it is the responsibility of the international community to put an end to this tragedy. the junilista generally takes a negative view of foreign policy resolutions. in this case, we are dealing with an organisation and its leaders who have been indicted by the international criminal court for crimes against humanity. that is why we have chosen to support this resolution.
in writing. - we have voted against this report by the european parliament's committee on culture and education. we are not voting against the idea of the erasmus mundus programme as such, but because of some of the detailed proposals that have been put forward by the committee and the commission. we are not in favour of any specific erasmus mundus visa as briefly described in the proposal. each member state has its own right to issue visas and we hope that they will have a free visa for students who are part of erasmus mundus. we believe that such visas cannot be regulated at eu level. we also reject the idea of eu financial support for an alumni association for those who graduate from erasmus mundus programmes. student associations should grow out of the needs and efforts of individual people. they cannot be built from the top down by the eu institutions.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive should be adopted by the council in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 189b of the ec treaty. the aim is to prevent one spouse from trying to take the time to bring an action in order to have the case governed by the law of a particular country which would protect the spouse's own interests. this objective is, of course, commendable in itself. however, in my view, the disadvantages of regulation outweigh the benefits. sweden has one of the most liberal marriage laws in the world, and that is something to be proud of. the danger of the original proposal is that it would mean that in some cases swedish courts could be forced to rule under maltese, irish, german or iranian law when a party seeks divorce. it would, in the long run, limit the swedish unconditional right of a person to apply for and also obtain a divorce - an area on which i would never compromise. my first thought was therefore to vote against the report. however, an oral amendment was tabled during the vote, which refers to the principle of public order. i still believe that the swedish model should be defended, but to encourage improvement i chose to abstain instead.
in writing. - it is with great disappointment that we of junilistan note the rapporteur's eagerness to go ahead with a question which has only recently been rejected by the council. in fact, the current brussels ii regulation, despite its shortcomings, is much better legislation than the one proposed by the rapporteur. the fact that the spouses are deprived of their right to choose their own court or jurisdiction shows the arrogance of the commission, and especially of the rapporteur, in dealing with the practices of all the member states. we not only reject this ill-conceived report but call on all members to stand up for the freedom of choice of spouses in divorce. complicated eu rules are the last thing these people need in these difficult times.
in writing. - as a european, i usually see a clear added value in european legislation. often problems are better solved by having more people think of them. this report is a regrettable exception to that rule. we have every reason to be proud of legislation which allows people to go their separate ways if they so wish, and therefore every reason to protect the system we have today in sweden. i therefore share the government's view that the commission's proposal for harmonisation is going in the wrong direction, when it has to take account of the practice of malta, for example. the vatican cannot be allowed to impede an active gender equality policy at home. the european parliament took a different view. that is why i intended to vote against the report - the amendment is also in the minutes.
in writing. - the fisheries policy of the eu is not and has never been based on well-considered and solidary decisions. fish stocks in europe have been declining dramatically in recent years, and little is being done to change this fact. instead, the eu is trading its aid for fishing rights in third world countries, thus also depleting their seas of fish. the local population along the coast is deprived of its livelihood and is forced to live on welfare, which is also rarely adequate compensation or compensation for the loss of income. the fisheries policy that the eu should be responsible for must be characterised by a long-term and forward-looking approach. such a procedure does not include aid for the rearmament and modernisation of fishing fleets, the ultimate aim of which is to increase fishing capacity. on the other hand, i would be happy to support measures aimed at supporting vulnerable local populations in poor coastal regions whose only source of income is fishing and who suffer immensely from the decline in fish stocks - largely as a direct result of the misguided eu fisheries policy. the proposals in the pedro guerreiro report do not contain any such measures, and i therefore voted against the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the map of europe has been changed by armed aggression and war. russia has thus demonstrated its readiness to use military force to achieve political ends. let us not allow this to be pushed out of the debate we are having today. of course, this must affect our view of russia, but also the different requirements that need to be set for future cooperation. i want to warn those who compare with other examples. hannes swoboda do not compare with iraq! iraq was a dictatorship of the most brutal kind, in conflict with the international community. we may have different views on what happened, but do not compare iraq with a european democracy and sovereign state. there is no excuse for what happened to georgia. don't try to excuse what can't be excused. russia or any other country has legitimate security interests in any other european country. this must be the starting point of all european cooperation, otherwise the basis of cooperation is undermined and the door is opened to further violence. we have important cooperation with russia in a number of areas which must be pursued together. it's about energy, it's about iran, it's about the climate. i believe that europe and the european union should be open to cooperation, but clearly with the requirements that must underlie that cooperation. we will welcome cooperation, but we will also be clear about the requirements that must be met. we can also thereby contribute to a development in russia that upholds democracy and respect for fundamental rules. this must be the basis of european policy towards russia.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in my country, sweden, we have unfortunately become well acquainted with this problem. tourists in a good holiday mood are tricked into buying shares in apartments they are not very happy with when they return home, if they have any with them when they return home! the new directive on timeshare will bring much better protection and the same rules for the purchase of timeshare wherever in the eu the purchase takes place. for people to enjoy the freedoms of the internal market with confidence, they need to be properly protected. consumers must feel strong, safe and secure. the seller is prohibited from requesting a deposit during the withdrawal period and the withdrawal period is also extended from 10 to 14 days. this way, consumers do not have to worry about losing the deposit if they are not satisfied or want to withdraw from the purchase during the cooling-off period. the directive is likely to force out unserious companies that do not meet the requirements of honest marketing and reasonable purchase agreements. i think that many people today are reluctant to buy such services in other member states precisely because they cannot feel safe and confident in consumer protection. the harmonization and measures of the directive will give consumers stronger consumer protection. this could help to encourage more people to take advantage of such shared-housing services outside their own member state, and we would naturally welcome that. in other words, this is an excellent proposal with broad support. sun-loving nordic citizens thank the commission, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is a matter of criticism that we did not receive the amendments until 10 a.m. this morning and then only in english, latvian and finnish. that's not how it's gonna be!
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. since the documents relating to the compromise resolution and the amendments to it were late, we abstained from voting on paragraph 19 (but none of them was a roll-call vote).
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the amendments, however, concern issues which should be dealt with at national level and not by the eu institutions. we have therefore voted against these amendments.
in writing. −initiatives and measures to prevent children from being exposed to crime when using the internet are urgently needed. for this reason, we voted in favour of the report by mrs angelill on the establishment of a multiannual community programme to protect children using the internet and other communication technologies. we would like to stress, however, that a number of the measures proposed in the report are better initiated and financed by the member states themselves. however, other measures aimed at combating, for example, child pornography, should be designed through cooperation between member states, given the global nature of the problem.
in writing. -today there are hundreds of simple, accessible and cheap computer programmes that effectively prevent children from accidentally visiting inappropriate websites on the internet. in addition, most standard browsers have various "child functions" installed, which make it easy for parents to control which pages their children are allowed to visit. the rapporteur is very vaguely proposing that a total of eur 55 million of european citizens' tax money should be allocated to an eu propaganda programme which in our view is unnecessary, expensive and ineffective.
in writing. −i have today abstained in the final vote on the report by mr jan andersson on the challenges facing collective agreements in the eu (a6-370/2008). collective agreements, trade union rights and the right to take military action are enshrined in the lisbon treaty, which i want to make legally binding. there is also the right to work, the right to run a business and the right to move across the union's borders. as the proposal requires, trade union representatives cannot be exempted from the respect of fundamental principles of community law, such as the principle of proportionality. it applies, and of course should apply, to all citizens of the union. the european parliament should be the strongest representative of community law and the treaties. the position adopted by parliament on the legal basis risks becoming a threat to the future of free movement. however, i am very pleased that the european parliament has taken a stand on the swedish model and our collective agreements.
in writing. the social democrats and the liberal group have wholeheartedly supported all the changes to the eu treaties. they have thus helped to give the eu institutions, including the ec court of justice, increasing power over the swedish labour market. the eu has thus become a threat to labour market rules developed through negotiation and legislation with strong roots in swedish society. the report mainly advocates changes to the posting of workers directive. it cannot therefore prevent the court of justice from continuing to intervene in the swedish labour market. firstly, the result is a compromise between the conservatives and the social democrats which has led to a number of flaws and contradictory statements. secondly, the primary eu law on the internal market (article 49) takes precedence over the provisions of the posting of workers directive. the court of justice can therefore still reach the same conclusion as in the laval case. the eu should not be given tasks that the member states can handle themselves, and that is where the labour market really comes in. the junilista therefore advocates a swedish derogation from eu labour market legislation to ensure that the ecj cannot in future govern the swedish labour market. we have nevertheless voted in favour of the report, because the aim is still to try to prevent the ec court from interfering in swedish collective agreements in the future. we have also supported the amendments which advocate more national self-determination in labour market matters, but we have of course voted against the rapporteur's praise of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - the report by mr jan andersson on the future of collective agreements in europe, following the laval judgment, was voted through. the social democrats have called for the current eu legislation, the so-called expatriation directive, to be scrapped to ensure that sweden can retain its collective agreements. on the other hand, i have been active both in the committee on the internal market and in the plenary to ensure that the issue is discussed primarily at the right level: the national level. the reason is that i think the social democratic strategy is ill-conceived. by repeatedly trying to raise the laval case to a european level, instead of solving it through swedish legislation, pressure is being put on for more common labour market legislation - which is what caused our current problems in the first place. when 27 member states are to agree, it is obvious that it is incredible that sweden in particular would pass legislation that suits us best - our model is after all quite unique in a european comparison. as mr andersson and parliament accepted my proposal not to scrap the posting of workers directive until national investigations had made it clear that it was really necessary, i thought i could still vote for the report.
in writing. −the report on collective agreements in the eu is an opinion without legal value. its intention is to strengthen the position of employees after the laval judgment, but unfortunately the content of the report does not live up to this intention by any means. it is wrong to renegotiate the eu's posting of workers directive as proposed in the report. this could lead to a deterioration of the situation of the workers. it is a risk we are not prepared to take because conservative forces dominate the whole eu system. the report lacks the text that the right to strike should be above the freedom of the market and that this should be included in a socially binding protocol to the lisbon treaty. the left group tabled several amendments to this effect, but they were rejected by a large majority. the swedish government has therefore decided to include in the treaty of lisbon a derogation which states that the effects of the laval judgment do not affect sweden. but this amendment from the left party was also rejected. the report instead praises the lisbon treaty, even though the treaty does not in any way change the law, but only consolidates it.
in writing. i voted against the report. however, additional regulation at eu level would likely strengthen the power of the ec court of justice. in my view, questions in the field of labour market policy should not be decided by the ec court of justice but by the riksdag and/or the social partners. i voted against the positive writing on the lisbon treaty and do not believe that the charter of rights should become legally binding as this risks in practice transferring legislative power from the riksdag to the ec court of justice.
in writing. − we fully support the respect for human rights and democratic principles, as outlined in the eu-vietnam cooperation agreement, and believe that there is a need for improvement by vietnam in this regard. such principles are universal, and should be applied equally in relation to all countries, inside and outside the eu. therefore, we are voting in favour of this resolution, despite the rather unbalanced way in which it is presented.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is a budget which is in some ways well-drafted. it is competent and reflective rapporteurs who deserve all the credit for their work within the framework we have. but of course all this is completely wrong, because what is the eu really going to do? here, at least two thirds of the money goes to agriculture and to structural funds, including waste and corruption. what the eu should be investing in, for example, large-scale research like the fusion project in barcelona, or common infrastructure like galileo or carbon capture and storage, etc., is small potatoes in this budget. here we find a globalisation fund which now provides eur 2.4 million to portugal and eur 10 million to spain. in both cases, the figures are fractions of the per mil­lion of these countries' gross domestic products. there is no reason for them to get money from other countries for this. we have a solidarity fund where 13 million euros go to france for the hurricane dean's ravages in martinique and guadalupe. this is again a fraction of the per millimeter of france's gross domestic product. this is completely unreasonable! we are talking about rich countries which can do without any difficulty, scraps from other member states. why is this done? i would argue that this is done because it is publicity money that is to serve as advertising for the eu. it has no other meaning. i guess we're in for a snowstorm. i repeat, we are on the wrong track. we are discussing a budget which is technically well-made but politically idiotic.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as rapporteur for the committee on budgets, i would like to thank mrs jutta haug for listening so closely to our priorities. they're really hitting the budget. to my swedish eu-sceptic colleague nils lundgren who spoke just now and who called the budget idiotic, i just want to say that it is not getting any better by him personally proposing the total closure of some of the best parts of the budget, such as the maritime safety authority and the youth in action programme. but the eu budget has problems. the triple crisis we are living in shows what it is all about. i'm talking about the climate crisis, the food crisis, the financial crisis. the committee on industry proposes at least a 5% increase in all operational appropriations relating to climate and energy, but this is still a drop in the bucket. as a socialist, i see the need for food aid, but the debate on funding shows the weaknesses of the budgetary system. it just goes to show how difficult it is to make more meaningful re-prioritizations. president nicolas sarkozy yesterday pointed out the need for joint action by europe's businesses in the wake of the crisis, but there are no such resources in the eu budget. the committee on industry points to the need for more funding for smes, but even that is a drop in the bucket. instead, we are forced to invent one temporary instrument after another. we have the flexibility instruments, the globalisation fund, the solidarity fund and the food facility and we will soon have a special mechanism to deal with the proceeds from the future auctioning of emission allowances. i believe that it is time for a more ambitious and forward-looking review of the longterm budget. we have the opportunity now to do a mid-term review to make sure it is better adapted to deal with the increasingly complex reality we live in and where radical action is required. (parliament adopted the resolution)
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, mr olli rehn, mrs pack, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs pack very much for the quality of her report and for what she has just said, which will allow me to be more brief on this difficult subject. as you know, the council is very attached to the european perspective of the western balkan countries, and i confirm this today. this movement in favour of european integration in the balkans was launched at the initiative of the french presidency, which remains strongly committed to this objective: it was launched in 2000 when the european union, for the first time, brought together all these countries at the zagreb summit and recognised their vocation to join the union. each of the balkan countries now has such a prospect, which guarantees the stability of the region and the political and economic development of each of the states, and this prospect is becoming more and more meaningful, and in particular with regard to bosnia and herzegovina, which is the country in the region which - should we not forget? - has suffered the most from the conflicts arising from the break-up of the former yugoslavia. but today - as you have said, madam rapporteur - this country is at a crossroads between a european perspective that will lead it to membership of the european union or to withdrawal into itself, based on nationalist rhetoric that looks backwards. the remarkable progress made in the first quarter of 2008 allowed the union to take the historic decision to sign this stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina. it was a sign that with will and determination, the country's political leaders were able to reach a consensus and undertake the necessary reforms. this is the determination that the council wanted to acknowledge when it signed the agreement last june, once the four conditions had been met. i would remind you of these four conditions: good general cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for yugoslavia, reform of public broadcasting, improvement of public administration and the launching of police reform. the signing of the agreement and the interim agreement on 16 june in luxembourg is a particularly important milestone in relations between the union and bosnia and herzegovina. this should give a new impetus to the country's progress towards the european union. it's an impulse that needs to be confirmed without delay. i would remind you that the interim agreement entered into force on 1 july last. it's a first step, but i'd say it's the end of the beginning! there's still a lot of work to be done! that is what we said to the leaders of that country, with commissioner olli rehn, who is here, when we met them on the sidelines of the un general assembly and at the troika meeting. in the key areas of the agreement and the european partnership, we must not only consolidate the progress achieved but, as you have stressed, madam rapporteur, accelerate the reforms. it is extremely important that the momentum of reforms on the rule of law, respect for democratic rules, also on police reform, be much stronger than it is today. let no one tell us that there are problems of division between the political leaders and public opinion in bosnia and herzegovina, because all the surveys show that the european aspirations of the people of bosnia and herzegovina are extremely strong. more than 80% of this population genuinely expect progress towards the european union! what are their political leaders waiting for to meet the legitimate aspirations of the people of bosnia and herzegovina? for our part, within the framework of the union, we are doing what we can to support that country economically and financially, to help it along the way, to help it progress along the road to security, to help it progress along the road to the modernisation of the police with the police missions we have set up, and also the military missions. the experience of recent accessions - and i will end here - shows that efforts on the european agenda are paying off. i would like the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to understand that the stabilisation and association agreement provides a solid basis and leverage for a deep commitment by this country. we will not give up on them, we have done our duty. it is up to the political leaders of this country to know what commitments they must make and assume, to ensure what is the only possible way, namely a permanent commitment to closer union with the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would firstly like to thank doris pack for her excellent report. i welcome the opportunity to discussbosnia and herzegovina with you today at a very crucial moment for the country and its european aspirations. the signature of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) last june was a significant step forward for bosnia and herzegovina. together with the start of the visa dialogue, it gave a clear signal to the people of that country that their future lies in the european union. the eu was able to initial the saa last december and sign it in june because the country’s political leaders pulled together and reached consensus on the main conditions, particularly on police reform. this proves that progress can be achieved and crises overcome when the political will exists, as mr jouyet rightly pointed out. however, this consensus has since collapsed and reforms have been halted. nationalist rhetoric ahead of the local elections in october was one factor in this deterioration. yet the country’s political problems run much deeper than that. the lack of a common vision among the country’s leaders about its future and the absence of consensus on eu reforms seriously harm its european prospects. there is also open disagreement on most political questions, while there is no sense of urgency or responsibility to overcome this political stalemate. i expressed my serious concern to the presidency of the country during my visit to sarajevo a few days ago. i underlined that bosnia and herzegovina now needs to put eu-related reforms at the top of its political agenda and address the priorities of the european partnership, including state- and institution-building. your resolution sends a strong signal to the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to get on with the reforms and to get their country back on the road to europe. likewise, bosnia and herzegovina must be able to speak with one voice to advance in european integration. another litmus test of the country’s ability to deliver on eu integration is the census. from an eu perspective – as we all know – census data are vital for social and economic planning and development and for most community policies. the commission will offer its assessment on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina in the progress report on 5november. like you, we shall alsopoint out the fact that the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina can either continue to quarrel and fall behind their neighbours, or get on with reform and move forward towards the eu. your resolution underlines that closing down the office of the high representative (ohr) and strengthening the role of the european union should remain our ultimate objective. i agree. the future of the ohr is a matter for the peace implementation council to decide, but it is clearly in the interest of bosnia and herzegovina to reach a point where the ohr will no longer be needed, thus paving the way for a stronger eu presence and for realising the eu perspective of the country. in other words, as we move into the next phase of our relations, bosnia and herzegovina itself must assume full ownership of the reform process that underpins its eu perspective. the signature of the saa this summer provided an opportunity that should not be wasted. the challenge for bosnia and herzegovina’s leaders is to achieve a degree of political consensus such as has delivered progress on eu integration elsewhere in the western balkans region. they have done it before so they can do it again. i hope our messages will now be heard.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in june this year, bosnia and herzegovina signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu. the country thus made a steady step forward on its path towards the eu, but the work is far from complete. the eu's commitment cannot and should not be reduced by the belief that everything will now be arranged automatically. a whole range of challenges remains. the constitutional reform has not been implemented. the issue of state property in the brčko districts is still unresolved. there are clearly wide differences of opinion on when and how the office of the high representative should be closed, both within bosnia itself and within the international community. it is my firm opinion that the closure of this office cannot be an end in itself. the aim is, however, to meet the requirements and conditions imposed on bosnia by the peace implementation council, so as to enable the office of the high representative to be transformed into the office of the eu special representative. in this respect, as in a number of other challenges facing bosnia, the unity of the international community is vital. to think that the local parties in bosnia can themselves agree on, say, constitutional reforms is naive, i would say downright dangerous. the new constitution must lead to a strong united state if the country is to continue to move closer to the eu. but the political dialogue in bosnia does not indicate any interest in achieving this. equally dangerous is the belief that the international community's commitment can diminish now that the country has made some progress and the international military presence is steadily decreasing. on the contrary, it is now the eu itself that is becoming even more accountable.some measures, such as making it easier for people to travel and study abroad, and helping to develop democracy and implement the necessary reforms, are just a few examples of other areas where the eu can and should be more active. our commitment and the way we handle the situation in bosnia in the coming months and years will be decisive, not only for the future and security of bosnia but for the whole region.
for the ind/dem group. madam president! together with volvo and ikea, the institution we call the ombudsman is my country's most well-known contribution to the world community. it is a very important institutional innovation, for democracy in general and for the eu institutions in particular. why would you do that? yes, because an ombudsman is supposed to ensure that citizens can assert their rights in political and bureaucratic structures that are becoming increasingly complex and therefore opaque. nowhere in the democratic world is complexity and opacity more dominant than in the byzantine power structure that the eu has established and is constantly building on. i rarely feel enthusiastic about the reports presented here in the european parliament. when i do, it is on reports on the internal market or on some environmental issue. the report by mrs dushana zdravkova is another exception. here, however, the image emerges that the ombudsman is working quite effectively to strengthen the individual citizens against the expanding byzantine empire. i am thinking of information to the public through a well-updated website, information sheets, networks with national and regional ombudsmen, conferences and, not least, meetings and other contacts with the eurocrats in the system to make them see that they are there for the citizens and not the other way around. at the same time, it is sad that the european power elite is running a european project that most people associate with the bad side of byzantium, the unmanageable bureaucracy. in the meantime, and pending a popular reaction to this development, we in the european parliament should strengthen the ombudsman. we should therefore vote in favour of the report by mrs dushana zdravkova and particularly welcome the requirement that the ombudsman should have full access to eu documents during his inquiries.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the eu budget be limited to 1.00% of the average gnp of the member states. we have therefore voted against all the increases proposed by the european parliament, while junilista welcomed the few savings proposed by the committee on budgets or by individual members in the form of amendments. there are other unfortunate budget lines, but junilista particularly regrets the high level of support for the eu's agricultural policy, the cohesion fund, the fisheries sector and the budget lines which support various forms of information campaigns. the junilist also believes that the constant travel of the european parliament between strasbourg and brussels must be remedied and that the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions should be abolished.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'smoking' in the wording of the directive. we also consider it a scandal that the eu budget should be used to support bullfighting, a tradition which we do not consider to be compatible with modern values and animal rights. we also regret that export subsidies of all kinds and milk quotas are still to be part of the eu budget. we voted against all these proposals. we also want to make clear why we voted against the proposal for a pilot project in favour of children and children's rights. that is because this proposal was not included in the compromise between the political groups on pilot projects, and in order not to jeopardise this delicate compromise, we were unfortunately unable to support the proposal, the content of which we fully support. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) finally, we are very disappointed that the amendments aimed at strengthening trade union cooperation and consultation between industry and trade unions were not adopted in plenary.
in writing. −we support the basic principles of the eu budget for 2009 and want to emphasise that it should give citizens good value for money. the framework set in the preliminary draft budget should be respected and we therefore welcome the fact that the budget will remain within this framework with a good margin. we want to cut agricultural and regional aid drastically and reduce the overall budget. we want to use the common money more for research and development, growth, infrastructure and security.
in writing. i abstained because a large part of the result is a disappointment. for example, it is crazy that the eu should finance aid to tobacco producers, while we are spending a lot of money on public health campaigns and anti-smoking campaigns in the eu. it is also a scandal that the eu budget should be used to support bullfighting, a tradition which i do not consider compatible with modern values and animal rights. i also regret that export aid of all kinds still has to be part of the eu budget and that the amendments aimed at strengthening trade union cooperation and consultation between industry and trade union organisations were not adopted by parliament.
in writing. −as always when voting on a budget the size of the eu, there are some details on which to comment. in the case of the eu, of course, the agricultural policy is the most prominent. it may therefore seem strange to vote for a budget where the dominant budget line is one that one would wish was one of the smaller ones - if any. at the same time, the big picture must be seen, and the good news is the growing awareness that much more resources must be devoted to what are really common tasks - in this case the climate. my vote should therefore be interpreted in the light of the fact that this year's draft budget is a 'case for progress', not as an uncritical endorsement of the overall content. two amendments to the voting record, including the introduction of tobacco subsidies.
in writing. −the report calls for increased interinstitutional cooperation through a general expansion of services within the eu institutions. the rapporteur believes that this will improve efficiency. for example, it is proposed to increase the staff resources of the political groups by 53 posts. in addition, two additional posts are being created in addition to the new posts included in the draft budget. junilista is very much in favour of making the eu system more efficient, but does not think that this is automatically achieved by more services! in principle, we are against an expansion, both of the eu budget and of more services, as we believe that this means bureaucratization and less national self-determination. as regards more posts in the political groups, we argue that the benefits of this will primarily be enjoyed by the large groups, which will make it difficult for other groups to pursue their own policies. in addition, the european parliament has already introduced eu grants to specific 'eu parties' and to political party foundations linked to them. we believe that this has done enough to benefit the major established political parties and their groups in the european parliament at the expense of the taxpayers. the junilista has therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i have opposed the proposal since it was tabled in parliament, because i believe that the chicago convention, which today regulates the basic rules on air traffic charges, should continue to have the same significance for the member states. there is no need to change rules which are generally accepted and can therefore be regulated by the member states alone. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i believe, however, that there is reason to be sceptical about the interpretation of binding community law by the court of justice. i am concerned about the reluctance to take account of national rules on certain matters. i believe that there must continue to be grounds for questioning the role of the court of justice, not least in this matter.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this resolution which calls for the problems of body scanning to be investigated before decisions are taken. the resolution could have gone further, however. i am opposed in principle to the use of body scans, which is an excessive restriction of privacy and disproportionate to the desired outcome. today's systems are already borderline privacy-invasive and sufficiently secure.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. if we had a common literary reference framework in europe, i would start my speech with a quote from a great swedish poet: "you drown the voice of flattery: hear the truth once". the verse pattern is alexandrin with cesure. the two rapporteurs consider that monetary union has been a success. in doing so, they contribute to the myth-building around the euro that is not rooted in western critical thinking. the truth about the euro is different. first, its first decade has brought enormous costs in terms of lower growth and higher unemployment. secondly, monetary union has not been tested in the face of adverse weather until now. the research suggests that the impact on the volume of external trade could be quite large, perhaps even 3 to 4% of gdp. however, it turns out that the socioeconomic gains from this trade increase are very modest, perhaps 3 to 5 per cent of gdp, as a one-off gain. this negligible increase in prosperity has been achieved at the cost of the euro countries' inability to pursue an independent monetary and fiscal policy. germany entered this monetary union with a heavily overvalued currency and has lived with high interest rates and too tight fiscal policies. the cost has been enormous, and how are you doing now? the story that has been put together is that the eurozone countries should have come together forcefully and led the fight against the financial crisis. as everyone knows, this is a myth. it was the uk and gordon brown - who were outside the monetary union - who took the initiative. the eurozone followed suit.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to begin by warmly congratulating a mature ten-year-old and thanking both rapporteurs for an excellent report. the past few months have shown the strength of the euro. few people thought ten years ago that the euro would be such a formidable success. some countries, including my own, were anxiously waiting outside. some critics probably had in mind that the euro will not pass the test, as nils lundgren says. but he and the other accidental shells have been miscalculated. after months of financial turmoil, it is clear that only economic cooperation with the euro as the backbone can provide the security that the current global economic system requires. the fact that joint actions have led to a market clearing is proof of the strength of euro-cooperation. the euro should become the currency of europe. if that vision is to become reality, the already stringent convergence criteria should not be made even stricter. i therefore believe that it is wrong to make euro membership an exclusive club with higher entry requirements, as one of the amendments calls for. let me say a few words about the swedish outcast. for sweden, which has only one leg in european cooperation but is still outside the euro area, the advantages and disadvantages are now more evident than ever, and hopefully also for nils lundgren. when the last financial crisis hit sweden in 1992, we could ultimately do nothing but let the krona fall. the lessons learned then led us to decide to become part of the european family. the swedish krona has lost value against the euro over the past year. in dealing with the financial crisis, sweden is outside both the protection afforded by the euro and the decisions that crisis management within the eurogroup decides on and requires. it is now as small countries that sweden should realise the value of a single currency. the stability offered by the euro provides the long-term prospects that are important for a country as export-dependent as sweden. sweden has a good economic development, it is true, but membership of the euro would have given us more stability in monetary policy and created more jobs, a more stable economy and stronger exports. the swedish parties should therefore be prepared to reconsider their passive attitude towards the euro as the currency of sweden. sweden should become a full member of the european union. it is therefore time that we in my country seriously began to discuss a new referendum. i myself hope for swedish membership within five years.
this report is a tribute to the emu. i wonder: what's there to celebrate? the eurozone is in recession and unemployment is rising sharply. several of the large emu countries no longer meet the basic economic requirements for membership. just goes to show how rigid the project is. five years ago, the swedish people voted against emu. however, on several occasions i have heard the commission say that sooner or later sweden must join emu. i would therefore ask the commission to clarify this once and for all. should sweden join the emu? the emu needs to be fundamentally reformed. a clear objective for the central bank to combat unemployment should be inscribed. greater financial flexibility should be allowed. that would be some significant steps forward.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank edith bauer for a very good and important report which i fully support. secondly, a colleague of mine recently spoke of women as weak. then i'll say that women are not weak. on the other hand, it is the patriarchal structures of society that make women weak. the eu's equal pay directive has been in place for 30 years. despite this, women are still not as valuable as men. neither in terms of salaries nor influence both in society and in working life. although women generally have higher education, they earn on average 15 percent less than men for the same or similar work. it is therefore clear that improving existing legislation is not enough to solve wage discrimination. the gender pay gap is, in the final analysis, just one more sign of the continuing discrimination against women in all fields. it is not enough that we have lower pay for equal work, we are very often referred to atypical jobs, part-time jobs, etc. this wage discrimination continues to affect women for the rest of their lives, because we too often have worse pension conditions and conditions as we age. it is time we all worked together to put an end to this discrimination against women!
for the alde group. mr president, commissioner and astrid lulling. so we meet again on this issue. it is not the first time that lulling and i have had a disagreement about the way in which excise duties should be set up in europe. but i think this is the first time i've ever felt like i'm the one with the majority on my side. it's dangerous to predict things, but we'll see how it goes. on the new technological system, emcs, we are in complete agreement. it is on the sensitive issue of import quotas that opinions are seriously divided. if the committee's line is upheld, parliament has shown its commitment to free movement in europe and its commitment to a sound public health policy. as always with taxation, the balance must be struck between what should remain the competence of a member state and what is a common responsibility. if we get the committee's proposal through, this means that the european parliament will say that tobacco and alcohol are not just like other goods, as we heard earlier here, and must be treated differently. it is not revolutionary, as many have been saying for a long time. by deciding to halve the indicative entry levels while maintaining the principle of a limit value, we are giving member states a lot of leeway to pursue their own policies while at the same time making it easier for businesses and individuals to trade across borders. or to put it more simply: sweden is given room to prioritise public health issues while lulling's luxembourg can continue its well-established low-tax policy. the single market cannot be built on the model of alcohol tourism. the problem of alcohol and its consequences is not a swedish problem, as i am sometimes told. the last time we heard calls for strong action against the drinking industry was in the united kingdom, something that perhaps our british colleagues should also consider. i think it is high time that the european parliament took a more sensible view of these issues and gave the member states the opportunity to act in the field of public health.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? the single market is a very important part of european cooperation, but for many consumers it is only a vague expression. regardless of how well we know its meaning, rules and regulations, we are all consumers who are all affected by the way the internal market works. i have always maintained that if we have satisfied and secure european consumers, we also have an efficient and thriving internal market. to win this trust, we must make the internal market more efficient and responsive to citizens' expectations and concerns. this does not necessarily mean more or stricter eu legislation and rules. information, training and self-regulation can often be a more appropriate and effective solution. whatever the solution, the aim must always be to ensure that consumers' rights are safeguarded, so that they can make good and informed decisions. this is of course also good for the market itself. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the impact of the single market on the consumer market. we believe that it can be an important tool for the future development of consumer policy. the single market covers some 500 million consumers and has a wide range of goods and services. it is of course impossible to examine in detail all aspects of the internal market. it is therefore important to use analytical resources where they are really needed most. i welcome the five areas on which the commission has focused: complaints, price level, satisfaction, exchange and security. these five main indicators are relevant and useful, although there is a need to develop, improve and possibly introduce new categories over time. i would also like to stress the importance of raising awareness of the scoreboard among consumers themselves and the general public. therefore, it is important that it be written in easy-to-understand language. in addition, the scoreboard should be visible on relevant webpages. finally, i would say that it will take time to develop the scoreboard, partly because we have come so far in different member states in terms of consumer policy and consumer protection, but also because we are different, have different cultures and different traditions. we have to be patient, we have to give this consumer scoreboard time. i would also like to thank commissioner meglena kuneva and her secretariat, as well as my own secretariat, for their very good cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the importance of fruits and vegetables to man is hardly news, much less that they are important foods for children. the fact that children are served fruit at school is a positive. it is good for your health and provides a much-needed boost of energy. but what does the proposal we are debating mean? it is a purely propaganda proposal on the part of the eu. the aim of this initiative is to win cheap political points while at the same time probably telling the children about the excellence of the eu. the committee on agriculture has put forward absurd proposals, including the presentation of european fruit as being better than any other fruit. only eu fruit, such as bananas from peripheral areas, shall be served. this is pure protectionism. children will be taught that the eu is good and that the fruit of the eu is even better. the commission and the european parliament should be ashamed of themselves.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'excise' in the definition of excise duty. the reduction (a halving of previous indicative reference levels) is a step in the right direction towards a more responsible policy that takes public health seriously. we would point out, however, that we regard this as merely a first step towards a more ambitious policy in this area. we are also pleased that amendments nos 60 and 68 were rejected. this means that excise duties will continue to be levied in the country of destination.
in writing. - the junilist has voted in favour of the report, as we believe that it offers some opportunity to reconcile the requirements of national health policy with the aspirations of a free internal market. we have, however, voted against certain proposals with strong federalist overtones. junilistan considers it very important that, for example, swedish alcohol policy can be conducted in accordance with the values and decisions of the swedish parliament. this requires payment of excise duty in the recipient country for the distance sale of, for example, alcohol. this would not be the case if the amendments were adopted. on the contrary, it would mean, inter alia, that the provisions on acquisitions by individuals would be extended to cover also distance traders whose excise duty is paid in the member state in which the acquisition was made. as the cost of national public health problems such as alcohol and tobacco-related harm is largely borne by national tax revenues, the proposal for excise duty exemption from distance sales would hamper the ability of the public sector to deal effectively with public health problems. the problem also remains from a competitive point of view, since as a distance seller you can offer the same product as national operators, but much cheaper, only by avoiding the payment of excise duty in the same country. junilistan is in favour of competition, but believes that operators should compete on equal terms.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the context of the directive. the result of today's vote on the lulling report on the general rules for excise duties means that the guidelines for the import quotas for alcohol will be cut in half. in addition, the scope for duty-free sales is limited to ports and airports. the report also states that there are no obstacles to, for example, charging swedish excise duty on goods ordered from another eu country via the internet. the european parliament is only consultative on this matter, but today's decision is nevertheless an important milestone.
in writing. - there's no doubt that kids are good at eating fruit. apples, bananas and oranges prevent obesity and keep us healthy. in a way, it is therefore understandable that many today voted in favour of a proposal in the european parliament to subsidize schoolchildren's fruit in the eu. the problem is that responsibility for our fruit consumption does not belong at eu level. it is primarily the parents' job to teach their children good eating habits. the secondary responsibility lies with the municipalities and the thirdary responsibility lies with the state. as a federalist, i want decisions to be made as close to the citizens as possible. the eu wants that too. article 5 of the ec treaty provides that decisions which are better taken at a lower level are also to be taken at that level. that is why i voted against parliament's proposal to increase the fruit budget from eur 90 million to eur 500 million. in the eu, we will work for lower emissions, against crime and for increased mobility. more fruit, better exercise and less candy are issues that are being handled much better by schools, parents and local politicians.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables is a very good one. the commission is also proposing to increase the ceiling on expenditure from eur 90 million to eur 500 million at the expense of the taxpayer. the committee stresses that only fruit originating in the community is covered. fruit of other origin is of no importance. the committee's proposal is ridiculous, as it suggests that the big brother should distribute seasonal fruit and encourage a wide variety of fruit so that 'children can discover different flavors'. the european parliament is once again taking up education policy. member states shall 'pedagogically integrate these measures into the school curriculum on nutrition and health'. the majority of this parliament has a distorted view of the cap. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. thankfully, the european parliament has no co-decision power in these areas and should remain so.
in writing. in sweden, we tell our children that fruit is nature's own candy. i myself like fruit very much and i think it would be good if the children of europe ate a lot of these foods. i share the rapporteur's views on this. that said, the responsibility for ensuring that our schoolchildren get enough apples and bananas must rest with the parents of the children and possibly the municipalities where the schools are located. the european union shall not act as a supranational fruit police. instead, let us concentrate our energies and resources on more urgent tasks.
in writing. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the euro area. we welcome the emphasis on the social aspects of cooperation and the emphasis on growth problems. at the same time, we do not support paragraph 40 of the report, which states that non-euro area member states which meet the maastricht criteria and which do not have a derogation in the treaty should introduce the single currency at the earliest opportunity. we believe that this is beyond the powers of parliament to say. we respect the decision taken by the swedish people in a referendum and would like to stress that this is a matter to be dealt with in the respective member states.
in writing. − gender pay gaps are a major problem and something that individual employers and social partners have a particular responsibility to combat. this type of discrimination is contrary to fundamental provisions of the treaty and employers who fail to take this responsibility are already being prosecuted for it in court. however, it is contrary to our fundamental view of the swedish labour market and the responsibility of the parties, as well as current legislation, to create new legal instruments to control wage formation at eu level or through state wage policy. training for employment is not and should not be an eu competence. we have heard our demand to remove references to new legal instruments to regulate wage formation at eu level, and we have therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole. unfortunately, the report still contains a number of undesirable details, such as the proposal for 'one day for equal pay'. the recurring habit of parliament to demand the announcement of days, weeks and years for various events is a poster policy which makes no difference in substance. on the contrary, it tends to make the issue appear banal and frivolous.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. increasing gender equality in the labour market, reducing the gender pay gap and equal pensions are important objectives in a just society. thus, the ideas of more statistics, revised legislation and educational efforts to counter slantrian views in society about gender are urgent. however, junilista is critical of the eu's seemingly insatiable need to integrate more and more policy areas into its remit. our basic view is that issues relating to the labour market system should be dealt with primarily by the individual member states and not raised at eu level.
in writing. - we have chosen to abstain because we believe that it is wrong in principle to prejudge the legislative process currently under way on these very issues in an own-initiative report;
in writing. − as long as fossil fuels are necessary to meet the eu's energy needs, it is important to support initiatives aimed at mitigating environmental impacts, for example through ccs technology. however, we believe that the proceeds from the auctioning of allowances should go to the member states, not be earmarked for different projects. otherwise, the emissions trading system risks becoming inefficient and top-down.
madam president, a crisis should not only be a time for action but also for reflection. getting the climate package together will not only save the climate – saving us from disasters and epidemics and avoiding costs – but is also the best preparation for times to come. in a recession we must prepare for the time afterwards and for new markets. i think that there is a danger today of us throwing good money after bad. when we are over this, will consumers really want to buy a big high-consumption car, or will they want a small, smart car? i once had a professor in my student days who said: ‘when in doubt, leave it out’. what we need instead is a green new deal for investments, innovation research and energy smart technology, including in cars. we need a green new deal for new jobs and new wealth in a sustainable way. the alde group will work for an open, green, safe and entrepreneurial europe, and in these areas we will support the commission’s work programme.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good to have a joint debate on the economic crisis, the downturn in the real economy and the commission's work programme. those questions are connected. it is also good that the commission is proposing coordinated action. however, i do not think that this is reflected in the work programme. the council has been vocal about the need to curb environmental investments and ambitions. i certainly do not share that view. i do not share the view, as some others do, that we must now hold back in the social sphere. on the contrary, i think so. what we need is investment in research and development, new environmental technologies and new infrastructure that is much more environmentally friendly than the infrastructure we have today. we need to train the workforce and ensure that young people get the right education, so that we maintain our competitiveness but also empower individuals for the future. if i go to the work programme and look at the social field, this is not a commission which has given priority to the social field. let me ask you two questions. we have listened to poul rasmussen, and now i think we should also be listened to in the social field. the report i was responsible for dealt with equal treatment in the labour market within the eu and the right to take action for equal treatment. the commission must now respond with concrete measures for equal treatment in the eu labour market through changes to the posting directive and through a social protocol. that's one thing. the second is what is happening in the field of health and safety at work, where we are seeing an increase in the number of accidents, at least in some member states, across the eu because of the low priority given to this area. the commission must also respond to this by linking long-term sustainable development: economic, environmental and social.
madam president, we are in the midst of a deep financial crisis that is unique from very many perspectives. it is unique because it is the first global financial crisis we have seen and we are also in a recession in the world economy. but it might be good to have some sort of perspective on the events and the developments we are going through, because we have also seen 25 years of unprecedented and unique global economic growth that has made it possible for more than two billion people to leave poverty. i must say i have heard very little of this from that part of the chamber here tonight when they are saying that the open economy has failed. is it a failure that two billion people have left poverty? of course not. but we do see a new structure in the global economy today, and the fact that the meeting in washington was a g20 meeting and not a g7 meeting is an expression of the new reality we are living in. i think that is good, because the whole dominance of the transatlantic economy is not there any more. in general, that is a good thing because it means that other parts of the world have been able to develop prosperity. it has, during this period, created imbalances: huge surpluses in countries such as china, and huge deficits in countries such as the us, coupled with a unique and artificially low interest rate in the us economy which has increased the credit volume more than ever. it is interesting to note that we have had the same debate in this chamber with colleagues from that side calling for lowering interest rates even further. had we done so, the problems in europe would have been even bigger than they are. now we need to see to it that we can restructure and recover the global economy, and i think that the european union has an important and crucial role to play in that. we need to make sure that we do what was said at the washington meeting, secure free trade and open markets and say ‘no’ to protectionism, because that would hinder recovery more than anything else. we need to make sure that the regulatory framework of the global financial markets catches up with the reality of how the world economy looks today. that is our task, and we must take a lead in that and develop prosperity even more.
madam president, i think adam smith has been very successful, especially in ireland! i think we are aware of the consequences there. fru talman, fru kommissionär! jag tycker att det viktigt att eu och världen nu genom g20-mötet har agerat och sagt sig fortsatt vilja agera gemensamt. det är något nytt i världspolitiken. ett europeiskt och globalt system för tillsyn är andra viktiga steg. låt oss då se till att vi skapar flexibla regler för framtiden, inte för att lösa gårdagens problem. jag skulle i all ödmjukhet vilja utfärda tre varningar. en varning för överreglering som ytterligare kan bromsa världsekonomin. en varning för stora statstödspaket för att rädda industrier i kris – vi har några exempel på hemmaplan i sverige, som fru kommissionär väl vet. en varning för protektionism och stängda gränser – låt oss inte hamna i en 1930-tals kris.
president of the council. - madam president, in reply to mr genscher, i do not have the exact figure in mind. the orders of magnitude i am aware of are quite considerable and the excesses linked to securitisation, which have come in particular from across the atlantic and have spread to europe, are higher than the gnp of many member states, and even of the union. it's absolutely a lot. that's all i can tell you. we are therefore facing a destabilising shock linked to securitisation, which is of a magnitude never seen before. that is what i can tell you today. in reply to mrs doyle, i hope that here, as on other subjects, we are not totally isolated and that as a presidency we are confident. financial regulation is not an easy subject, dear mrs doyle, but i think we are making progress. we have had discussions in this house this afternoon with the president of the european commission, and we are relatively confident about the action plan as defined by the european council and as agreed by europe as a whole at the informal meeting of heads of state and government, and as guided by the work of the g20 this weekend in washington. there are no more arguments, i was going to say, so theoretical. we have to deal with regulatory loopholes. it is not because of the need for regulation, nor because of the taste for it, but some of it must be adapted and we must still ensure that we have a system which is safe and transparent for savers and investors. i think everyone agrees with us on that. after that, it's all about adjustment.
president of the council. - madam president, these are serious issues raised by mrs goudin and mrs dahl. i can assure them, and assure your assembly, that the operations of the european union are conducted in accordance with the conventions on the protection of human rights and international law. this principle is clearly specified in all planning documents approved by the council and reflected in the individual instructions given to the forces on the move. it's what we call soldier's bodies in english. in the event that certain individuals deployed in foreign security and defence policy operations deviate from their obligations, disciplinary and judicial action shall be the responsibility of the member states. all the member states are parties to conventions on the protection of human rights. in the case in point, which is the subject of this question, let me take off my hat as president of the council and say this: in the interests of transparency, the french authorities, after having been in contact with the swedish authorities, have carried out a thorough investigation. this investigation was carried out by the inspectorate of forces in action and defence of the territory in respect of the french authorities. this investigation showed that the young man who was captured by french forces on 13 july 2003 during operation artemis in the democratic republic of congo was not tortured or abused. that is why the serious accusations against the french and swedish forces are unfounded.
i was gonna say, "i'm not a cop. this young man has disappeared. how can you prove that nothing happened to him?
for the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear commissioner! when i read about the balance of payments problem, which we are discussing here, i felt like marcel proust with the madeleine cake, "a la recherche du temps perdu". it's a smell of the '50s and '60s over the problem. balance of payments problems? this is something we should be allocating 25 billion euros to. why in god's name? are we doing that today? this is for those countries, the poor countries, i understand, which are in the eu but not in the monetary union and which may then have to be saved from a fate worse than death, balance of payments problems. this is a european union-created problem. what we're talking about here doesn't really exist anymore. my own country sweden is a country that is part of the eu, that is loyal and implements everything that is decided there much better than most other countries, but we are not with the monetary union. i say, that's reasonable. but if there were problems in sweden, would we have balance of payments problems? the answer is, of course, no. of course, one could imagine that sweden would start to neglect its economy, get a much higher rate of inflation and wage growth than other countries. what happens then, we get balance of payments problems? no, then the swedish krona will sink to compensate for this. otherwise, nothing happens at all. this is also true of other countries in the same situation, such as the united kingdom. what's the problem? yes, the problem is whether those countries which are in the european union - which they should be - but are not in the monetary union - which they should not be - should be forced, as you have suggested, to maintain a fixed exchange rate against the euro. the worst of all worlds: being forced to maintain a fixed exchange rate with its main trading partners. it is clear that if you mismanage your economy, have higher inflation or suffer structural setbacks in your main export industry, you will have reduced exports and increased imports. the question suddenly becomes: how will this be financed? but this is a completely artificial situation. it is totally out of date for countries not in a monetary union to choose to maintain an exchange rate and then have to be bailed out by the international monetary fund or by the eu or by someone else. why in god's name would you do this? it is a completely outdated approach to economic policy. either you join a monetary union - sometimes that may be true, i agree - or you stay out, stand on your own two feet, have your own independent monetary policy and manage your own affairs. if you're careful, nothing happens. if you're not careful, the currency goes down to compensate. it's not very dangerous, this one, either. i would therefore point out that when we are discussing here whether to allocate 25 billion euros to this purpose, it is an objective that is really not needed at all. it is a problem which we ourselves are creating, or rather you are creating. stop this. countries that are members of the eu but not of the monetary union must maintain a floating exchange rate regime. that'll take care of the problem.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it's jobs around europe that matter now. what we see in the automotive industry is an industrial challenge that also affects other parts of the european economy. what cannot happen now is that we have state aid which undermines employment in companies in one country but favours it in another. we cannot have state aid which disadvantages industry in one area and benefits it in another. because then unemployment and job losses will gradually spread across europe. we cannot have state aid that makes it difficult for viable companies to survive and that maintains companies that are no longer viable. the problem of the automotive industry is a long-term problem, we have seen more clearly now in the financial crisis, but we have seen around the world for a long time huge losses and declining demand, but also overcapacity. what is important now is to ensure that we have a demand in europe first. it is about tax cuts, about the possibility for european households to demand the products produced here. it is about ensuring that european industry can be a leader in technology and development in one area after another. in the field of environment as well as in the field of energy. that's where public efforts should go. but it is also about opening up the european automobile industry to be an international player. it is a question of ensuring that we can have open free trade where the european car industry has access to world markets. it is important to remember that those who are today making it difficult for free trade and for the success of the doha round are in fact stopping the european automotive industry from growing in the large markets of the future.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. one example is the deterioration of the change in direct rural development support. the majority agreed to a reduction of direct payments of only 6% for 2009 and 2010. the commission had proposed to reduce the aid by 7% in 2009 and 9% in 2010. i'd like to see more of it myself. in addition, the threshold for converting direct payments into rural development support was raised. the original proposal provided for such conversion to apply to grants from eur 5 000 per year. now the majority chose to raise the ceiling to eur 10 000. this will reduce the proportion of passive agricultural support that is converted into active support for rural development. the money would do more good if it were used to start rural businesses than to produce crops that are already producing good yields.
in writing. - the european parliament's committee on agriculture has, as usual, chosen a different path from that of the commission. instead of reforming the cap, it wants to increase subsidies and ensure that taxpayers increase their financial contributions. the junilista is firmly in favour of abolishing export refunds on agricultural products and has voted in favour of the proposals which advocated it. we believe that the eu is behaving very badly in the outside world when agricultural products are dumped in poor countries without regard for the social consequences. the junilists want to abolish the common agricultural policy and we note that it is fortunate that the european parliament does not have a vote on the eu's agricultural policy, because then the union would fall into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to all the different groups in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - i vote in favour of rejecting the report and referring it back to committee because it has further weakened the reforms proposed by the commission, which were already too small and too slow.
in writing. - the eu's enormous support for indigenous agriculture is immoral and directly harmful. the aid is detrimental to global competition, which we know is a prerequisite for prosperity, it is defending the necessary reforms in the agricultural sector and it is reducing the supply for us consumers. the commission's proposal is important for further liberalisation in line with the 2003 reforms. i cannot therefore vote for the reports by mr santos which would soften the commission's proposal to a large extent.
in writing. − the commission's proposal to phase out milk quotas was sealed by a call for a review as early as 2010. in addition, the majority pushed through the creation of a special milk fund. i think that the report could have been better if we had passed a number of amendments to increase market adjustment, such as a greater increase in milk quotas. unfortunately, none of this was adopted, which is why i voted against the report.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment from harmful substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, and the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents. the proposal also involves a shift of money from direct support for agricultural production to rural development, focusing on the four priority areas of climate change, renewable energy, water management and biodiversity. since the european parliament wanted to see fewer reforms and a slower pace of change, we chose to support the original proposals of the european commission and vote against the changes of the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. frontex, among others, is turning people who are most vulnerable away from the eu, and the eu is building impenetrable walls for many who are in need of protection. at the same time, the 'blue card' now proposes to make a special entrance for certain people, a special entrance for highly skilled workers, with very high requirements for the level of education and professional experience of the persons and with a minimum wage which in sweden, for example, must be at least sek 43 000 or eur 4 300 per month. ordinary workers or people with protection needs don't bother. but highly educated people - whom the third world so badly needs to improve the situation in their home countries - are welcome. i for one welcome openness and immigration, but i assume that no one is discriminated against on the basis of their country of origin or educational level.
one of the arguments put forward for why the eu is not an attractive target for skilled labour immigration is the fact that there are different rules for entry and residence in the member states. the report's explanatory statement also states that the different rules in the member states lead to competition between the member states themselves. it's being presented as something negative. i would say that this is precisely what made europe successful - that the system was not put together in the same way, but that different solutions were allowed to compete with each other. we can see that some countries have done better, for example sweden. the swedish government has invested heavily in education and language training, which has made sweden a highly competitive country with companies such as ericsson, volvo and ikea. the problem of the lack of competitiveness of many member states is rather that the union has been characterised by protectionism and subsidies to sectors which are far from competitive. the commission has been busy with artificial respiration instead of structural change.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by thanking rapporteur klamt and the shadow rapporteurs for an interesting report. as a nordic social democrat, i had hoped that you would support the idea that collective agreements should also apply to eu blue cards. i think it will be necessary, but i am not too worried that it will not be implemented. but parliament should have gone first. the good thing now is that we are getting a clear indication that employers who break the rules and do not check whether they are hiring illegal workers will be criminalised, but may also be obliged to correct incorrect pay, etc. afterwards. it is also good that the third-country national can return during this period and then come back to the eu. we have shown that we take seriously the concerns of third countries about the flight of competence. i also welcome and support the decision that member states should take account of their own national and regional labour markets. it shows that those who are already in our home countries and who are unemployed are going to get jobs first. this is particularly important now that unemployment is rising in the wake of the financial crisis, especially as xenophobia threatens democracy in many of our member states.
for the pse group. president. - the debate is closed. this development can be described as dramatic, with fewer people working and more people getting older. at the same time, it's a positive development that we actually get healthier later in life. but it presents us with a host of challenges. let me describe some of them. fewer babies are born today than in the past. at the same time, it is very different in different member states. we can see that in the member states where systems have been set up to enable parents to combine work and parenting, both men and women in the family, we have a better development. we must learn from each other in this area. although we are getting older, the long-term trend is that working lives are getting shorter. both by entering later, but we have also departed from the last few years, when we had a slightly more positive development worked shorter. we must do something about this at both ends, to extend working life and, above all, to find flexible solutions before we leave the labour market. we have talked about the 'blue card' today, but we must ensure that all the people who have come to us from other parts of the world, where there is high unemployment today, are integrated and enter the labour market, as well as people with disabilities and others. we will do all this within the framework of the lisbon process, so that we can meet these challenges in the long term.
i should like to begin by thanking the court of auditors for a good and unusually easy-to-understand report, which will probably be a good basis for our further work in the committee on budgetary control. i was going to stick to the independent eu authorities, because i am their rapporteur. there are some institutions that are growing in numbers, in responsibilities and in the amount of money they have to move around with. i would therefore argue that the scrutiny of the same is also becoming increasingly important. in my years in the european parliament we have every year drawn attention to the problems of the independent authorities with planning, budget implementation, public procurement, reporting, etc. and unfortunately it seems that we have reason to do the same again this year. so is the problem of craving more and more money even though you had trouble spending it in previous years. i think this raises a number of serious questions, because it seems to be a recurring problem. at least it raises questions of responsibility and governance in my mind. that is why i find it particularly regrettable that the council is not here to participate in that debate, because i believe we have a shared responsibility to ensure that these decentralised authorities are governed and controlled. in addition to these general remarks, which concern, in general terms, not all but a very large number of decentralised authorities, there are four authorities which i think we should look at more closely this year. the first is the european police college, cepol, which again this year is receiving comments on public procurement, recurring problems that have not been addressed. moreover, it is all the more remarkable that the court points out that money was used to pay for private expenditure. the same applies to galileo, where the court of auditors has so far been unable to give a statement on whether or not it wants to give a pure audit opinion, precisely because of the great uncertainty surrounding the relations between galileo and the european space agency and other actors involved. where does galileo begin and end? last but not least, frontex and the european railway agency are both clear examples of overestimating their costs and demanding too much money, and yet demanding more money every year. these are things i intend to look at more closely during the discharge process. i hope for a good continuation of cooperation with both the court of auditors and the commission and i am sorry that the council is not here to contribute to that discussion.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. scandals of corruption, fraud and irregularities have been common throughout the eu's history. public confidence in the eu is low. in sweden, we measure every year the swedish people's trust in different institutions. at the top, for example, we find health care, the police and the royal family, and at the bottom, politicians, trade unions and evening newspapers. at the very bottom are the european commission and the european parliament. the pattern is stable. so the eu needs an effective fraud authority. but we have had a bad experience with olaf: lack of independence, lack of transparency, hidden pressure on the appointment of the director-general and the monitoring committee. our rapporteur, ingeborg gräßle, has worked hard to ensure independence, transparency and strict compliance with the rules. i call on the house to give its full support to ingeborg gräßle's motion. it is an important first step in the eu's long march to win the trust of its citizens, if possible. let me end by making a particularly strong plea for an amendment which i myself have initiated. this requires all eu bodies to respect the protection of journalists' sources. after the scandalous tillacka affair, in which the olaf management itself is severely criticised, this is a much needed reform. it was finally the european court here in strasbourg that fully exonerated tillack last year. neither olaf, the european parliament nor the court of justice took any responsibility.
in writing. - this report notes that the population in most member states is ageing and that social security and pension systems are therefore under pressure. the solution to this problem is the usual one, namely various eu measures. the junilist believes that the eu should not deal with issues relating to the social security and pension systems of the member states at all. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. these are matters which should be dealt with entirely at national level. the general guidance provided by the eu institutions on these issues is of no use. we have therefore voted against the final vote on this report.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. the report voted on in parliament improves the directive, particularly in terms of equal treatment for third country workers, it prevents discrimination against third country workers. it is also positive that the member states should be able to examine their own need to open up to labour immigration. we also welcome the fact that parliament has rejected the commission's proposals which open up the possibility for employers to give special treatment to people under the age of 30. it is also welcome that the ability of eu countries to take in workers from sectors in third countries where there is a shortage of workers is being restricted. this prevents the eu from contributing to the skills flight of highly skilled workers, especially from developing countries. we also regret that parliament was unable to agree on the question of extending collective agreements to workers from third countries. we also regret that amendment no 79 was not adopted. finally, pay is not a matter for the eu and must ultimately be decided by the social partners in the member states. we expect the swedish government to continue this fight in the forthcoming council negotiations.
in writing. - competition for the driven and skilled workers has only just begun. to succeed in globalisation, europe must become more attractive in the competition for the world's talents. the commission's proposal for a blue card to facilitate entry into european labour markets is therefore very welcome. i myself have long been a strong advocate of blue cards and other solutions to facilitate entry into the european labour market. unfortunately, the proposal was watered down so much by the majority in parliament that i chose to abstain in the vote. i will continue to fight in the eu for a much sharper blue card than parliament was able to support.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. the brain drain problem could also have been handled better and that is why i am putting my vote down despite the positive aspects.
in writing. - basically, the blue card is a very good idea and i have always advocated making legal immigration easier and illegal immigration tougher. unfortunately, the original proposal has now become so watered down and bureaucratic that i, in line with my group, have decided to abstain.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat illegal immigration, and for the eu to be able to take action to combat illegal immigration.
in writing. - i choose to vote against the amendment, not because i think it is bad in itself, but because i want to await the larger and more thoughtful directive which is in the process of being drawn up by the commission. it is important that we do not rush through legislation in such an important area as this.
in writing. - the junilist considers it positive that the current 21 sectoral market organisation regulations are being revised and brought together in one single regulation to streamline and simplify legislation. however, as the commission notes, the basic policy remains unchanged. the junilists have therefore voted against this report, as we do not support the current cap.
in writing. - the junilists consider it of great importance that the member states of the european area are economically prosperous and favour an independent european neighbourhood policy. we believe, however, that a common european aid system for medium-term financial assistance is neither a guarantee nor a solution to the problem of the lack of such a system. such a system creates an unnecessary and bureaucratic procedure whereby those member states in need of assistance are in fact placed in a position of dependence on emu countries with outside requirements for 'political and economic measures'. countries that are part of the european union - which they should be - but not part of the monetary union - which they should not be - are forced to maintain a fixed exchange rate against the euro and thus against their main trading partners. we therefore believe that it is unhealthy for countries which are not in a monetary union to choose to maintain a fixed exchange rate and then have to be bailed out by large regional and/or international bodies. the junilista therefore considers that the provision of eur 25 billion for balance of payments support to member states is unnecessary. instead, we are saying that the countries that are in the eu but not in the monetary union should maintain a regime of floating exchange rates. then this kind of problem will disappear and the taxpayers will save 25 billion euros!
in writing. the commission is proposing to systematically collect and exchange passenger data at eu level to combat crime and terrorism. all data to be collected and made available to law enforcement authorities include air passenger credit card numbers, boarding preferences, contact details, baggage information, bonus information, language skills, age, name and contact details of the person accompanying a child on a journey and the relationship of that person to the child. this type of mass registration is likely to have privacy-infringing consequences. the proposal does not take account of the often-vaunted but rarely applied principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. we welcome the criticism of the european parliament of the commission's proposal and stress that it is doubtful whether this type of eu legislation is necessary. we have therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution, which rejects the measures proposed by the commission.
in writing. the situation in the eastern democratic republic of congo is terrible. we wholeheartedly support international solutions, which should be implemented within the framework of un cooperation. however, we do not believe that the eu should use international crises and conflicts to strengthen its foreign policy. we have therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a european space policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. however, we cannot support amendment no 6 which rejects all indirect military use, since a large number of applications such as satellite navigation and communications services are also used in peacekeeping operations, some of which are military. this technology is also of great benefit to civil society and we do not believe that civilian use should be limited because of military applications.
in writing. - the resolution is about bee colonies dying for unexplained reasons. we share the view that research is needed to tackle the problem. however, we do not share the view that there is a need for more subsidies to beekeepers and more protection against environmental protectionism.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include wine and water. we welcome the commission's initiating research into parasites and diseases which are decimating bee populations. but there are also proposals in the resolution which we cannot support. the european parliament, for example, 'firmly calls on the commission to propose a system of financial support for beekeepers who have been hit by problems due to the mortality of their hives' (paragraph 11). we cannot support such costs for the eu budget, and the federalist majority in the european parliament should not speak in favour of this without knowing the economic consequences of such a position. that is why we have voted against this resolution as a whole.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the main task for european politicians in the coming years is to safeguard employment and welfare. we have had some good years, but now we are seeing a rapid increase in unemployment. i share the commission's view of the need for concerted action and for linking short-term commitments and actions with long-term commitments. i also support poul nyrup rasmussen's proposal for clear targets to maintain employment. in the short term, it is important that consumers have confidence in the economy. we must protect the most vulnerable and their consumption above all. as far as the longer term solutions are concerned, it is important not only to postpone investments that would otherwise be made in more environmentally friendly infrastructure, environmentally friendly construction, but also in the development of the skills of the employees so that we are strong in the future. we will combine our instruments at european level with coordinated action in the member states. we should not do what some say, namely do too little, because then we risk both higher budget deficits, higher unemployment and lower welfare. we must act quickly and act strongly enough!
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. poverty, misery, and hunger are commonplace for the more than two billion people on earth who live on less than two dollars a day. of course, the dramatic recent price increases of rice, corn, and other basic commodities are also a major reason why many people do not have enough to eat. the eu has also become aware of this problem and is therefore seeking to set up a fund to deal with the crisis. the question we have to ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, is why we accept the harmful agricultural policy of the european union, which is one of the main culprits in this drama. this protectionist policy deprives poor people of the opportunity to earn an income and thus avoid starvation. nevertheless, this house always votes in favour of the common agricultural policy. it is tragic, and i wonder whether this is a deliberate or unconscious move on the part of the eu.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the commissioner for his answer. however, considering that there were so many more people who wanted to pre-register than we had initially thought, i think it is fair to say that a lot has worked. after all, 2.2 million have managed to register and 65,000 different companies, as john bowis said. it's good to know how much chemicals are being used. perhaps this is an indication of a certain nervousness and a feeling of 'better safe than sorry' which leads to registering even though the same use may already have been registered, etc. however, we cannot evaluate this until later. but it does make me want to ask a follow-up question. in sharp contrast to the many who pre-registered their chemicals, we have extremely few chemicals on the candidate list of the most dangerous chemicals. there are only 15 today, when we have 27 pbts and 800 other chemicals that should already be there. what if we get a very rapid increase in these. in future reach procedures and as we approach the next deadline, what will be able to be done when decisions are required by the chemicals agency? i believe we need to significantly increase the staffing levels at the chemical agency to make reach a success. otherwise, i think that at the end of the next deadline, when we need decisions from them, they will not have a chance to make the decisions that are needed in time. i therefore really believe that we must already plan for a substantial increase in the budget for the chemicals agency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the time for the climate negotiations, the eu climate package, is running out, and the responsibility for getting us there in time lies with the french presidency. parliament had already made its position clear in september. we will not accept a watered-down proposal. co-decision applies to everyone, including poland. the energy package is also being discussed. the energy package is very important for transparency and a functioning market. i would like to mention a few points, however, concerning emissions trading. first of all: those who let go will pay. that's why we can't compromise on an auction, and it would be completely insane to give everything away for free. secondly: if the measures force companies to move out of europe through carbon leakage, they will of course be compensated. however, a global agreement minimises this risk. that is why we should not be in a hurry to identify any victims before the copenhagen climate conference. i would point out that there are rules for small businesses and combined heat and power which are very important for industry. the money raised from climate action shall also be invested in climate action. that is why earmarking is needed. the poor countries are worried. we need money for mitigation and support there; we are 27, they are 77. in conclusion, i would like to remind our french colleagues of what general de gaulle once said: in politics, it's not the intention that counts, it's the result. we now have 24 hours with parliament and the trilateral meeting on emissions trading.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in march 2007, eu heads of government pledged that the eu would reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. it's a commitment that by itself is not enough to stop warming at the magic 2c limit that the research tells us is needed. yet it was a promise to our citizens and a step in the right direction. that is why i am very concerned to see that the instrument for achieving this goal, the climate package, is becoming weaker by the day. on monday, an informal agreement was reached between the french presidency and the major groups in parliament on how to reduce co2 emissions from cars. the result can be summed up very simply: business as usual for the automotive industry. it's completely incomprehensible to me. the commission already proposed in 1995 that emissions be limited to 120 g of co2. now, 13 years later, the case is being postponed even further. it is the result of all the loopholes in the legislation in the form of the phasing in of both the number of cars that have to comply with the requirements and ineffective penalties. i am also tired of hearing people use the financial crisis as an excuse for not taking responsibility for their climate impact. the automotive industry has had more than a decade to shift to a greener technology. this is not a result of the financial crisis, but it is the result of ongoing overproduction and a lack of conversion of the automotive industry. the negotiations on the emissions trading system are also in the final stages. it doesn't look bright for the climate here either. it's about the cdm projects. of course we should support climate projects in developing countries, but they have to be in addition to our own emissions reductions and not replace them.
mr president, while we are discussing reductions for 2020 of 20%, or at best 30%, more and more scientists tell us we have to do much more. the reason is the most recent science presented after the ipcc reports, and the message is that climate change is both more rapid and more serious than experts thought only a few years ago. the most alarming new information is about the interplay between the climate system, the oceans and the terrestrial eco-systems. oceans and vegetation on land have camouflaged warming by absorbing more than half of man-made emissions so far. this sink capacity is now at risk because of global warming, and it is further aggravated by the over-use and destruction of major eco-systems, in particular forests. while we can control emissions, we have no control over such positive feedback on the planetary system. so our effort, in my opinion, is too small. nevertheless we have to make a decision, hoping we can enhance our efforts step by step in cooperation with the rest of the world. with regard to the package, i am concerned that auctioning is being questioned. we need auctioning to stimulate innovation and to raise revenues for much-needed support for adaptation and green investments in developing countries. i am also concerned about the level of offsets proposed. in my opinion we are thus postponing the necessary technology transformation in our part of the world. i have been particularly involved in the negotiations on renewables. the most difficult area has been the sustainability criteria. here we had a breakthrough last night with the council on more ambitious greenhouse gas savings when using biofuels, and on including indirect land-use effects in the life-cycle analysis. i think that shows responsibility. let me make a final point. climate change is different from all other issues we are discussing. we can negotiate the detailed level of budgets, for instance, but we cannot negotiate with nature.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is one of the most important tasks of europe and the european union to ensure that we now have an international commitment to take the global climate targets seriously. it will also be one of the most important tasks of the swedish presidency to ensure that we get this international commitment at the copenhagen meeting. i think it may be important when we discuss these issues to remember that success in copenhagen, with broad international commitment, means far more than the various details of the package we are now discussing. that is why it is so important to ensure that we now have a climate package in place that lives up to the targets we have set. i think it is important that we are pragmatic about the different means. if we are pragmatic with the different means and at the same time ensure that we achieve the objectives, we will also ensure that we have a broad consensus on what needs to be done and that there is a persistence in the will of the different member states to live up to the different commitments that exist. this is the important thing, and it is with this perspective that we are moving forward with regard to the different types of intervention. i would like to stress that we must also be clear about one thing, namely that we must always make room for the best-performing measures. this means that we must create space to invest in other countries where the results are greatest. this does not mean less demand on ourselves, but it does mean that we must be clear that what we can do to help in other countries must be in the foreground. finally, the resources now released by auction should be allocated to the member states for different measures in the different countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the council and parliament are negotiating the climate package. while it would be a great success for the partnership if we could get it in place before christmas, i have to say that i am very concerned about the direction of the negotiations. the latest research suggests that we would have to reduce emissions by more than the climate package requires. nevertheless, the council of ministers, especially since a number of right-wing governments are in power, is aiming to water down the package. it is also with sadness in my heart as a swede that i see that the swedish moderate government is one of the main actors in preventing the eu from taking the lead in the climate package. for several reasons, the majority of the eu's emissions reductions must be done at home: firstly, because we have a moral responsibility to reduce our own emissions; secondly, because it is by taking the lead and showing that it is possible to combine emissions reductions with high economic growth that we can get with other countries on an international climate agreement; thirdly, because we must have incentives in place for our industry to develop the new green technologies needed to be competitive in the future. i would therefore urge parliament to oppose the swedish government's position and insist that the bulk of the emission reductions be made within europe and also insist that part of the emissions trading revenue should go to the developing countries. that is how we will gain credibility, and that is how we can get an international climate agreement in place in the autumn of 2009 in copenhagen.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we've promised the un and others that we're going to reduce emissions by 20 to 45 percent. we are now not even able to reach 20%, and the council of ministers is trying to transfer responsibility from us to the developing countries in the negotiations. clean development mechanisms are rather dirty development, which means that poor countries are forced to take our responsibility, that we can take credit for investing there for ourselves. when these countries then have to deliver their own climate policy, they will have to pay more for it. climate policy must include aid and action at home. the car package, i.e. on emissions from cars, is so worthless that the paper it is written on is emitting more than it will save on europe's and the earth's climate. it's bad for the automotive industry, it's bad for the environment and it's bad for consumers, who want energy-efficient cars for the future.
in writing. - high food prices primarily affect the world's most disadvantaged people. together with the financial and energy crises, the living conditions of large sections of the population are now at risk of deteriorating sharply. we recognize that the situation we have created calls for action. however, we do not share the rapporteur's ambition to set up another eu mechanism for the distribution of financial aid. development assistance, its scope, focus and content, is a good example of something that junilista believes should be decided at national level in the first instance and through cooperation through un agencies in the second instance. the junilist questioned the role of the eu, as it should be possible to seek solutions to the current food shortage through international fora instead. for these reasons, we have voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. in relation to the new swedish vat rules which came into force on 1 january 2008, these reports will unfortunately involve a certain degree of increased administration for some companies, but we believe that the changes are justified and proportionate to the purpose and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - we chose to vote for the report because it deals with several very important issues concerning the situation of women in the balkans. we would like to make it clear, however, that we are opposed to any requirement to introduce quotas. how political parties and national parliaments choose to organise themselves is not a matter for the eu to decide but is up to them.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the need to take action to address a number of problem areas appears to be considerable. we welcome several of the papers aimed at improving gender equality in the region, access to child and elderly care, the importance of combating stereotypes and discrimination and the need for the countries seeking eu membership to meet the copenhagen criteria. at the same time, we are critical of the european parliament's unrelenting attempt to gain influence and political power at the expense of the national parliaments. the report also clearly advocates far-reaching intervention in the internal affairs of the balkan states, a development which junilista strongly opposes. we welcome several of the intentions in the committee's report and in the alternative resolution. the junilista has therefore, after careful consideration, voted in favour of the alternative motion for a resolution.
for the pse group. i would first like to thank alejandro cercas for a very good job. is a common working time directive really necessary? unconditionally, because we have a common labour market and we must have minimum rules on health and safety. this is about health and safety. there are two issues which are the main differences between us and the council. one is the idle time on call. if there's a resemblance between us. the similarity is that we both say that flexible solutions can be found by the social partners agreeing at national or local level. the difference is the starting point of these negotiations, where the council says that this is not working time, but that it is free time. but we're saying the bottom line is that it's work time. of course, it is work time when you leave your home and are at the employer's disposal. but we are not against flexible solutions. the individual opt-out is a question of whether it should be permanent or phased out. we mean to phase it out. first of all, it is not voluntary. consider the present-day labor market situation, where many people apply for the same job with a single employer. what are their choices with regard to an employer when applying for a job? secondly, i wonder whether it is not a challenge in the present situation for some to be allowed to work 60 to 65 hours while so many are unemployed? it's challenging. thirdly, there is the question of equality. who works 60 to 65 hours? well, it's men who have housewives who do the groundwork. the criticism of the council's proposal by the women's lobby is strong and justified. this is about health and safety. we've been trying to get the negotiations started. it is the council that has not come to the negotiations. we are willing to discuss with the council and we have tried and we have continued to do so, but we have our positions with which we will start the negotiations.
for the pse group. i would like to thank mrs thyssen, my colleagues, the council and the commission for a very good cooperation. as mrs thyssen and many others in this house have said, we have improved the directive in a number of areas. for us social democrats, a consistently high level of security has been the highest priority. i believe that we have achieved a high level of safety without imposing unreasonable demands on industry. in some areas we would of course have wished we could have gone further, but i think that the compromise is for the most part a good text today. our group has wanted third party certification for certain toys but has not received any support for this, either from the other groups in the committee or from the council and the commission. we are naturally disappointed by this, but since we consider the new directive to be an improvement on the current one, we will support it in the plenary. i am particularly pleased that we will have stricter rules on the use of carcinogens, mutagens and substances toxic to reproduction, something the socialist group could not have compromised on. we have a much better basis for calculation than the council proposal and we have removed the derogation from the substitution principle, which will mean that these substances will be used to a limited extent. for the most dangerous heavy metals, we've cut migration limits in half and banned their use in areas where children can come in contact. the precautionary principle has also been one of the most important improvements. the principle is now in the article, and therefore the market surveillance authorities can refer to this principle if there is reason to believe that a toy is dangerous without scientific evidence. we have developed a better definition of how toys should be designed so as not to cause suffocation. asphyxiation is one of the most common fatalities involving toys, and we consider it a great step forward that we have clear rules in this area. we welcome the fact that the new directive requires that toys must not damage hearing. the commission has promised to draw up a new standard and i hope that it will be kept. we have wanted to see a stricter regulation of allergenic fragrances where all allergens were banned except in very specific cases. however, following parliament's consideration, the use has been restricted compared to the commission's proposal and we hope that the list will be kept up to date if other allergenic fragrance substances are used in toys. we also welcome the clarification of the rules on warnings and the fact that more types of toys will have the warning text on the toy itself, otherwise it is easy to forget it when removing the packaging. warnings relevant for the purchase of the toy must also be visible to the consumer, whether the toy is purchased in the store or online. i hope that after this week's vote we can now tie up the sacks and count on safer toys under the tree in the future, please.
for the gue/ngl group. time and again we hear about products being recalled because they are dangerous for our children. to investigate the swedish toy market, my colleague from the left party and i bought 17 different toys in stockholm, selected at random, and then had a laboratory test the 17 toys. one contained illegal levels of lead, five other toys contained brominated flame retardants. this is, of course, completely unacceptable. this shows that better regulation is necessary, but also better control. new toys should be subject to mandatory independent testing. children, as we all know, are resourceful and resourceful, and they do not use toys merely in the way that the manufacturer may have intended. it is difficult, if not impossible, to predict how children will use a particular toy. therefore, legislation must also apply to broken toys, as some dangerous substances are released. the safety and security of children is non-negotiable. there is no room for compromise. i welcome the directive, but the united left would have wanted to go further. a total ban on allergens, carcinogens, mutagens and substances that affect reproduction. the safety of our children is more important than short-term financial gain, please!
for the ind/dem group. for me and many others here tonight, it is obvious that toys should be safe, because small children cannot read warning texts or assess the risks that may arise. products must also not contain chemicals that may be harmful to health. the junilists therefore welcome an update of the legislation in force in this area, but i would also like to warn against ill-concealed protectionism. toys that meet the safety requirements should be able to be imported and sold in the eu regardless of whether they have been manufactured in the eu or in asia, thank you.
for the ind/dem group. yes, mr president, i am a strong supporter of the eu's single market, but defence equipment is not like other goods and services. when a country exports defence equipment, it also takes a stance on foreign and security policy and must be able to take responsibility for this. the commission's proposal for a new system for the transfer of defence equipment is justified by efficiency and security of supply and the rapporteur, mrs rühle, essentially supports the commission. this is misleading reasoning. if the treaty of lisbon is pushed through by the european power elite against the rules of democracy, as is likely to happen, the proposal we are discussing here will be a major step towards military union. say no to this! intergovernmental solutions in this area are the way forward compatible with an independent national foreign and security policy. that's the kind of thing that works. the nordic countries are currently negotiating these issues. thank you for speaking.
the market improvement that this will bring about will promote the defence industry's opportunities in the european market. as we have heard, previous licensing systems have been complicated and administratively burdensome, and have also made it difficult to distinguish between loyal partners in neighbouring countries and new operators from third countries. this is now changing by reducing the barriers to transfer and harmonising and simplifying the rules, which will of course benefit market-driven countries. my country has a strong competitive defence industry and we have a good reputation in international contexts for peacekeeping and democracy-building efforts. for that reason it has also been extremely important for us, for me, as well as for my government, to maintain 100% swedish control over exports to third countries. we cannot under any circumstances accept that countries with a more accepting attitude towards undemocratic and belligerent states buy arms from sweden and then pass them on, export them beyond swedish control. we want a guarantee that the defence equipment we sell does not fall into the wrong hands, and we have got that with the introduction of so-called end-user certificates. i therefore support with great confidence the compromise presented in plenary and thank all the parties involved for a good job.
in writing. - if it were not for morocco's actions in western sahara, i would have voted in favour of the resolution. i have nothing against an association and exchange between the eu and morocco. however, in order to receive my support, morocco must first respect human rights and stop oppressing the people of western sahara.
the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the euro. under current legislation, such transfer is prohibited. the junilista agrees that it is of the utmost importance to protect the euro against counterfeiting. we believe, however, that this issue should be dealt with by the countries whose currency is the euro. sweden and other non-euro area member states should not interfere in the euro area countries' handling of the matter. we have therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. − it is positive that funds are reimbursed to member states when the implementation rate of the structural funds is low. the second part of this amending budget deals with disaster aid and the establishment of a rapid reaction mechanism to deal with rising food prices in developing countries. we are not convinced of the proposed budget of eur 262 million. the question is more complicated than that. there are many examples of how the eu has dumped food prices and pushed out local food producers in developing countries. the eu has thus impeded the local food supply in developing countries. so now they want to use disaster aid as a short-term solution. what is needed is to change the eu's common agricultural policy and the eu's export refunds for agricultural products. we cannot therefore support this part of the amending budget at this stage. as the reimbursement of unused structural funds to the member states constitutes the largest part of amending budget no 9/2008, we have chosen to vote in favour of the proposal as a whole. that does not mean that we support the disaster aid proposal in this amending budget.
in writing. - the report by jamila madeira on european coastal tourism is a difficult and complex one, without concrete and clear objectives, but with a clear and concrete top-down perspective. i cannot see how the european parliament could improve the conditions for the tourist industry in the union by calling on the member states to build cycle lanes (paragraph 7) or to reduce airport taxes (paragraph 32). the conditions for coastal tourism differ in countries such as greece and sweden. that is why i voted against the report.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive should be adopted by the council in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 149 (2) of the treaty. the tourism sector and investment for the development of industry is a matter which should be dealt with exclusively by the individual member states. the junilista group therefore considers that financial investments in infrastructure and fixed transport links, for example, should be managed by the member states concerned and not be a burden on taxpayers in other parts of the eu. the junilista also questions the rapporteur's call on the european parliament to 'promote efforts to maintain economic activity outside the high season of tourism', a proposal which can hardly be described as anything other than an attempt to establish a cross-border employment protection. unlike the rapporteur, we also oppose the committee of the regions' wish to establish a european coastal fund. the junist party members have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. the report's proposals are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. we do not want a european media education for all children in the member states. individual member states shall design their curricula according to national conditions. we also do not believe that parents and older people in general have poor media literacy.
in writing. the rapporteur wants to introduce european media training at different levels, targeting families, schools, homes for the elderly and the disabled. that is a good idea, of course, but it does not belong at eu level. as an advocate of a narrower but more inclusive eu, i believe that this should be something that each member state should organise itself. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - we believe that media literacy is a matter for the member states. the draft opinion before us in the european parliament does indeed contain some good advice (and some less good advice for that matter), but this is a matter exclusively for the member states. the proposal for a report also addresses the curricula of education in the member states. junilista has pointed out in this parliament before, and does so again, that the member states have exclusive responsibility for the organisation of education and the content of education systems. subsidiarity is the talk of the town, but the reality is different. the eu should deal with crossborder issues, but not with those that individual member states can decide on themselves or that are already regulated by other international treaties. we have voted against the motion for a resolution for these reasons.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. however, we do not believe that the eu should legislate on how to regulate trade in defence equipment within europe's borders. defence equipment cannot be considered as other goods and services. as with export policy, legislation in this area should be a matter for the member states alone. where there is a need for cross-border cooperation, it should be at intergovernmental level. as junilista strongly opposes any attempt to build up military capability within the framework of eu cooperation, we are strongly critical of the commission's proposal. the rapporteur's amendments do not make things any better. the junilists' vote against the report is therefore not only a vote against the committee's resolution, but also a clear rejection of any form of militarisation of eu cooperation.
in writing. - we believe that the european commission's strategy for a more competitive defence industry in the eu is going in the wrong direction. it is another step towards military cooperation in the eu, with the aim of building a common defence. it is a development which we fundamentally oppose. we are committed to an independent and militarily non-aligned foreign policy. the protection of international law, democracy and human rights is not mentioned in the european commission's proposal. we believe that peace, democracy and human rights are more important than creating a new market for weapons. it is also a security policy area. sweden has the power of decision under the eu treaty. on this point, we believe that the european commission's draft law is contrary to the eu treaties. for these reasons, we shall vote against the motion.
in writing. i do not want a single market for arms. any country should be able to stop importing and exporting weapons if they so choose. weapons must not be exported without hindrance, even within the eu. unfortunately, we lost the vote on the amendment which expressed this. i therefore abstained in the final vote, as there were also positive aspects of the report, such as a reinforced control to stop exports to third countries and increased transparency and access to information for people's movements and others.
in writing. − the junist mandate in the european parliament is based on a promise to voters to work for greater transparency and prudent management of the eu's financial resources. the council now proposes that eu operations of a value not exceeding eur 1 million and co-financed by the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund or the european social fund should continue to be exempted from monitoring and control. this is simply unacceptable. we understand that the administrative burden must be put in relation to the amounts involved. nevertheless, we are critical of the council's proposal to leave the field open to the misuse of eu resources in the way proposed. for these reasons, the junilista has decided to vote against the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. we have absolutely no objection to ensuring that the european parliament's assistants have reasonable salaries and working conditions. but just as little as in the case of the transfer of meps to a salary system in the eu with a favourable eu tax, we want to transfer members' assistants to the 'eu tax rescue'. members and their assistants must be rooted in their national reality. wages and benefits shall be linked to the conditions in their member state or, in the case of assistants, to the conditions at the place of work where they live and work. neither members nor assistants should be isolated in an 'eu bubble' of high salaries and benefits far removed from the reality of the citizens they are supposed to represent. we have therefore voted against this proposal for an eu charter for assistants. for us, this is a matter of principle, not of the financial conditions of assistants per se.
in writing. − the new harmonisation rules for parliamentary assistants (‘other civil servants’) are not satisfactory from a nordic employee perspective. we consider that the new rules will lower social standards as regards family benefits and social benefits for the care of sick children, etc. there are also serious concerns about how the new rules will affect pension rights, unemployment benefits and the protection of employees against dismissal. however, one should remember the background for the proposal. there are serious problems for assistants on unregulated contracts at the european parliament. they are at times working in appalling conditions. this new regulation will put an end to that practice. we voted in favour of the proposal in solidarity with assistants who are exploited by greedy meps/employers.
in writing. - we have voted in favour of this statement by the european parliament. however, we have doubts about the proposal in paragraph 13 to extend directive 2005/29/ec. it is good that the statement points to austria and belgium as good examples of how to deal with unserious catalogue companies. we think that it may be enough to highlight these countries in europe as good examples. the legislators of the member states are certainly competent enough to take note of the good examples of other countries and themselves decide on new laws addressing the problems facing entrepreneurs in their respective member states in this field. institutional competition between member states is essential to solving the very problems dealt with in this statement.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − madam president, i agree that this renewables directive is the best part of the energy and climate package. i am particularly happy that they managed to vastly improve the sustainability criteria for biofuels. i think the rapporteur has done an excellent job. we should congratulate ourselves on this directive because other parts of the package leave a lot to be desired. when full auctioning is postponed to 2027 – a generation from now – and more than 60% of emissions reductions can be made in third countries, where is the necessary push and where are the necessary incentives for the transformation of energy production, transportation, industrial production, etc.? this is serious for our long-term efforts to cut emissions but also for industry. we need innovation. if i were you, commissioners, i would be a bit worried about the risk of a collapse of the ets market as a combined effect of the low requirements for domestic action and the recession. i think this renewables directive is an outstanding example. it will give the necessary incentives for technology development, it will create new jobs and it will reduce dependency on the outside world, all of which we desperately need to happen.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. − we have had an emissions trading system in place in europe since 2005. this debate has been about improving these rules. yet it has felt like being in the movie killing fields with fire and mortar from all sides. much of the negotiations have been conducted in the committee on industry and i would like to mention some of the points that are included in the final outcome of the negotiations. the priority of a global agreement is of the utmost importance. the fact that we are getting the list of the competitive industries after copenhagen is very important. we have got through simpler rules and less red tape for small businesses. the system has become more open and transparent with a ban on insider trading, which ensures credibility and efficiency. we have introduced incentives for industry to use surplus gas and heat for cogeneration. we have more shipping and we have the ability to negotiate with the countries around us on emissions trading. the structure is still there, the environmental objectives are there, the instruments have been weakened by the actions of the member states. i regret that, but i would still recommend that you vote yes, because the cost of not having a climate package in place is infinitely greater. thank you, mr president.
for the alde group. the swedish author and nobel prize winner selma lagerlöf begins one of her most famous novels with the exclamation finally!, and that is what all of us who have worked on these different issues in the climate package can say. a big thank you, of course, to the french presidency, to the commission and to commissioner dimas who has personally put so much work into this, to avril doyle of course, and to all colleagues, and not least to the staff who have worked so hard. there are many of us who would like to go further, but let us remember that there are also many who do not believe in the climate effect, who do not want any decision and who would gladly have postponed all the handling, all the handling and above all the vote that we are going to have tomorrow, and that is the situation with which we are going to compare. in the best of worlds, i would wish for more emission reductions in europe, for fewer emission allowances to be given away for free, but at the same time i can see that we have achieved a number of positive things such as increased transparency, simpler rules, exemptions for small businesses, carrots, incentives for energy efficiency in industry and a threshold for aid to developing countries. shipping will be entering the system in a few years. it is clear that more allowances will be sold at auction. unfortunately, there was no earmarking of the proceeds for important investments and projects. however, member states have promised to demonstrate through transparency that at least half of the revenue is used to help developing countries, invest in forests, invest in new research and invest in new technologies. it is a promise which the member states must keep, and we in parliament will keep a close eye on them, and those who fail to keep their promises here will be hunted down with flashlights. what we are voting on tomorrow is not a perfect agreement, but if we say no to this, we are voting yes to nothing. then we have nothing to start with at the copenhagen negotiations in december. if we do not start this work now, the costs will be enormous, and what we have to do now is to take our responsibility in the vote tomorrow, for the environment, for industry and for the people of europe. the alde group will support all the proposals contained in the package. thank you, madam president.
for the gue/ngl group. emissions are increasing at an unprecedented rate. the increase of 2.2 parts per million of co2 per year is the fastest increase in co2 emissions in 650,000 years. we have to stop this. we need to get down to 350 parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. the ets is the eu's main instrument for reducing emissions. so how we design the system is absolutely crucial. that is why i am disappointed that as much as half of the eu's emission reductions will be made in other countries through so-called flexible mechanisms. this has never been the thinking of the climate commission, which speaks of the flexible mechanisms as complementary measures only. i am also disappointed that the auction procedure is taking too long to come into full effect and that energy companies with sufficient capital will be granted free allocation if they build pilot plants for carbon capture and storage, known as ccs. nevertheless, i and the left group will support the proposal. the proposal is in any case an improvement on the current badly functioning system. we have introduced a ceiling for cdm projects and quality criteria for them. after all, auctioning of emission allowances will become the dominant principle. the upper emission ceiling will also be gradually lowered. this means that europe's emissions must be reduced continuously. in conclusion, it is a step in the right direction, but i wish we had gone further. as a rule, industry lobbyists and conservative member states have been successful in their attempts to water down climate ambitions. it is the eu in a nutshell. a lot of talk, but a little work when it really counts. thank you, thank you!
madam president, i must say that in these years that i have been in the european parliament i have learned that things do not always turn out exactly as you want. everything is based on compromise, but it actually usually ends up pretty good anyway. there are many people complaining at the moment, both those who think we should have decided on more ambitious rules, but also those who think that these rules are too ambitious. however, i think that we should be very pleased that we actually manage to reach a compromise at all. this is a step in the right direction, and it's a step that at least makes me proud. i am proud that this confirms that sweden remains the country that takes the greatest responsibility in europe, but also that europe is the part of the world that takes the greatest responsibility overall. as moderates, we have worked hard to achieve this compromise, both in the council and here in the european parliament. there is a lot to comment on this, but if i were to comment on what i am most pleased with, i would like to highlight what we have done with cars, that we take into account the environmental benefits cars do, but also that we give car companies reasonable time to develop new car models. as i said, however, we must not be fooled into thinking that this is the final step in the process. this is just the prelude to the important work that needs to be done in copenhagen. i think we have a good base there. thank you so much!
i want to thank satu hassi, because she's really done her best but unfortunately the council is not cooperative. unfortunately, we have a council that is turning a blind eye to the fact that we in europe must take our responsibility to solve the climate problem. we cannot take 80 percent of our climate responsibility outside our own borders and let the poorest countries on earth, when they're going to do their climate shop, pay dearly for their climate work while we do the simple and cheap things. it's colonialism at its worst. we need to reduce our own emissions by 70 to 80 percent if we're going to meet the climate goals. with this policy we will be dealing with 7 or 8 percent instead. it is completely unsolidarist and inadequate, and the question is whether future generations will not hold the council of ministers accountable in the international criminal court in the hague for such an irresponsible policy which affects not only people but also the earth. thank you, thank you!
mr president, there is a great weakness in the directive we are now discussing. by allowing such a high degree of flexibility through reductions in third countries, i wonder what the effects will be. cost-effectiveness is an important principle and the compromise in front of us would be ok as proposed if the objective were to cut 20% of global emissions. then it would make sense to do what is now being proposed. however, science tells us that we have to reduce over the longer term by 80% to 95%. i do not understand how that will be possible if we postpone most of our efforts until 2020 and beyond. we need a thorough transformation of energy transport in industrial production, construction etc. by allowing 60% to 80% of reductions in the non-ets sector in other parts of the world, this is not going to happen.
for the gue/ngl group. since 1990, emissions from the european transport industry have increased by over 30%. as early as 1995, the european commission proposed the emission limit of 120 grams per kilometre for european cars. but what we're about to vote on is a lost opportunity. when this law comes into force in 2012, 35 percent of cars will be exempt. the so-called eco-innovations can help car manufacturers to emit even more. the fines are so low that it's cheaper to ignore the law than to cancel production. what will happen to parliament's demand for 95 grams per kilometre by 2020? i didn't say anything! i would like to vote in favour of amendment no 50 by the left group and the green group. then we have a real binding emission standard for cars: 95 grams of co2 by 2020. if it passes, we in the left group are prepared to support this, otherwise not. it is said that if you lock two company executives in a room, they immediately begin to discuss how to divide the market between them and form a cartel. unfortunately, this is also the case for the two major political groups in this parliament, the ppe and the pse. once again the conservatives and the social democrats have chosen to run the other side of the house. the big losers in this, yes, are the environment and social democracy. for the environment, this is a lost opportunity to take control of car emissions. as for the social democrats, this agreement shows that they are becoming more and more like their environmentally hostile political opponents in the ppe. it's not good.
mr president, i would like to thank you. who are we protecting by making the car industry a low-stakes business? we're talking about loopholes in the law. they're not crawl holes. it's a freeway with emergency exits for the auto industry, free of all liability and all demands. who benefits from that? are we going to continue to produce cars that no one in the world wants to drive? - i know. most cars in the future will be sold in india and china and other developing countries, and they want energy-efficient cars. mother earth wants energy-efficient cars, and european consumers want energy-efficient cars. so are we going to let the auto industry live in a fantasy world where they can continue to make cars that nobody wants? no, it is bad policy for the environment, for consumers, for the economy and for research. in other words, a complete failure. that is why we cannot support this motion!
writer. - mr president! - what is it? tomorrow parliament will decide on the various elements of the climate package. this will have meant that we have negotiated and decided on important elements of the future european energy and environment policy in a very short time. it also means that parliament and the council will have completed the climate package much earlier than we will have implemented and decided on the energy markets. it should have been the other way around if we had been able to complete the decision-making on the electricity and gas markets and the crossborder markets much earlier. the energy market we are now building under the climate package requires a well-functioning energy market across europe's borders, with competition to keep prices down. we should also ensure that we can take advantage of every single source of energy available to us in europe. in that part, the order between the market package and the climate package has been a little upside down. what we can do now is to ensure that these negotiations are brought to a head as quickly as possible. the czech presidency is of course required to launch these as soon as possible, as my colleague has suggested here earlier, in january in strasbourg. but when we decide tomorrow on the climate package, the french presidency is also required to deal with this situation, to initiate a process which will allow the negotiations to start immediately and the discussions on disengagement, unbundling, better competition and crossborder links to start as soon as possible. this is important not only to keep prices down and to increase competition, but also to ensure that the various member states which may be put at a greater risk by the climate package do not become isolated or isolated. this is something that must be done, and i hope that it will be done to a large extent during the czech presidency. but mr president and mr minister, we do not want to let the french presidency escape its responsibilities in these last days of december 2008. thank you so much!
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. as usual, we are presented with a document that is exemplary in parliamentary craftsmanship by those who have prepared the budget. at the same time, we find ourselves in the unreasonable situation that what we are doing is something that we should not be doing. we're in the middle of a discussion about how to spend more money. this parliament does not represent the taxpayers, it does not want to withhold spending, but is concerned that not enough money is being spent. more than two thirds of the money goes to things that are not only something we should not be doing as a parliament, but are also being used for the wrong things. they still go to agricultural policy, to rural development and to regional policy, to all those things that belong on the countries' own table and that they have to pay for themselves. there is also, quite rightly, a lot of talk here about 2009 being a year of crisis in europe, in the united states, indeed, in fact, in the whole world, and then the question is asked: what are we gonna do? - right here? and i said, there's nothing we can do about it here. the eu countries spend perhaps 40 to 45 per cent of their money on public expenditure. one percent goes this way and to the wrong things. we are marginalizing ourselves with this approach. thank you so much. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you. as the rapporteur for the budgetary committee on industry, i have to say that we in the committee agreed at a very early stage, even before the crisis hit, that we must increase our efforts, particularly in the areas of climate and energy measures and small and mediumsized enterprises. we have now reached the same conclusion in the committee on budgets, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the unusually good cooperation on the budget this year. we also stress the need to focus on joint growth and infrastructure initiatives. i was listening to mr lundgren from the ind/dem a little while ago. he's got this all wrong. no one believes that we could have such a large eu budget that the eu itself could counteract the cyclical efforts. what we are going to do is common things that the member states cannot do, to build the eu together into a common market, a real common market. now that we have removed the barriers to trade, we must also have a common infrastructure, not least a common energy infrastructure, and a common research activity to become world leaders. that is what we are talking about, not taking anything away from the member states. i spoke for the first time in this budget debate in 1999. what was the conversation about? yes, about the same things as today, about jobs and growth, about simplification and efficiency, about more flexibility in the budget to improve the eu's ability to react quickly to new challenges. but unfortunately, too much is still rolling in the same wheels. the commission's initiative in the context of the recovery plan is therefore welcome, even if it came very quickly. in any case, i think the most important thing we can do now is to bring about a more substantial and stable change in the eu's budgetary policy. the results of the commission's open consultation on the long-term budget show what it is all about: a stable and long-term commitment to growth, environment and climate policies. it also means that we can move away from the situation we have with ad hoc operations with constant revisions of the budgetary plans. the long-term budget now needs a different structure. that is the most important thing the commission can do now. thank you, sir.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i speak for my whole group. we are opposed to the procedure now proposed. our president, francis wurtz, has already said at the meeting of the group chairmen that this is completely unacceptable. the vote on the climate package, one of the most important votes of the year, should be held in the same way as any other vote. it is undemocratic and it is terrible that we do not vote on each report separately. we must be able to vote on each report in its own right and we must have the right to table amendments which we vote on. i would like to see this proposal torn up and let us vote on each report separately and let us vote on the amendments that have been tabled, please!
i would like to say a heartfelt thank you to alejandro and all the others who have worked on this issue. i don't see the council here today. we have tried to open negotiations with the council, but they have not wanted to come to the table. we now have a large majority in this parliament. let us now come to the table so that we can have a good working time directive. we now know, by a large majority, what parliament thinks.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats decided to vote in favour of this report on the reform of the emissions trading system. in the main, however, we believe that the climate package as such is not ambitious enough. more will be required of the eu to meet the challenge of climate change. but we believe that this can be a very important part of the measures that must be taken. we are disappointed that the compromise between the council and the european parliament does not provide sufficient guarantees that part of the proceeds from the auction will go to climate action in developing countries. we also believe that the auctioning of allowances should have been more extensive and that the use of the cdm should have been further restricted.
in writing. the revision of the emissions trading system is a step forward from the current rules. emissions allowances will be gradually auctioned to industry, rather than being given away for free as is the case today. it commits the eu to adjust its climate target from 20% to 30% reduction by 2020 at a successful climate agreement in copenhagen next year. it also calls on member states to use their auction revenues for climate action in europe and beyond. unfortunately, the compromise is far from the level of ambition that the situation requires. instead of auctioning all allowances at the outset, auctioning will be phased in. this softening reduces the incentive to develop new and more low-carbon technologies. it also reduces the revenue that the eu needs to help developing countries invest in green technologies, adapt to climate change and protect tropical forests. at the same time, while up to half of the emission reductions can be achieved through reductions in third countries, the ets will remain a tool of limited effectiveness in the period up to 2020. despite its shortcomings, a 'no' vote would have been unthinkable. i do not want to take the risk of jeopardising the whole directive, which has many positive aspects compared to today.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats decided to vote no to this compromise on responsibility sharing because we believe it is completely unacceptable that not even half of the eu's emission reductions need to be done at home. we believe that this is the wrong signal to the rest of the world, which expects the eu to lead on climate change, and we are concerned that the eu is now failing to put clear drivers in place to develop new green technologies. we believe that the latter is absolutely crucial for employment and welfare in europe.
in writing. - i chose not to vote on the directive on the allocation of responsibilities. the main reason is that it sends the wrong signal to the outside world when the eu can do around 70% of the emission reduction by 2020 abroad. major efforts are needed to help developing countries invest in low-carbon technologies. however, this aid should not primarily be an alternative to domestic reductions but a complement. we don't have the time or the money to choose whether we're going to have a chance of preventing dangerous climate change. postponing the necessary domestic transition beyond 2020 is counterproductive. we have to start now if we're going to have any chance of getting to near zero emissions by 2050. industry needs strong incentives for the necessary transition in energy, transport, construction, industrial production, etc. the proposal for the non-accounting sector is far too weak in these respects. that is why i chose to abstain on this part of the package. a no vote would have put the whole package in jeopardy, and i didn't want to take that risk. the directive has a lot of good things in it, by the way, compared to the status quo. in particular, it is the first in the world to require binding reductions from all sectors not covered by emissions trading.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. we would have liked to see a more ambitious proposal with stricter fines, shorter transitional periods and a clearer long-term objective. we are also critical of the fact that the ethanol rebate was so small that it hardly justifies investment, even though ethanol contributes to emission reductions. however, we have chosen to vote in favour of the proposal as a whole, as we believe that a rejection would mean an even later introduction of environmental rules for the automotive industry.
in writing. the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to amend the directive on working time, but stressed that it was not enough to ensure that the directive was fully implemented. the council agreement contains an opt-out option which allows the social partners to depart from the weekly working time directive. this is how the swedish model of collective agreements is protected. this is also in line with the principle of subsidiarity, which means that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the citizen. the parliament's proposal is to exclude this opt-out option. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. - junilistan believes that it is first and foremost the social partners and secondly the swedish parliament that should determine our working time rules. this line has broad popular support and the successful swedish trade union movement has normally argued that the social partners should decide such matters in collective agreements without state interference. the trade union movement in sweden and other eu countries has now changed its mind and is therefore calling for major changes to the council's common position. the question now is to hand over power over the swedish labour market, not to swedish elected representatives but to brussels. the reason is concern that member states will gain competitive advantages and risk public health through long working hours and irresponsible regulations on standby time. but the eu countries are democratic states governed by the rule of law and are bound by the european convention on human rights. they have free trade union movement. countries that do not meet these criteria are not accepted into the membership. is there a problem? i would point out that the new situation that has arisen should be dealt with in a conciliation process between parliament and the council. i have therefore voted in favour of the amendments on the opening-up of the market and the uk's opt-out to promote such a political process.
in writing. − employment rights and working time are two of the pillars of the swedish labour market model. in today's vote on the working time directive, it therefore seemed natural to follow our swedish line and defend the collective agreement model by following the compromise reached in the council. unfortunately, there was no opportunity to support individual amendments which were good, as that would have overturned the whole compromise. the council compromise allows for the opt-out which ensures that we can maintain our swedish model. the choice of the social democrats to risk our swedish system in favour of more eu legislation is remarkable and calls into question their support for the swedish labour market model.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens and to the use of carcinogens in the manufacture of foodstuffs. we welcome the more effective crossborder follow-up of traffic offences and the establishment of an electronic information system as a means of increasing road safety. road safety will always be a high priority for us. the proposal lacks a legal basis, unfortunately, as it opts to treat traffic offences, which in sweden and several other member states are within the criminal justice system, as an administrative matter. this has the effect of making it difficult to apply the directive in sweden and in several other member states, but also of calling into question the legal basis of the directive as a whole. we have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. the commission proposes to introduce, by means of the proposed directive, rules for the imposition of fines for certain traffic offences committed in member states other than the driver's own. the commission and parliament's proposal deals with the issue through a supranational decisionmaking process under the first pillar of the eu. however, like the swedish government, we believe that the proposed directive, since it has a criminal law purpose, should be dealt with on an intergovernmental basis within the framework of judicial cooperation under the third pillar of the eu. we have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - this report proposes the creation of a specific electronic system for the exchange of information on drivers between member states. it will be a simple and easy way of asking those who drive too fast, without a seatbelt or at a red light to pay a fine in the country where the traffic offence was committed. the idea behind this proposal is certainly a good one. but unfortunately the proposal leaves much to be desired. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the technical equipment for traffic controls and the methods used for traffic controls are also to be harmonised. there are also questions about the legal basis of this proposal, as sweden has pointed out in the council. the junilist has therefore voted against this proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr giusto catania, both for the report and for your unwavering commitment and work to respect fundamental rights. you can never compromise on basic rights. there can never be any political or cultural reason to compromise fundamental rights. and to mr szymański i would say that the fundamental rights of course also include reproductive rights. they also include the right to their sexual orientation. what is important now is that all the eu institutions work to ensure that the fundamental rights, the charter, are not just words on paper, but that we now have to ensure that concrete action is taken. we must ensure that fundamental rights are respected and that applies to all groups in society, please!
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the eu member states and institutions and in the western world in general, there are serious problems of discrimination against lgbt people. in many parts of the world, the problems are bigger than that. there, one even risks imprisonment or execution for his sexual preferences. this is completely unacceptable and should not be happening in 2008. i believe that human rights are universal and not relative. you can't invoke old customs and customs to defend hate against lgbt people. no, human rights apply to all people in the world and these rights should be inviolable. every person who calls himself a democrat must take responsibility and fight intolerance in all its forms. i am afraid that there are many members of this parliament who have hostile views towards homosexuals. this was particularly evident before and after the exhibition i hosted in brussels last week. i was very appalled when i read the comments, but unfortunately i am not very surprised. the fight against intolerance and for human rights must be waged everywhere with our friends, nationally, in the eu and globally through the un. i therefore welcome the initiative of the french presidency. i actually had a minute and a half. thank you, thank you!
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first, a brief word on the value of vocational training. it is important that vocational training in each eu member state develops. it is important for the eu itself, for competitiveness and for our ability to assert ourselves in the world, but it is also important for the individual that we have a high quality vocational training in the eu. that's the general framework around this. we know that vocational training is organised very differently in the individual member states. it is not that this proposal for a reference framework threatens the way in which member states organise vocational training throughout europe, but that it can build on the traditions that exist, whether they are organised locally, regionally or nationally. there has been a common framework for quality assurance and vocational training in the past, but the member states have now wanted to develop this framework, not least in view of the increasing globalisation and the need for higher quality in education. in this work we have been doing on the quality framework, i would like to thank the commission and the council for the excellent cooperation that has enabled us to come up with joint solutions. what is it then? the member states have been very keen that we should not be giving them stickers, but something which they see as adding value to themselves. we need to exchange experiences. i have myself visited pilot projects on quality assurance in motor vehicle training for young people back in my country where there is a collaboration going on that is very, very rewarding. we have a common labour market, we have common objectives and therefore it is important that we have this kind of exchange of experience and a common framework within which this exchange of experience takes place. we have also been careful, together with the member states, to say that the indicators presented here should not be seen as a means of control but as an asset for the member states. they shall be able to be used when they are assuring quality and developing their systems. i hope and believe that this step, that we are now reaching an agreement, will mean that vocational training will develop in the internal market. i am quite sure that it does, and i am also quite sure that the exchange of experience and the tools now being made available to the member states will be of benefit both to the member states themselves, to the eu and to individuals. thank you, thank you!
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? mr takkula is not here anymore, but he asked whether there is a contradiction between having ambitions at eu level and the fact that education systems are still national in nature. i see no contradiction in that. i think that this reference framework is based on ambition at eu level, while at the same time we have confidence in the member states. we give them opportunities and what we call a toolbox to use. i don't think there is any contradiction. i would then like to stress what mr figeľ said about the fact that in the current economic and employment crisis it is even more important to invest in education. this is what will help the eu to be competitive, but also to give individuals the tools in their lives to move on and invest in further education throughout their lives. i would like to conclude by thanking the commission again, but also all the shadow rapporteurs. we have had a very good cooperation during the journey and i too would like to wish you all a merry christmas and a happy new year.
for the pse group. mr president, commissioner and vice-president barrot and members. i would like to begin by thanking javier moreno sánchez and the committee, because we have had a good discussion about frontex and eurosur this time, but i would also like to thank them for following frontex's work so closely on an ongoing basis. it is necessary because so many people are concerned about how frontex will develop, if it is to become the eu's bulwark against the rest of the world and the poor globally. it has recently emerged that frontex did not interpret it as having a mission to combat trafficking in human beings. i am glad that i have the support for this now, and that we are clarifying this. i think everyone here agrees on the importance of doing everything we can to help stop people getting into trouble when they apply for eu membership. they are not criminals but they are poor, and they seek a better life for their family. i am also pleased to receive support for the deepening of the rules applicable to the seas, and in particular the mediterranean, in ec law and in international law. it is unacceptable that fishermen who take refugees should be suspected of smuggling, and that there is a lack of clarity as to whether they should be able to release the refugees, for example, in the nearest port or what rules apply. it is therefore good that in future programmes for eu asylum, refugee and migration policy we now also address how we can make better use of frontex in future work. before i close, i would like to wish all my colleagues, our wonderful libe chancellor, president barrot and commissioner barrot a merry christmas and a happy new year, thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i appreciate the parts of the report that talk about the sanctity of human life and the right of return of refugees, that they are not sent back to an unacceptable situation. i am very concerned, however, that frontex will become part of the construction of fortress europe. i feel that our solidarity with each other to close our borders is greater than the solidarity with the people who come to us. we have some kind of false image that europe should have some kind of disproportionate share of the world's refugees. that's not true at all. it is the poorest countries on earth that receive by far the most refugees. we're only taking in a stream of these people. moreover, when we talk about integrating return agreements into all agreements with other countries, i think we are completely wrong. first, we'll create development through fair trade agreements, and then maybe we'll have fewer refugees, too. it's a much better policy for us and for other countries.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, gianluca susta. it would have been easy for us to agree to a good deal here. but parliament's rules force us to table separate resolutions without the possibility of voting on individual amendments. this makes it difficult to reach a compromise where the will of the majority in parliament has a chance to be expressed correctly. this is very unfortunate because it means that if, for example, the green resolution is not supported tomorrow, we will be voting here tomorrow on a proposal to control the internet and the content on the internet and to make the distributors responsible for it. that would be very unfortunate, because that is not even the will of parliament. consumers and people are threatened in two ways by piracy and counterfeiting. you can be exposed to environmentally harmful goods, you can be exposed to health-friendly counterfeit medicines and thereby be directly affected. but we can also be threatened by excessive measures to protect trademarks, especially copyright. it's all about finding a good balance. i think that parliament's clear message to the commission and the council, as they continue the negotiations, is that whatever the outcome of the vote tomorrow, we will be clear that personal use without profit should not be criminalised. acta will not provide access to private computers, music players, etc. that is a clear message from parliament. as regards criminal law, we must vote for the green alternative proposal if we do not want to have some kind of image that we could suddenly introduce criminal law at european level. we have no mandate whatsoever to do such a thing. the question is whether it would work and how it could balance a scale of punishment in one country when the scale of punishment in another country would actually go completely wrong. so doing it on an international level does not seem to be working at all. that is why the green proposals are better. the original proposal states that no exemptions should be made for travellers. it is not reasonable to equate a traveller who brings goods worth up to eur 400 with a businessman who can bring 50 containers. in particular, it is not reasonable to vote against the rules on qualitative content online, qualitative statistics regulating content and, in addition, secondary liability and liability of intermediaries. in order to get more people to vote for the green resolution, we will table an oral amendment to delete article 15, which was apparently a bit controversial, and i hope that many will support our proposal, thank you!
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is a very, very broad topic. it's about everything from, as i talked about earlier, medicines, to car parts, to designer products and illegal downloading. it is clear that counterfeiting is a major problem in this area and that it threatens valuable assets and even security. but there is a lack of clarity about the actual value of these products and how much of it is available on the european market. that is why i think the commission's inquiry is a very good one. i have chosen to focus on acta, the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, the trade agreement currently being negotiated between the united states, japan, the european union and other countries. that is a case of too much closeness. we all react to rumors about what's going on. there are legitimate concerns, ranging from the need to search computers at border controls to mp3 players. we've heard rumors of a ban on region-free dvd players. i would argue that this uncertainty, these rumors themselves, are damaging the fight against piracy, the fight against counterfeiting. that is why i think that we all here in the house are calling for more openness. we need to know more clearly what mandate is really behind this, what the commission wants to achieve and what it is unable to accept. i myself focused in my amendments to the report, which i was fortunate to have heard, on what we do not want to see in acta. i pointed out in particular that we must not have measures which restrict personal privacy, that we must not go beyond the existing legislation in this area and, last but not least, that it must not inhibit innovation and competition. it is a pity, however, that in such an important area we have to define what we should not do when there is so much important work to be done. but the reason for that is precisely the secrecy, the uncertainty that secrecy creates. we must not get ourselves into a situation where the fight against this, the tools we take to our aid are bigger problems than the piracy itself. that's what i'm worried about. thank you so much!
mr president, many of our colleagues want to vote in favour of the idea in the green resolution not to make internet providers and telecom providers responsible for the content on the internet and so on, but many of those colleagues who want to vote in favour of the green resolution do not like paragraph 15, which is related to another subject. in a spirit of christmas compromise, we would like, in an oral amendment, to withdraw paragraph 15 from our resolution, in order to enable more people to vote for it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to reduce the number of member states' contributions to the eu by half. the bulk of eu money goes to unnecessary or socioeconomically harmful activities, including agricultural policy, the cohesion fund, fisheries policy and support for various forms of information campaigns. in addition, there are the costs of the european parliament's commuting between strasbourg and brussels and of institutions such as the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, which should be closed down immediately. agricultural policy is particularly reprehensible. the money goes from consumers to often very wealthy recipients. farmers in the world's poorest countries are losing out to competition from eu subsidised farmers. the member states are constantly being reminded by various eu institutions of the importance of reducing public spending. at the same time, this house is constantly demanding increased expenditure at eu level. this is baroque. public expenditure by member states is directed at schools, health care, research, infrastructure and support for vulnerable groups in society. the bulk of eu spending is spent on a crazy agricultural policy, misguided structural funds and funding of institutions ripe for closure. our rejection of the budget proposal should be interpreted as a demand for a sharp cut in eu budget expenditure and a halving of the member states' eu contribution.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the draft regulation should be adopted by the council on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. the report contains many good recommendations, not least on measures to facilitate the mobility of students and workers within the member states. however, we do not consider that the recommendations which are intended to influence the curricula of the member states are compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. the number of hours of physical education per week of study and the possible inclusion of media literacy in national curricula are best decided by the member states themselves.
in writing. the committee on culture and education wants to make a fresh contribution to the field of education. we in the junilist group would like to point out once again in this house that education policy is a policy area for which the member states have political responsibility. as always, the european parliament's committee on culture is very imaginative in its reports. this report again addresses the question of school sports. the proposal for paragraph 4 takes the view that the curriculum should provide for at least three sports lessons per week. this is yet another example of how eu politicians and officials go into all areas and all levels of detail in their eagerness to centralize political power. subsidiarity is celebrated in the party talk but never respected in the political practice. we believe that the european parliament has nothing to do with this area and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we share some of the concerns people have about the developments that frontex is opposing. we do not think that frontex should be militarized and therefore voted for amendment no 2. frontex should not mean that the eu is building higher walls against the outside world, but it is important for us that the eu states promote a generous refugee and migration policy. however, we welcome the discussion on frontex to which this case has contributed in the european parliament. it is positive that the european parliament has instructed frontex to include the fight against trafficking in human beings in its mandate and also to ensure that ec law is consistent with the international law otherwise applicable in this area, in order to enable the eu to intervene as effectively as possible to help people in need.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' in the definition of motor vehicles. the committee's report and the alternative motion for a resolution, however, unjustifiably advocate far-reaching legislation at eu level to tackle the problems of counterfeiting. the junilist is opposed in particular to the proposals for the coordination of the activities of the judicial and police authorities and the harmonisation of the criminal law of the individual member states. for these reasons, we consider it necessary to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the responsibility for these challenges lies with the un. we are strongly critical of all the texts in the report which advocate the continued development of the eu's military capability and have therefore voted against the report.
