the circular economy is fundamental if we in the eu are to achieve our green ambitions, but also our goal of becoming climate neutral by 2050. if we are to make the transition to a more sustainable society, we must rearrange the entire chain, from production and consumption to waste.
while people are starving, starving in parts of the world, we consume 90 million tons of food waste every year, and much of it is gone before it even gets on our plates.
we know that we have microplastics that are going into our oceans and poisoning our ecosystems, and we know that climate emissions are far beyond what the paris agreement allows.
45% of all co2 emissions are somehow attributable to the production of materials and their recycling.
but it also means that we are talking about a key issue in the climate issue.
it requires a holistic approach, starting with product design, because that is where 80% of the environmental impact of products is determined.
let us make europe the centre of sustainable product innovation, the world's workbench for everything that is designed to last, be reusable and be recycled!
this would certainly lead to abuse and not to a sustainable europe.
investments in research, development and digitalisation as prerequisites for climate protection will certainly be the focus here too.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment.
when european companies relocate their production and thus jobs abroad, to asia, because of too strict climate protection or environmental requirements, and produce more environmentally harmful products there, this is called carbon leakage.
if these measures are to be scaled down now, if they are to be restricted, then this will have exactly two effects: firstly, production and jobs are being moved to asia in the midst of the crisis, and secondly, production is being made in asia that is more harmful to the environment.
the report by the committee on the environment is therefore counterproductive in two respects.
the co2 compensation mechanism has three noble objectives: the first is to protect our european companies from unfair competition from foreign firms with lower environmental standards.
until we have an internationally agreed price for co2, the existing carbon leakage scheme must remain, especially with the free allocation of allowances.
for too long in europe we have left it up to business to ensure that its actions do not harm people or the environment.
only if you act boldly now will the eu's economic future be a future that respects the environment and human rights.
it is the only way to solve the problems of our time, whether it is the climate crisis, exploitation or human rights violations, it is the only way to solve all of them.
my member state has already benefited from the predecessor programme in the fields of recycling, renewable energy and cancer research.
with the focus on sustainable infrastructure, especially smes in the area of financing, but also in the area of equity, as well as research, development and digitisation, it will certainly be possible to achieve a great leverage effect and that the 32.6 million more than tenfold will be summarily an important step for our companies to survive this terrible pandemic economically.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the committee on industry, research and energy will of course do everything possible to ensure that the funds agreed in the multiannual financial framework are also fully reflected in the annual programmes, because only by making smart investments will we be able to achieve reconstruction.
air pollution is one of the biggest environmental health risks in europe.
it's very nice to talk about such an important topic where we have really big challenges together, like sealing the soil or how we can collectively store carbon in the soil.
this post-brexit agreement is a strong foundation to mitigate the negative impact of brexit on workers, the environment and the economy and it is not the end, it is also a beginning.
it upholds the high eu standards it upholds social standards, consumer protection standards, it respects the climate objectives of the paris agreement, and it is also a continuation of cooperation in research such as in the horizon europe programme.
i am thinking in particular of security, health, climate change, where we need all of us and our allies to make the european union's position in the world count.
brexit is an end; the united states of europe is the beginning of the future - a determined, innovative, courageous and free european union, which will stand up for its place in the world, which will take up the fight against climate change and win.
the life programme is a key instrument of european environmental and climate policy, and since 1992 it has funded more than 4 500 projects.
it's about protecting our nature, it's about more biodiversity, it's about fighting climate change, and it's about more renewable energy.
the budget includes eur 3.5 billion for environmental activities and another eur 1.9 billion for climate action, with up to 75% of the funding for specific projects.
i have to say, madam president, the energy system of tomorrow must and will look completely different from what we know today.
and this is not just about decarbonising energy-intensive sectors - which we talk about a lot - but also about using it as an energy storage medium, because it can store large amounts of energy over a long period of time and also transport it over longer distances.
and while the race for the most efficient technologies is on in research, we also need to invest in solutions that are already commercially viable, namely clean hydrogen from renewable energy.
we need to make sure that every euro of funding goes into the future of the energy system instead of the past, because that's the only way we're going to achieve the goals of the green deal.
with the just transition fund, we are taking a really tangible step towards a climate-neutral europe.
investments can be made in community and social projects such as care and elderly care facilities, energy-efficient social housing or mobility solutions and sustainable public transport.
the construction of a kindergarten will be possible, as will the promotion of culture and sustainable tourism projects.
the health and social consequences of climate change and environmental degradation are becoming more and more severe.
it is therefore all the more important that we take seriously the risks of climate change and the impact on our ecosystems, including from the point of view of the most vulnerable groups, and that we protect those who are particularly committed to environmental protection.
the conservation of biodiversity and environmental quality is not just a clever idea, it is one of our fundamental duties.
climate agreements must therefore recognise a clean and healthy environment as a human right.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
environmental factors account for one in eight deaths in the eu and one in seven worldwide.
it is not possible for companies operating in europe, inside and outside the union, to destroy the environment and then make a profit from it.
clear rules are therefore needed to prevent, remedy and punish damage to the environment caused by companies.
this ecosystem will strengthen the capacities of the cybersecurity technology community, support the resilience of our economy and society from cyberattacks, maintain research excellence and reinforce the competitiveness of eu industry in this field.
on behalf of the commission i congratulate and thank rasmus andresen as the rapporteur, and his shadow rapporteurs, as well as the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their work in reaching an agreement.
this new ecosystem and investment in cybersecurity technology is one cornerstone of our new cybersecurity strategy.
we are helping smes and at the same time protecting people and the environment, in a balanced approach that, while protecting businesses, does not forget people.
the better regulation agenda will help us to create legislation that does not burden businesses, protects people and the climate, and reduces red tape.
according to the climate clock, there are only 6 years 207 days 17 hours and a few minutes left to act effectively.
man has no right to exploit the environment without restraint.
the eu biodiversity strategy can help us to achieve the recognition of a clean environment as a human right and the protection of biodiversity as a societal responsibility.
i am particularly pleased that, one year after the european commission presented the biodiversity strategy, we, as the european parliament, can now present our ideas here.
we must now see whether all these proposed measures really have an effect, whether we can actually implement them and whether they really increase biodiversity.
sustainable forestry offers a great opportunity and a small risk to contribute to climate change here.
because we cannot have europe becoming as green and sustainable as ever, but we cannot produce enough food for ourselves in europe and we have to rely on imports from third countries.
and if production conditions in third countries are not respected and do not meet our standards, and this further destroys the environment, then this is not the biodiversity strategy we want.
i hope that with our biodiversity strategy at home, we will be able to create this middle ground, to continue to lead europe as a frontrunner and to take our ideas with us to the rest of the world.
due to the negative impact of the pandemic on the economic prosperity of the european union, we also should also use the potential of the next generation eu programme and support the member states in the initiatives to adapt to digital and climate transitions.
but also in the area of sustainability, the eib has already developed and defined a clear strategy.
sustainability also means that the transformation succeeds and that the employment and competitiveness of the european economy are also safeguarded in the face of change.
the loss of biodiversity and climate change is unfortunately well documented, as is the continued contamination of our water and soil by environmental toxins such as pesticides.
but this parliament is ambitious and progressive, and i therefore welcome this eighth environmental action programme, which builds on the green deal.
just as important as the climate targets already agreed are binding research objectives for our member states, which must be at least 3% of gdp.
this 'fit for 55' climate package is the madness of this european commission, in words and figures.
this climate package is not just badly thought out, it shows the complete detachment of the eu elites and the whole thing under commission president von der leyen.
climate change is not being stopped by even half a degree.
and the pollution, it's getting worse!
(introduction to speech with microphone off) ... it's really about the commitment to implementing the climate goals.
we need to prevent climate change.
the only way to prevent even worse disasters is to reduce co2 emissions.
and yes, the changes of recent years, especially climate change, the thawing of the northern sea route for shipping, are also increasingly moving this region into the center of world politics: the russian military build-up, china's investment in ports on the northern sea route.
climate change may also have an impact on the balance of power, but -- and this is the very, very important point -- the arctic should and must remain the low-tension zone that it is now.
but the arctic is also a region where climate change is hitting three times the global average.
the retreat of the ice, the impact on biodiversity and the impact on the habitat of four million people living in the arctic are important here.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a lesson to be learned from the current surge in fossil fuel prices, it is that we must accelerate our transition to renewable energy, which has become the most competitive on the market, and to energy efficiency.
our addiction to fossil fuels was already climate- and geopolitically unsustainable, and it has also become an economic handicap.
unlike emmanuel macron and mr grudler, it is not the increased use of nuclear energy, whose costs have become prohibitive and whose timelines are completely unpredictable, that will solve the problem.
in the short term, however, this surge in prices and, in the medium term, the cost of investments in the energy transition raise the central question of solidarity, because we cannot accept that once again it is our fellow citizens with the weakest shoulders who end up paying the lion's share of the effort.
in belgium, the increase in energy bills is expected to reach at least 100 euros per month for a household with two children.
in the face of this energy crisis, it is first and foremost up to the member states to respond to the emergency, in particular by using the additional tax revenues to guarantee and extend the preferential social tariff and to put in place direct aid targeted at the most affected households.
the ambition of the green deal for europe must be to make the european union the world champion of the ecological transition.
but as you know, producing sustainable and fair is more expensive than dirty and unfair.
if it were the other way round, we would not be facing the environmental and social challenges of this century.
ladies and gentlemen, without social justice, the ecological transition will not take place.
without an ecological transition, it is our societies that will collapse.
like the ecsc in its day, the single electricity market, revised just three years ago to reduce the risk of power cuts through interconnection of networks, is precisely causing one, even in countries such as france, which has become self-sufficient in the long term thanks to efficient and low-carbon nuclear energy.
similarly, the european union, which has only the word value on its lips, causes unprecedented speculation on the price of gas - more than 170% in one year - partly russian-german gas, while putting russia out of the nations, and gives its full meaning of cryptocurrency to carbon, which has increased from 10 to 60 euros per ton in one year, even though co2 is a rare gas, valued at 0.04% of fresh air.
what about the 750 billion in the green deal, partly paid for by european taxpayers, which is attracting all the greed and favours renewable energies, the limits of which are already known?
for the taxpayer, it is already energy poverty.
so let the member states manage their energy mix as they see fit and not share the dead ends.
energy prices are the key to the green deal's acceptance.
if in some countries 60% of electricity prices are caused by the state, then the member states have so far benefited heavily from any increase in energy prices.
the first consequence must be that the countries must reduce their electricity taxes and abolish special levies such as those on renewable energy.
the second consequence must be that we use emissions trading.
the third message to the same address: make the energy transition affordable.
and last but not least, the transition to renewable energy is only affordable with colourful hydrogen.
we need a european hydrogen import strategy that combines green energy imports with technology transfer and development aid.
ladies and gentlemen, relying solely on green hydrogen from europe is the direct route to the energy crisis.
the task of the european women in this parliament is quite clear: let us finally complete the energy transition.
renewable energy means, above all, energy self-determination.
this is the consequence of the energy policy of the last decades.
and if we want to guarantee energy supply, then we also need to invest in renewable energy storage.
and we need to get better at energy efficiency.
all those who now claim that we need more gas to guarantee energy security in europe are simply wrong because they are simply ignoring the issue of dependence.
we will never be able to guarantee the energy security they want with gas.
the only way to achieve european energy independence is to switch to renewable energy sources.
and even though it was about price, and what we can do to make the energy transition socially sustainable, i firmly believe that the most socially sustainable environmental transition is the one that doesn't take as much out of the pockets of those people who have the least in the first place.
and that means that a socially acceptable, ecological energy transition must always be accompanied by a tax relief for the people.
the security of energy supply must be affordable and secure for all citizens in the future.
secondly, and this is even more important to me, we must achieve greater energy independence in europe in the coming years.
in this house we agree on one thing: our system must be moved from a fossil system to a renewable energy system.
this is a matter of energy policy with common sense.
we need not just empty ideas, but a wide range of approaches, whether it be the promotion of green biogas, fuel from renewable resources or energy generation, electricity generation from water or wind energy.
another way for me to do that is to generate energy in my own home, on my own roof, and store it, to become truly independent.
i would like to ask you to take these points seriously, to make climate policy sustainable for europe, for our world, to solve these problems, including the problems of the future.
the debate this morning makes it clear that the future of energy must not only be clean, but also affordable.
powerful and clean energy is not either-or, it's a both-and-also.
to achieve this - both clean and affordable - we need to focus on true technology neutrality in the 'fit for 55' climate change package.
whether the energy is stored in hydrogen, biofuels or synthetic fuels is of secondary importance.
as greens, we welcome this objective, because we need a sustainable food strategy, and we need a profound change - we all know that.
i call on all supporters to make sustainable change truly possible, across the entire supply chain from the farm to the table.
the 2022 budget is more climate-related than any other eu budget.
we have, after all, agreed here in the house to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55%.
these new cooperation projects are essential to achieving our european objectives - such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions, advancing digitalisation or better managing future pandemics.
energy prices are rising all over europe, and the coming winter will be the test of whether we can manage to make the response to climate change a socially just response, whether we can manage to make the response to climate change socially just.
we have to prevent energy poverty.
that means we need a package of measures: temporary reductions in energy taxes, improving stocks, independence from imports from abroad, the expansion of renewable energy and fast-track energy, and energy saving and energy efficiency must also be at the top of the agenda.
if we are to combat energy poverty and rising energy prices, we must now also invest in a massive expansion of renewable energy.
the facts about climate change are clear: we're running out of time.
cop26 must become a climate revolution.
whether it's multinationals against environmental groups, governments against critical journalism, or brands against animal welfare groups, the common denominator is: it's about the abuse of power and the strangulation of critical voices that play such an important role in the health of our democracies.
but on the whole, unfortunately, such agreements will do little good if the eu commission continues with its plans to dismantle european industry under the guise of climate protection.
the objectives of the new cap would have been very, very important for all of us, as the largest budget line of the european union, to ensure that the cap makes a decisive contribution to combating climate change and to ensuring greater sustainability and biodiversity, to make europe more independent of food imports and to strengthen regional development and regionality.
what is the value of climate action that is so far from what we need?
it's a place of climate diplomacy, and in diplomacy, revolutionary events are known to be difficult and rather rare.
this climate diplomacy has value in itself, and it's worth it.
what we lack are fellow activists: fellow activists who want to share best practices, who want to work together on climate-neutral trade, who want to work together on emissions trading, for example.
because the best thing for the climate is not that we are the least bad, but that we are all doing better.
we must see that there is a fair balance, that there is a solution, that we can take action here and not wait and not waste the vaccine doses that are still lacking.
this year's report on the state of the energy union shows two of the most important phenomena or processes.
firstly, the ongoing energy transition, the commissioner said, in 2020, for the first time, renewable energy will overtake fossil fuels as the main source of electricity in the union.
the share of renewable energy in the overall energy mix will reach at least 22%, although we know that some member states will fall short of the target.
the commission's response to the challenge of energy price volatility requires stronger action, especially as the report shows that 31 million people in the european union were affected by energy poverty in 2019. it seems to me that the proposed toolbox is not enough, as are the announced changes in legislation to ensure greater access to gas storage and increase capacity through the revision of the sos regulation and i think we should change our attitude towards gas as a transition fuel.
therefore, regulatory arrangements should be introduced in the upcoming ets revision to limit uncontrolled price increases and to limit the participation in emissions trading to entities directly covered by the scheme.
mr president, the state of the energy union shows that we are going in the right direction with the transformation and decarbonisation of our energy systems, and that we have a resilient and competitive system, despite price increases.
we should now give the right direction for our industries because this should deliver the transformational change needed across our economy, society, industry and, of course, our energy systems.
the state of the energy union shows us that energy efficiency must be prioritised, together with the widespread application of the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle.
an energy sector in the future must be developed largely on renewable sources, complemented by the rapid phasing—out of coal, and also by decarbonising gas.
at the same time, the eu’s energy supply needs to be secure and affordable for consumers and businesses.
and we are still extremely far away from a truly modern, innovative, decentralized energy supply.
we have been negotiating with the council again last night on the european energy infrastructure and it has become clear again that the really innovative approaches are once again completely lagging behind.
for businesses dependent on these large platforms, they can now operate in a fair environment, allowing them to compete and in turn provide more choice for our consumers.
for this reason, the measures in tirol are emergency measures for people, the environment and infrastructure, because we are at the limit.