finally, it is encouraging that the own-initiative report highlights the role of greater integration of services markets in achieving social and sustainability objectives.
it goes without saying that services can and must contribute to increasing the sustainability and resilience of our industrial ecosystems while respecting the principles of the circular economy and the objectives of our green deal.
it is also clear that the objectives of the single market and social and environmental policy can and must go hand in hand for genuinely sustainable development.
we must align these projects with our environmental objectives and therefore, in the context of the transeuropean transport network, give priority to the full deployment of alternative fuels.
by speaking in unison as democratic allies, our words and actions can be strengthened in the face of the existential challenges that we face: autocrats like putin, challenges related to the tech revolution, violent islamic extremism and the threat of climate change.
a president who wants to strengthen democracy, who believes in multinationalism, who wants to be a force for climate action.
take the opportunity with biden-harris, with a climate-focused eu commission.
make sure to fill the transatlantic climate cooperation and make sure we have a future together that is even better.
i will cite two: global action on climate change, building on the paris agreement, and a global transatlantic agreement on digital and data, including the taxation of the web giants.
the announcement by the new president that he will immediately rejoin the paris agreement on climate change is good news.
a new era is opening up, which offers opportunities to strengthen these fraternal and almost carnal relations, including, certainly, in relation to the climate, the fight against global warming.
i hope you will find support for mercosur, with additional commitments to sustainability and forest management.
young people today are desperate, the short-term reality is rather bleak, in the medium term it is hardly any better and in the long term it is quite dark, anxiety-producing, in any case, especially linked to the fight against global warming.
we cannot consider free trade agreements any more, and i am in favour of free trade, regardless of the impact on the climate.
it's an opportunity for green energy renewal and transition that will help reduce energy poverty in the future.
the reconstruction process must be comprehensive, high-quality, with an emphasis on earthquake-resistant but also sustainable construction.
the commission stands ready to assist croatia in any way it can to achieve a sustainable and comprehensive recovery.
our efforts to build a more sustainable economy and society through digital innovation depends to a large extent on women’s involvement.
this is a waste of human capital.
our employees earn a fair wage and have the right to a working environment that guarantees the protection of their health and safety.
energy overdependence, divergent strategies of the member states towards a vaccine, and russia’s very active role in disinformation campaigns and support for anti-european forces should be on our ‘to do’ list for the next council meeting.
the eu should be aware that russia's vaccines will be used as its energy is used: as a cynical weapon, we'll get you out.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
or are they simply an environment in a place where everything is possible and can happen?
i think we need a coherent definition of that, and only then could we perhaps be consistent in our calls and, most importantly, successful in our efforts to create a just and a good environment, good rules for platforms that most importantly safeguard our fundamental rights and values.
(applause)
mr president, an ambitious climate policy, which we support, must always take account of the competitiveness of our companies, the preservation of our jobs and the pocketbooks of the citizens.
a carbon cap tax can help protect our companies from carbon leakage.
and the carbon cap tax should be embedded in the wto policy framework.
finally, we ask you to speak to the united states now that the carbon limit correction mechanism seems to be a priority, or at least an intention, of the new president.
this agreement will also support the development of medical products that is less harmful for the environment.
we welcome the maintenance of this rule for at least the next year and until the recovery is firm, and we believe that we should take advantage of these months to thoroughly revise the budgetary rules, because no one believes any more that we can go back to the old rules and we need to provide the union as a whole with a countercyclical budgetary policy that is sustainable.
that is why we in the committee on budgets are calling for better consideration of social issues in connection with the recovery of employment, environmental priority, greater fiscal coordination, poverty reduction and gender equality.
this rebound, this new impetus, will be supported by a multiannual budget and an ambitious european recovery plan, offering member states funding opportunities for the environmental and social dimension of the european union.
madam president, if we want to regain the growth we lost long before the health crisis, and if you want this growth to be sustainable, liberate and protect, then both conditions must be met.
in addition, your imposition of ever more demanding environmental constraints and standards, with a green pact for europe with unrealizable objectives, obviously weighs heavily on our companies, our industries and our farmers and producers.
investing in childrearing or caring for a family member is a value in itself, but it also has its own quantifiable value for our economy and the sustainability of the social system.
– madam president, this debate has shown once again that we are striving for the same goal: a sustainable and inclusive recovery today and economic and social upward convergence today and tomorrow.
as i said at the beginning, and has been reinforced in the course of this debate, social europe must be at the heart of a sustainable recovery.
an effective and coherent economic, budgetary and social governance has to lead us out of this crisis and prepare the path towards sustainable growth.
the european semester now integrates the united nations sustainable development goals, adding environmental and climate aspects into this analysis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for the two reports that have been presented today and also for the comments that have been made, which are valuable contributions to the discussions currently taking place in the council, both in relation to recovery and resilience plans, economic recovery, social and employment policies, health policies, strengthening the all-important single market and the dual digital and climate transition.
there is also a consensus that the clause should remain active until 2022. we also believe that appropriate measures to support people should be maintained for as long as necessary, promoting cohesion and convergence, promoting social and equality policies, alongside sustainability and digital innovation.
if we do not change our basic policy, all public spending is at risk of going to waste.
the summit will focus on how to strengthen europe's social dimension to meet the challenges of climate change and the digital transition, and send a clear signal that the union is promoting policies that put people and their well-being at the centre of its concerns.
to those children who are mistreated by justice, who are sick because of air pollution, to those who want to be actors of their destiny.
they also benefit from low taxation and, in addition, from no environmental liability.
global warming caused by our production models is adding to this disaster.
but this strategy must impose social and environmental responsibility on companies.
to achieve the goals of climate change, equal rights, fighting poverty -- we're not going to get there unless we're together, unless we're on board.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the recommendation for the second reading of the dan nica, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the establishment of horizon europe, setting out the rules for participation in it and its dissemination (07064/2/2020 - c9-0111/2021 - 2018/0224(cod) (a9-0122/2021), the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, the specific programme implementing horizon europe, on the framework programme for research and innovation (com (2018) 0368 - c0425/2018 - 2018/0225 (cns)), on the value of innovation and innovation in the european energy and technology area, and the report by maria graça (com (2019) 0329) - 2019/01 (cod) on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for innovation and innovation, on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for innovation and innovation, on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for innovation and innovation, and on the european commission's 2019-2020 programme for energy and climate change, on the c022021-2020 (com (2019) 0321)).
we will spend 35% of the budget on fighting climate change, we have completely new instruments, we have opened up new audiences, we have completely refocused on innovation.
the importance of the creative industries, of artists, but also of the link between the digital sphere and creativity for innovation on climate change cannot be overstated.
that we are already in the forefront of initiatives like president ursula von der leyen's new bauhaus, that we are turning climate change, from a dystopia, into a utopia, that climate change is an opportunity, that we are reflecting the green deal, the economic opportunities that are associated with tackling climate change.
this is not an abstract goal; we simply have to look at the competitive situation in the world: the united states, which is highly knowledgeable about climate change, spends more than 3% of its gdp on research, china almost 5%, japan well over 3%, israel almost 5%, korea 4.6%.
without a common european research policy, we are falling back on the privilege of the few who can spend a lot and on the problems of the many, so to speak, who must all work together to meet the challenges of climate change, digitalisation and greater competitiveness.
we will devote 35% of funding to climate transition-related research and innovation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
these days, we have seen more than ever that joint ventures are of great importance when we speak about health, clean energy and economic recovery.
and to use people, so to speak, where it is about interpretation, the analysis of the corresponding data, and not that we have to waste resources - in the true sense of the word - to physically get to data.
to wrap up, i really am convinced and proud that for the next seven years we have reinforced the egf, which is much better equipped to support people who have lost their jobs and to return them to sustainable employment.
she did a great job and she managed to get support for even more workers throughout europe and to help them to return to sustainable employment in these times of need, and i think this is very much appreciated, so thank you for that, vilija.
our main points are clearly reflected in this agreement: a broader scope for redundancies due to digitalisation, climate transition and brexit.
what we do not support, however, is that the european union should collect these taxes and then waste them on its many useless institutions and inefficient policies.
mr president, fraud corrupts society and is a waste of public funds.
the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european defence fund and repealing regulation (eu) 2018/1092 (06748/1/2020 c9 0112/2021 - 2018/0254 (cod)) (rapporteur: zdzisław krasnodębski (a9-0120/2021) is closed.
our project is not just about goods and services, but also about the freedom of men and women who must be able to choose to work in the healthy and stable environment of their country.
political, social and economic instability resulting from climate change, sunken islands and pollution are now known factors for migration.
by refusing to deport a bangladeshi national to his country of origin because of air pollution, the bordeaux court of appeal's decision will make history.
prohibiting refoulement in the name of the fundamental right to life means guaranteeing humanitarian protection to anyone whose livelihood is being destroyed by climate change.
humanitarian visas, temporary or long-term admissions, the definition of safe and regular migration channels, adaptation to climate change and protection of internally displaced persons in the countries concerned are all levers available to the european union to ensure this protection, without risking to reopen the geneva convention to recognize a new category of refugees.
let 's not waste any more time .
after the recent bombing of kurds and armenians, one would think that the euro-bonzes would realize that turkey is a warmonger and not a partner in creating a stable and secure climate in the eastern mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tereos sugar factory in northern france has caused a major ecological disaster by breaking a dam in the decantation basin, causing enormous pollution of the river eixample.
another company, clarebout in wallonia, which offers the world famous belgian frozen, industrial, pesticide-laden fries, has a poor environmental record.
these are two examples in my own region of picardy wallonia, among many others, which have dramatic consequences for nature, biodiversity and the lives of the inhabitants and workers concerned.
our report aims to take environmental crime more into account, to strengthen legal instruments to combat such crimes, including criminal liability, and to ensure access to justice and reparation for ecosystems and human victims of crimes that have become almost as lucrative as drug trafficking, and therefore cannot enjoy any impunity.
in this report, we call in particular for the 2004 and 2008 directives on environmental liability and environmental crime to be revised, for ecocide to be included in european law, i.e.
the recognition of crimes against ecosystems, for the mandate of the european public prosecutor's office to be extended to environmental crimes, and for victims to have better access to justice, in line with the modernisation of the aarhus regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ipbes, which is the ipcc equivalent of biodiversity, is sounding the alarm: up to 827,000 viruses found in nature such as covid-19 could impact humans.
thank you, mr luena, rapporteur for the 'biodiversity' strategy, for including the recommendations in my opinion, which focus on the interactions between international trade and biodiversity, as no less than one third of species are threatened with extinction because of international trade.
the levers are there: respect for biodiversity in trade agreements through prior impact assessments and sanctions for non-compliance, the fight against illegal wildlife trade and a moratorium on all imports of animal species from countries at risk, the elimination of investments harmful to the environment, the recognition and punishment of ecocides.
we call on the european commission to implement these recommendations to ensure policy coherence on the international stage and to position europe as a leader by the time of the world biodiversity summit in october.
i hope that we can create a safer, more transparent, more equal environment for the next generation of women who will enter politics, for our daughters.
because the many strong politicians, many of whom sit in this parliament, deserve a safe and hopeful working environment.
we ask our farmers to ensure our food self-sufficiency, to provide us with healthy and quality food and to produce in a more sustainable and animal welfare-friendly way.
i firmly believe that the green transition and the digital transition both bring new opportunities in new and in established industries, from sustainable tourism to sustainable transport, and from renewable energy networks to batteries.
let’s keep monitoring and developing a new, more sustainable and more cohesive europe for all our citizens.
the erdf focuses its support on a number of high priority areas such as innovation and research, digitalisation, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the low-carbon economy.
i am pleased that the cohesion fund can also support energy and transport projects in the field of environmental protection, provided that they have clear environmental benefits in terms of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy, the development of rail transport, the strengthening of public transport, etc.
however, nothing should diminish the ambition of the eu's fundamental goal of cohesion: neither the repercussions of the uk's exit from the eu, nor the consequences of the climate situation or the covid-19 pandemic.
in this way, romania has a historic chance to implement investment programmes through sustainable growth and job creation.
this new package, which has the largest budget allocated in the financial budget for the period 2021-2027, should place greater emphasis on social programmes and sustainable urban development, as well as on climate action, thus aligning with the sustainability objectives of the european green deal.
under the new common provisions regulation, both interreg and the erdf will now have to channel at least 30% of their resources to climate action, the circular economy and investments in sustainable growth and job creation.
the good news is that 10 percent of europe's emissions are already being captured by europe's forests.
in addition to being a place of recreation and biodiversity, our forest is also one of our most active climate protectors.
i am therefore particularly pleased that this climate protection law recognises for the first time that natural co2 reductions in agriculture and forestry are also genuine climate protection measures.
i think this is a long overdue step in the assessment of the climate performance of agriculture and forestry.
ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the climate law in its present form will only encourage farmers and foresters to do more to grow humus and to make agriculture more sustainable.
this will allow us to increase our sink yields and achieve the goal of climate neutrality.
that is why i am in favour of a carbon market for agriculture.
this will enable us to store even more co2, promote sustainable agriculture and forestry and maintain attractive rural areas.
madam president, mr vice-president, the european union is the first region in the world to have a climate law because it is right, because it is time and because not to act now would be more than a mistake, a real political mistake.
the 2030 target is clear: 55% reduction in co2 emissions and carbon neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
the target is even better, with 57% less by 2030 if we increase land-use carbon sinks, knowing, it should be remembered, that the main natural carbon sinks are our oceans and they concentrate 50 times more than the atmosphere.
i come to what i wanted to say this morning, here, it is essential, therefore, that europe does not forget the other battle for the planet: that of plastic pollution that is suffocating our oceans.
booming plastics, cheap, durable, little or no recycling, that's the other threat to the climate.
this european climate law is not enough: we are heading for a temperature increase of 2-3 degrees celsius, and the next 10 years are crucial, and europe is not doing enough.
the truth is that we have no choice and for that reason, in my heart of hearts, i cannot vote for this european climate law and with the greens/efa group i will vote against it.
president, the european union wants to cut greenhouse gas emissions by half with a climate law.
after all, we must be "climate neutral" by 2050. so we're going to be hurting ourselves economically, and in large parts of the world, there's no effort.
so while the climate-neutral nuclear power stations in belgium are being closed down, coal is being bravely continued.
the purple-green government in our country even opts for gas-fired power stations, which do emit greenhouse gases.
so let's look at europe, which is responsible for less than ten percent of emissions.
the impact on the global climate is therefore negligible.
what a climate hysteria!
it sets ambitious reduction targets by 2030, by 2050, through this climate law, which is kind of the cornerstone of the green deal.
it is unthinkable that tomorrow we will continue to negotiate trade agreements at european level without taking account of the real impact of greenhouse gases.
at the very least, the analysis, and beyond the analysis, the ambition is also to actually impose these elements in the reduction of greenhouse gases.
madam president, today can be described as a great historic green day for the european union, because 71 years after the historic schuman declaration and 54 years after the founding of the european union, it is a great historic milestone that, through the adoption of the climate law, lays the foundations for the green transition.
today, in fact, is the beginning of the great green revolution of the european union, which is becoming a leader and a pioneering green power, because it first set this big and enormously ambitious goal to make our own continent climate neutral by 2050. the european union was the first of all the powers on the planet to set a target of reducing that incredible 55 percent of carbon emissions by 2030, and the european union was the first to make the big green deal with hundreds of billions to go to a just green transition.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment.
i come from a small country, cyprus, which i believe can become the first green country in the european union, can become the first green island because it has the potential, because of the strong comparative advantages it has in terms of climatic conditions, to develop renewable energy sources and because there is the will and determination of the citizens and the government to turn cyprus into a model green island.
i believe our analysis is stronger today than it was a year ago because of the change in the international climate.
we have a climate pact with japan.
so i say without any reservation at least 55% by 2030 sets us on a course to climate neutrality by 2050 and we lead the way for the rest of the world, and i’m glad to say that the rest of the world more and more is following.
i respect that extra ambition, but i don’t understand how that can lead to a negative vote on the climate law.
whatever we do on climate with the climate law – which i think is a historic moment – whatever we do, we’ll fail if we don’t adhere to the fundamental values this european union was built upon.
if we have no equality we will not be saved by a climate law.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with great interest to this debate, which shows our common commitment to combating climate change.
this is the commitment that will make us stronger and that will lead us to climate neutrality, a path to sustainability, to innovation, but also a path that will allow us to create more jobs, new businesses, without forgetting the social challenges of this transition that has to be just.
the european climate law, the law of laws, as the vice-president said, will be the cornerstone of the green deal with an impact on all european union policies.
the law, together with the regulation on the governance of the energy union, will ensure that the european union has effective tools at its disposal to keep us on track and achieve the 2030 and 2040 and 2050 targets.
with the european climate law we are also sending a strong signal to the world, something we have already done at recent international summits.
i hope that the ambition of those who feel that more needs to be done will help the union on its way and encourage other countries to follow our example, because climate change remains a global challenge that requires action on a global scale.
just after the pre-publication of an alarming new un climate report, here is a completely inadequate climate law.
scientists say that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 65% by 2030, but the european union wants only a 55% reduction.
saying you want to save the climate, but not stopping the subsidizing of fossil fuels.
the european union naturally rejects any break with the free market, such as the notorious ets carbon market, which still distributes free emission allowances.
a climate drama, a lot of profit for big business.
this climate bill has no future.
we need a social climate revolution with ambitious climate goals, massive public investment and radical social goals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the funding for small fishing vessels up to 12 metres in length, the drawing up of a plan for the development of small-scale coastal fishing and 25% of the funds for the protection of biodiversity: these were some of the main requests parliament had approved with the aim of using european public funds to help those who really need it - the small-scale coastal fishing segment - and thus promote the protection and restoration of biodiversity in european seas.
unfortunately, we are faced with a text, once again, watered down by the council, which, as usual in an opaque way, serves the interests of the large fleet to the detriment of small fishermen and marine biodiversity.
public money cannot be used to support profitable businesses that risk contributing further to the depletion of our seas and must instead be made available to small fishermen, who are the pillars of the sustainable management of marine resources.
i therefore call on my colleagues to vote against this text: parliament must send a clear signal of its commitment to the defence of small-scale coastal fishing and the protection of biodiversity.
it will support the protection of biodiversity and the full transition to low-impact and sustainable fishing and aquaculture in line with our biodiversity strategy and the common fisheries policy.
indeed, loans and guarantees can maximise private investments with minimum public support, in particular for energy-efficiency technologies, selective fishing gear and production facilities in the aquaculture and processing sectors.
it highlights the importance of striking the right balance between sustainable solutions for our welfare systems and strengthening solidarity between the generations.
the steel and aluminium tariffs also need to be resolved in a sustainable way.
the european network and telecommunications facility plays an important role in the development of europe's energy infrastructure.
the projects have helped to create an integrated energy market.
the european energy grid is thus better equipped to deal with shocks than before.
the investments should also contribute to the promotion of decarbonisation and renewable energy sources, in line with the climate ambitions.
finally, the instrument has also proved to be a driver of energy infrastructure development in central europe.
in the new cycle, the danube ingrid smart grid project will facilitate the effective integration of renewable energy sources in hungary and slovakia.
unfortunately, the turkey chapter in the european council conclusions mostly appears to be a carbon copy of the previous european council conclusions, while erdoğan’s actions are changing.
research and innovation (r&i) are essential to enable europe’s recovery in a fair and sustainable way, bringing forward the green and digital transitions while at the same time enhancing our competitiveness and resilience, in particular taking into account the lessons learned from the covid—19 pandemic.
the eu, its member states and regions have to redouble efforts and significantly increase r&i expenditure and to align these efforts with a more ambitious eu industrial policy that is consistent with the european climate law and the goal of climate neutrality.
mr president, what a waste!
what we have also learned is that the energy and time required to deal with such a health crisis has immense implications for the mainstream health care in the member states.
because of climate change, dangerous weather events will be stronger and more frequent, with natural disasters now threatening us on a permanent basis.
thirdly, since the limitations of the solidarity fund in terms of the conditions for its activation, the amount of support and the type of disasters covered reduce its effectiveness, it is necessary to proceed with the creation of a new fund to deal with the consequences of climate change.
and if you've been crying in front of people, here, out of sight, i think you're stabbing them with this new carbon tax on transportation.
climate change is a reality and it's catching up with us fast.
europe must not lose sight of its climate ambitions.
it is therefore important to know whether the european emergency response is still appropriate for major climate disasters.
more important are the questions about climate policy.
european weather experts say we must do everything we can to stop climate change, so that what we now consider extreme does not become normal.
does the commission intend to take additional climate measures or is it still not insisting that we will not be able to cope with half-hearted climate and agricultural policies that negate this climate action?
while the climate crisis has been deepening the north-south divide for years, it is now also marking the social divide within our countries.
the social impact of the climate crisis is frontal.
the victims, the thousands of volunteers still working two months later, the european citizens for whom climate and the environment are among the main concerns, and the latest report by the ipcc scientists are all demanding answers.
investing in public services, civil protection, fire, emergency and health services, adapting policies and adopting climate change mitigation and adaptation policies that strengthen social cohesion - this is the real urgency.
the climate on our mother earth has been changing for billions of years.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the nuclear crisis.
and we have to say to ourselves that before we can take care of the environment, we have to take care of the people.
listen to all the debates we can have about global warming this morning.
i have no doubt that there may indeed be a link between what we have experienced in wallonia or germany and global warming.
we can also start yet another debate on global warming, but the urgency is elsewhere.
it is important that the european commission is attentive to this, ensuring that funds are well used for the benefit of the digital transition, the ecological transition, the modernisation of economies and therefore prosperity and growth.
at the moment, the price of energy is unbearable for businesses and households, in electricity and fuel.
we want an ambitious green transition, an ambitious digital transition, but it needs to be socially sustainable.
we need the recovery to lead to a sustainable development economy and society for europe, both environmentally and socially.
europe's green deal is without a doubt the biggest climate change programme ever put forward by an eu commission, indeed, an entire continent.
but it is precisely after this summer of climate crisis that we need more speed and ambition.
the central problem with europe's climate policy, however, is not a lack of announcements from brussels, but the huge deficit of willingness to act by the member states.
when i look at germany, i see a huge gulf between german ambition and european ambition in climate policy.
it has not even implemented the eu's more citizen energy directive on renewables.
germany is slowing down europe's ambitions in climate policy.
germany is slowing europe down to become the world's climate leader.
and that is why we now need a german federal government for european climate protection, which will become a german climate government.
and rightly so, because they underline the need to act together against climate change.
we have a massive vaccination campaign that must continue, as well as the construction of social europe, technological sovereignty, environmental transition, common defence, humanitarian corridors, protection of lgbt and women's rights.
a green, ecological and feminist future, with a transition that must be equitable territorially between the states and socially between all citizens.
without you, the climate ambition would not have been raised and it was more than necessary.
i have heard the far right in this house blame the european union's climate policy for the rise in electricity prices.
the problem with the rise in electricity prices is that there are those who triple their profits at the expense of the pockets of citizens and users and, therefore, what we have to do is to be firm in defending the fight against climate change with the policies we have to put in place, but also to look for measures to balance the profits of companies with the real cost of electricity in the market.
it has the support of our group to tackle very difficult challenges: to make the digital transition without large european digital companies; to make the green transition without causing energy poverty.
we must ensure that it is a socially oriented and sustainable recovery, with the human being at its core, with a decent job to enable people to live in dignity and provide for their families.
climate change is also a constant problem at european level, defining both our past and our future.
the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 remains a clear objective.
from a climate standpoint, this is criminal.
frankly, your european union, built by the states at the request of the european bosses, is a social disaster and a climate failure.
anything else is not sustainable.
our development policies, whether they are climate, agriculture or trade, must have one single objective: the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
however, the european commission does not sufficiently integrate the impact of trade agreements on biodiversity when negotiating with countries such as indonesia, brazil and others.
the consequences of the eu's trade policy - co2 emissions, increased agro-industrial practices, deforestation, land grabbing and pesticide use - are devastating for biodiversity and local communities.
europe must therefore put its trade at the service of sustainable development and the well-being of its people, not the other way around.
in the sustainable and smart mobility strategy, the commission reiterated its commitment to implementing the eu road safety policy framework and bringing down to close to zero the death toll for all modes of transport.
the commission fully agrees that road safety is an integral part of sustainable and smart mobility.
there can be no sustainability without safety.
when we improve the infrastructure for cyclists and pedestrians for instance, we both encourage reduction of our carbon footprint, healthy active mobility and we make it safer.
we will also update the rules on roadworthiness where we will be looking both at emissions and safety elements, as well as odometer fraud.
the work of the partnership will go hand-in-hand with policy and legislative updates needed to take full advantage of these developments for safer, more sustainable and inclusive mobility.
this will be done with the various elements i have indicated, but also with new elements, i am thinking in particular of the power of vehicles and we will find an alliance between safety and the environment because it also represents a danger for all users, especially pedestrians and cyclists.
we also need to work on an agreement on a carbon cap tax.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who would believe that we could succeed in the climate challenge without a strong agreement with the united states?
energy prices are now reminiscent of the energy crisis of the 1970s, which i think we all remember well.
or is it too little renewable energy, as some in this room claim - renewable energy, mind you, highly subsidized, which is also taxed over the price of electricity?
at least a significant part of the prices we have now is due to carbon trading.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented.
we must now respond with the same vigour to another emergency, that of the 250% increase in gas from january to today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented.
secondly: we must postpone the entry into force of all those measures which could further increase energy prices.
thirdly: we need to accelerate the environmental transition by focusing on renewables, on energy efficiency, as italy is doing with the 110% super bonus.
my colleagues, only renewable energy will make us independent of the price of fossil fuels.
let's look to the future and bet on clean energy!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the rise in energy prices.
but we are starting to say clearly and unequivocally that the increase in energy costs is not due to the transition to climate neutrality, but is linked to a series of concauses starting with the increase in global energy demand, not followed by a parallel increase in supply, which has drastically increased gas prices.
it has already been mentioned that the european union is totally affected by market dynamics and their effects, because it is dependent on imports for 90% of its gas consumption, which is still one of the primary sources of our energy mix.
that is why we must move forward without further delay, towards a green deal and the growth of renewable energy production, because they allow us to manage our energy production independently and thus have a more stable price, accessible to all and combat energy poverty.
these are initiatives which must be put into place as soon as possible we await the commission's package of measures and which cannot, and must not, make us lose sight of the objectives of the green deal: the increase in renewables, green hydrogen, real investment in energy efficiency are and remain the path to an economically and above all socially sustainable energy system.
so we need to seize this crisis to accelerate the transition to more renewable and energy efficient energy and less dependence on fossil fuels.
the second lesson is that i am surprised that no one is asking who has benefited from the increase in energy prices.
what are the revenues from the increase in the price of carbon, far beyond what we ourselves anticipate?
we are facing a serious challenge from high energy prices in the european union.
and, commissioner, there is pressure from the member states on you, for example, to weaken emissions trading and not to implement new steps on emissions trading in the 'fit for 55' package because of the current high energy prices.
we need to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy.
and we need to do that especially with the socially vulnerable by enabling them to buy energy-efficient products.
because pernille white was right when she said that energy that i don't use doesn't cost anything.
anyone who behaves in a climate-friendly way should make money.
that is why we need a smart long-term strategy with targeted aid, but we must not put european climate policy in question anywhere.
madam president, this is a very important issue on the energy prices, and more than 80% of our citizens are concerned by the energy price, and i think that is really a concern for all of us.
first of all, there are some colleagues, of course, every time trying to link it with climate change policies.
but the analysis clearly show that it’s around 80 to 85% because of the gas price and only 10 to 15% because of the carbon price.
but also in the medium and the long-term, do more on an energy union where we have joint contracts, gas contracts, with also long-term price deals and, of course, make ourselves less dependent on gas – meaning green deal, more energy efficiency, more renewables.
president, ladies and gentlemen, energy is becoming painfully expensive and yet the european union continues to rage at its unaffordable green deal, when the better option is at hand: nuclear energy, which is cheap, reliable, emits only water vapor and the waste can be safely stored in geologically stable layers.
meanwhile, for example, the united kingdom and sweden are investing in nuclear energy.
in flanders, we have a world player in scientific research with the nuclear energy research centre in mol, but the purple-green government does not explicitly encourage this.
conclusion so we have in belgium a green minister who hates nuclear energy and would rather burn a lot of gas.
many kids do not have access to education because of energy issues.
as a business employee, i saw african businesses struggle, struggling to share crucial documents because of unreliable energy sources.
today in europe, soaring energy prices are exposing families to a situation where they will not be sure they can afford to keep the light on in their homes, keep their kids warm at night or run their businesses properly.
yes, we must reduce carbon emissions.
madam president, in this disproportionate increase in the price of energy, some are losing, the households, and others are gaining, the oligopolies, who have also been capturing political decisions for years.
and now it is not worth saying that the ecological transition is to blame, because, as is well known, only 20% of the increase in the bill is related to the increase in the price of carbon.
we cannot pretend to electrify, as we need to do under the green deal, by making all energy sources pay the highest price.
the european commission is urging you to reduce vat on energy.
but do you know, commissioner, that the vat on energy in belgium is 21%?
we need to achieve sustainable debt levels in order to be able to afford to continue the countercyclical recovery and to be able to afford climate and other investments for which europe has a huge investment deficit.
the rrf process is a model for good management of public funds, and as important as looking at debt levels is how we direct our spending in different sectors so that it produces better and more efficiently, and each sector can be an investment but also a waste in this respect.
social and ecological europe must be brought back to the fore.
we need a europe that can tackle environmental, social and digital issues in order to offer european youth prospects rather than plunge into crisis.
it is therefore urgent that the european semester should give equal weight to social, environmental and digital issues as to economic issues.
but here again, the one who denies, the one who challenges the change in progress, the one who closes his eyes to climate change is putting the future on the wrong track.
we have seen this summer what climate change means for thousands and thousands of families who have lost everything, for all those people who have been victims of the consequences of climate change.
– madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and particularly the rapporteur – mr nikolaj villumsen – and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work on this important legislative own-initiative report on the protection of workers from asbestos.
the commission will also take into account the concerns expressed by parliament in the implementation of the renovation wave and the zero pollution action plan for a toxic-free environment, including by identifying and addressing possible gaps in asbestos management and here i will refer shortly to directive 2010/31/eu.
furthermore, by 2023, the commission will assess pathways and policy options to improve indoor air quality, focusing on key determinants and pollution sources, and exploring ways to raise greater public awareness and reduce risks.
moreover, the transition pathway towards a more sustainable, innovative and resilient construction ecosystem announced in the industrial strategy update will also contribute to improving the sustainability and the quality of the built environment, including its safety, and the already-announced initiative on digital building logbook may also facilitate access to information available on the presence of asbestos in buildings.
turning to the energy performance of buildings directive, its revision is expected to be adopted in december.
we will build upon the provisions to limit the use of harmful substances and favour their removal, while promoting the improvement of the energy performance of buildings and a healthy indoor environment.
as for waste, we will continue promoting and closely following technological developments in asbestos treatment and decontamination to ensure best available technologies are applied to treating asbestos waste and recovering materials into the circular economy, consistent with the european green deal objectives.
we will also look at the eu construction and demolition waste management protocol and guidelines for waste audits and aim at accelerating their update.
in addition, cohesion policy significantly helps member states and regions to invest in the renovation of buildings, to boost energy efficiency and to enhance their overall sustainability in line with the european green deal objectives.
many buildings are over 50 years old and will need to be renovated to meet climate targets.
we are going through a period of climate, economic, social, geopolitical upheaval.
budgeting means making choices about promising investments to ensure a sustainable recovery and an ambitious green and digital transition.
ladies and gentlemen, the union will only be sustainable if it is strong from within, through functioning institutions.
president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been much wisdom here, and i shall concentrate my speech today on the importance of a healthy environment in the context of public health.
the commission has already made major statements on the green deal, the action plan to reduce all pollution to zero, the new chemical strategy, the anti-cancer plan.
too often, toxic substances are dumped into rivers, dumped into our environment.
it 's clear to me: everyone has the right to a healthy environment and two principles are particularly crucial in this regard.
as the united nations human rights council recently stated, everyone has the right to a healthy environment.
madam president, you have a package of money, public money, about 10 billion, and you promised the citizens that it will be used to develop new environmental technologies, new innovative medicines, all that... and what do you do?
how can you expect our farmers, for example, to continue to accept that products imported into european territory do not meet the same health, environmental or social standards in our territory?
the same applies to climate policy: how can we achieve climate objectives without having the same requirements for these imported products?
as far as trade policy is concerned, i hope that energy policy will also be included.
some colleagues have spoken to emphasize this point, and i agree with them particularly on the energy independence which must be as strong as possible at european level.
we must of course develop renewable energy, but we must also have a strong nuclear policy and our autonomy in this area at european level, to avoid the structural problems we are currently experiencing and also to avoid being in the hands of russia in particular.
we should concentrate on the real problems: to provide sufficient and affordable energy instead of this insane green deal, to strengthen our economic leverage against china and, of course, to stop islamization and the mass migration flows.
counterfeit goods not only have negative economic impacts on european economic growth, they also mislead consumers and puts their health and safety at risk and could be detrimental to the environment.
on climate, we should now share green technologies with as many countries as possible to accelerate the climate transition.
but through patents you prefer to protect the profits of european multinationals, this time at the expense of the climate.
a sustainable partnership must be based on openness and equality.
so these farms, for sustainable development, must be an important part of european agriculture, they must be treated equally.
this could be tens of billions of euros in the first pillar through the animal welfare ecosystem, in the second pillar through welfare investments.
together with farmers, we want to change agriculture to be more environmentally friendly, more climate friendly, more animal welfare friendly, but at the same time, the common agricultural policy is more farmer friendly.
the emergency is both social and climate.
from a climate standpoint, no one believes that.
ecological regimes could well be a condition for business as usual.
secondly, we want to make progress on sustainable and digital trade.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of our trade flows are now hindering the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
in particular, international trade is responsible for 30% of our co2 emissions, 30% of greenhouse gases and the loss of biodiversity worldwide.
trade must serve the agenda of fair globalisation that respects the sustainable development goals, which are universally recognised as capable of ensuring a better and more sustainable future for all.
two important summits have just taken place, the biodiversity summit and the climate summit.
it is not an ecological whim to demand that the european union put the green deal on the agenda of international trade rules.
the european commission promised us that liberalizing energy would guarantee low prices, that the market would solve all our problems.
the traditional parties, both right and left, have accepted; our state-owned enterprises have been destroyed and our energy has been transferred to the hands of the big multinationals total, engie, electrabel, etc.
let us take the public control of energy prices and production.
with the ex ante mechanism proposed today, we want to make it easier for our smes to grow in the digital environment, generating jobs and wealth, and being globally competitive.
humanitarian emergencies are linked to migration, as the increased frequency and intensity of climate-related disasters fuels conflict and forces more and more people to leave their homes permanently.
the fact that the european union is affected by a pandemic and that we are in a crisis of access to energy must not result in the humanitarian field being neglected.
how will the council contribute to making the long-awaited progress on migration, women's rights, energy or our place in the world?
on 13 december, we launched the joint procurement for two more to be concluded early in 2022. if you allow, i will conclude with a couple of words on russia, ukraine, energy and the green deal because many honourable members referred to their concerns over the massive build—up of a military presence along the eastern ukrainian border.
on top of our close political cooperation, we have so far supported ukraine, as you know, with more than eur 40 billion since 2014. we are also working in other sectors, and i would say that we are collaborating very closely in all areas, from energy to critical raw materials.
if you allow me, i will close on the issue of energy and our green policies because this was very much present in the interventions by mr lamberts, mr eickhout, mr geier and ms spyraki.
i think that we demonstrated very clearly throughout this year, with our green deal package, with fit for 55, with our clear leadership in cop 26 in glasgow, but also in our package which we adopted just yesterday, that we are very clearly the global leader when it comes to tackling climate change.
once we come and present to you in greater detail the package of further measures which we adopted yesterday and which tackles the issues of the hydrogen industry, energy security, and the modernisation of our transport, getting ten—t infrastructure ready for smart mobility, that will be further testimony in that regard.
the issue of energy prices is, of course, very high on our agenda and we are working with our member states to make sure that they will deploy fully the toolbox which we offered to them to tackle energy poverty, help the most vulnerable and make sure that all these opportunities are used to the maximum.
i inform you that the council has been vigorously asking the commission to swiftly provide clarity on the pending taxonomy delegated act, in order to facilitate the planning of future energy investments.
the commission has announced that it will adopt a complementary climate delegated act before the end of this year, covering certain activities not yet covered in the first climate delegated act.
this complementary delegated act is expected to cover nuclear energy, subject to and consistent with the result of the specific review process in accordance with the eu taxonomy regulation, as well as natural gas and related technology as transitional activities.
among others, we therefore jointly agreed to end support for new natural gas and oil projects and to introduce mandatory sustainability criteria for all projects.