it's time to be united in the fight against digital crime and environmental crime in particular.
european transport infrastructure needs to be future-proofed to ensure the functioning of the eu internal market and the competitiveness of the eu and to support the transition towards smart, sustainable, efficient and safe mobility.
the commission has to prioritise the full deployment of alternative fuels in all kinds of transport, especially renewable fuels, while respecting technological neutrality.
if we want to ensure progress toward climate neutrality, any transport infrastructure projects financed by the eu must be deemed consistent with the 2030 and 2050 climate objectives.
the assessment of the effects of projects must consider greenhouse gas emissions during the whole life cycle, along with those occurring in the construction and operational phase and including indirect emissions as well.
we need a more sustainable approach and criteria that takes into consideration maintenance, rehabilitation and investment costs, initial investment costs.
so, we have to change our mentality for more sustainable tendering.
strengthened and effective multilateralism to deliver on our agenda: the protection of human rights, fair and inclusive globalisation, gender equality or the fight against climate change.
in today's world, our security environment is unfortunately unstable due to the large number of security problems, old and new.
these initiatives not only help to strengthen sustainable and effective defence cooperation and integration but also help to maximise the effectiveness of the european union's defence spending.
the fight against poverty and social exclusion is common and our aim is to ensure a rapid, sustainable recovery.
i am happy that the european skills programme is making the importance of lifelong learning and the upskilling and qualification of employees a reality, so that they can be well prepared for the competitive work environment.
they can fuel oligarchy and increase inequality, they can be used to breathe life into failing energy companies and so, instead of helping technological progress and reform, they can stop it.
mr. chairman, every year here we register another deterioration of the media environment.
it is not the responsibility of the state alone, because borders do not stop air pollution, and the price of inaction costs 400,000 human lives in europe every year.
chinese investment, as highlighted in the case of several heavy industry projects in smederevo, bor and kostolac, as well as the tyre plant in zrenjanin, lack transparency and sustainability, cause serious environmental damage, have negative impact on labour rights and have a corrosive effect on democratic governance.
we rely on research and innovation to become more resilient for future crises, and we rely on research and innovation to adapt to our globalised world, mitigating climate change.
the climate crisis will mean a change in our way of life, our economies.
but we will also need new technology and new innovation: green, carbon-free steel, sustainable batteries and renewable hydrogen.
the budget is over 900 billion, and one third of that is going to go to green innovation and green climate action.
in other words, we've green-fixed over 300 billion for the climate.
these are the innovations that will help us get all the way down to zero emissions.
it can enable doctors to better diagnose and develop new treatments, reduce energy consumption, and contribute to a cleaner environment.
the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment.
the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and on the environment protection of the union's forests.
such an environment presents many future risks.
these are important tools that we must use to restore the security environment in the black sea region.
the new regulations will certainly have a positive impact on improving rail passenger conditions and protecting the environment, thus contributing to the objectives and implementation of the green deal.
the regulation also promotes sustainable mobility by requiring that each convoy have at least four seats for the free transport of users' bicycles.
facts and market studies show that this is the 'best-ever' way to encourage the use of the most energy- and climate-efficient means of transport.
it is far too difficult to book long-distance travel across national borders by train in europe, despite the fact that demand for sustainable travel is growing rapidly.
sustainable travel in europe must be possible now.
rail is one of the most energy-efficient modes of transport and it makes sense for europe to promote it as part of a holistic means of making the transport sector more sustainable, but more than that, making europe more connected.
work should also be done to promote rail transport as a sustainable, innovative and green mode of transport that can guarantee essential services during anticipated crises.
all the energy and money we spend on this exercise should be used to build better, faster and more reliable rail links; the aim is to promote rail transport, not to make it more costly through bureaucratic red tape.
the ambition is to pursue digital policies that empower people and businesses to seize a human—centred, sustainable and more prosperous digital future.
here i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr flego, and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), as well as the shadow rapporteurs and all the associated committees.
the programme thus fully assumes the commitments to the ecological pact and to biodiversity and defines a case-by-case decision matrix for international cooperation in a logic of reciprocity and alignment of scientific and technological activities and an ethical approach.
we are talking about trans—european networks in real networks: on energy networks, on water, and even connecting our digital networks through gaia—x.
technological progress would definitely help us achieve our climate—neutral, green, fair and social goals.
it was important that the union's high climate ambitions were supported by sufficient instruments to effectively achieve the desired green transition.
the life programme remains a key, effective and efficient financial instrument supporting the union's objectives of being a leader in sustainable economic growth and employment.
this programme is particularly important for countries at the beginning of the green transition, such as bulgaria, because it provides them with the necessary opportunities for innovation in environmental protection, biodiversity and, now, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
madam president, i’m glad that both reports recognise the need to achieve highly energy-efficient, climate-neutral and renewable—based energy systems.
the transport sector can be a significant facilitator of renewable energy deployment if we provide the right policy, sustainable investment criteria and financial tools.
priority should be given to building a renewable hydrogen supply chain in europe and accelerating the decarbonisation of existing hydrogen production.
and last but not least, i also believe that the role of power-to-x solutions will allow us to use climate—friendly based materials in fuels for air transport, heavy goods transport and maritime sectors as underlined in this report.
this project, on which i had expressed my fears as early as february, is symptomatic of the country's double narrative, both in terms of international allegiance - it is part of the famous new silk road promoted by china - and in environmental matters, because of the probably irreversible damage affecting the tara river.
there are positive developments in the field of environmental protection.
europe is in a unique position to develop and use advanced digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence, big data and the internet of things, in an ambitious, innovative and sustainable way.
we want to pursue digital policies that empower people and businesses and lead to a sustainable and prosperous digital future.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
when we don't respect our ecosystems and when we don't take biodiversity seriously, it backfires on humanity.
it captures carbon dioxide, protects us from flooding and gives tourism a boost.
some experts believe that a preventive approach to biodiversity could have averted the pandemic.
a deterioration in one country should not necessarily affect biodiversity or the situation in other member states.
the biodiversity strategy is an important part of the green agenda.
for the sake of the animals, for the sake of the children and for our own sake, i therefore support the biodiversity strategy.
mr president, we know that biodiversity and nature are disappearing before our eyes.
today, with the vote on the european biodiversity strategy, we have the opportunity to show that we are finally taking this crisis seriously.
the belarusian dictator has been able to commit crimes for a long time because he has created a climate of fear in his country.
we need to use foresight and agree on long—term, sustainable, balanced and comprehensive solutions that will address all aspects of the migratory issue.
in this context, i call on the governments of the countries of the region to increase national investment in science and research on both the stocks and the state of the environment in the black sea.
ultimately, we want to ensure that this important infrastructure, which we will be investing in, will be a true driver of transformation aligned with the european union's key development and sustainability goals, helping us to combat climate change, to modernize our industries, our cities and our transportation, to study the origins and evolution and solutions to pandemics, and to develop new medicines, new vaccines that save lives.
in order to take full advantage of this investment, an ecosystem of excellence will have to be created and strengthened, accessible to all stakeholders and independent of the region of origin or its size.
the creation of the ecosystem around this supercomputer network will also involve encouraging scientific research and innovation activities, particularly in the area of hardware, with a focus on microprocessors.
as we know, supercomputers consume a lot of energy, so it is essential to adopt energy efficiency and clean energy strategies wherever possible.
the digital transformation of europe cannot be achieved without secure, performant and sustainable digital infrastructures.
i have to say, madam president, everything we needed to know to take action and avert climate catastrophe was already in the first report of the un climate panel in the summer of 1990. but over the past 30 years, we have shown time and time again that we cannot, will not, or dare do what is necessary to save our beautiful planet.
the climate law we are about to vote on has several of the improvements that we greens have fought hard for.
and the climate is not a negotiating partner.
the best thing that has happened in many years for the climate is still greta thunberg and her mobilization of so many, especially young people.
madam president, i think that the climate law is not an absolute indicator of the current state of the european union.
fellas, in your attempt to deal with these mythical climate changes, you've jumped from one extreme to another.
but remember, humans are part of the biodiversity.
the climate law as it stands is not just an ambitious package of conservation measures.
madam president, today is a great day for the eu, today is a great day for the world, as we are writing into law the goal for europe to be climate neutral by 2050. now climate change policies are ingrained in virtually every aspect of our work, be that legislation or funding.
a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 is a very ambitious target.
at one time, climate change may have seemed to us like a dubious prediction of an uncertain future.
europe has set itself a clear target of being climate neutral by 2050, but to achieve this goal, it must undergo a complete change in the economic model to which we are accustomed and make rational use of renewable energy sources.
this will not only allow us to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions, but it will also create new opportunities, including new jobs, because the traditional economic model based on exhaustible energy sources puts us in debt to future generations.
and if we continue to invest in fossil fuels, we may have more energy today, but our grandchildren will have less.
renewable energy is a constantly growing resource.
it is an opportunity for europe to really contribute to overcoming the climate and environmental crisis that we all feel very clearly every day.
but more importantly, climate law is an opportunity for europe to take its rightful place as the economic, industrial and energy leader of the 21st century.
european citizens, the people of europe, to be leaders in education, in technology, in the scientific breakthroughs that will make possible a successful market economy that preserves nature, preserves the living environment for the development and survival of our societies.
climate law should not be seen as a set of constraints and barriers to the economy.
such legislation would have a negative impact on citizens and businesses, and would set a bad example for those societies that follow europe in the fight against climate change.
on the contrary, climate law should be an example of a technological leadership effort and the imposition of a market-based economic model that improves people's lives and gives new opportunities to businesses.
you can vote until 7.45 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly uses of energy.
in the context of the ongoing digital transition, it is essential to ensure that new forms of work remain sustainable, transparent and fair, and that work through the platform is guided by union values and a human-centred approach.
mr president, with the ‘fit for 55’ package, we now stand over the largest single batch of legislation to tackle climate change proposed by any government anywhere.
after years of discussing climate change as a problem for the future, it has now slowly crept upon us with increases in devastating wildfires, floods and storms, as well as severe consequences to the natural world and the flora and fauna it houses.
i firmly believe that an orderly transition across the energy sector is pivotal for the cohesiveness of the eu, especially in the medium term.
this includes ensuring the security of fuel and electricity supplies, minimising stranded assets and making sure ambition is married with practicality and sustainable economic viability.
the creation of a more circular economy will reduce pressure on natural resources and would create sustainable growth and jobs.
as rapporteur for the implementation report on the energy performance of buildings directive, it has been made abundantly clear to me that reaching our climate targets without decarbonising our living and working spaces is frankly impossible.
buildings are responsible for 36% of greenhouse gas emissions and 40% of the energy consumption in the eu.
mr president, a new report by experts on climate change has been published this summer, and it contains a wealth of scientific evidence.
but i want to reiterate: we cannot allow the cost of this ecological transition to fall on the final consumer and on the poorest, the workers, because they are also paying a double bill - the bill of our political incapacity for not having acted earlier is also present in those electricity tariffs that are unacceptable to the most vulnerable - and they cannot afford the cost of a necessary ecological transition.
that is why social change for the climate is fundamental, commissioner.
climate change is a reality.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of europe are daily witnesses to global warming and increasingly aware of the urgency of action.
this legislative package has the merit of taking a holistic approach, from emissions to energy efficiency to renewables, and commits us to taking concrete decisions by turning the challenge of climate change into an opportunity.
we need to bet on clean energy, but we also need to have costs and mechanisms, such as adjusting the price of carbon at frontiers, to ensure the competitiveness of the industrial system.
mr president, mr president of the council, vice-president of the commission, colleagues, the climate is changing and we must change to mitigate the damage and ensure the survival of our own children.
economic, because the main culprit for the state of the climate is the market as we know it today, namely overproduction, overconsumption, oversupply, which has led to fatal consequences, and the proof of this is the failure of the current economic model, and unfortunately, the price of this failure is paid by the common man.
we need to support the commission in this room in its efforts to reduce emissions, but we also need to reach out to our own governments, especially those that have no desire or strategy to change, because otherwise -- and i'll finish -- inequality will crush us.
we want to build the first carbon—neutral economy in the world and to become leaders in new technology and green innovation.
we also need to adapt our labour market to the realities of the 21st century in order to become the innovation hub of the next decade, which, by the way, is the only way to fulfil our climate and social objectives.
it's not enough to simply increase productivity in a sustainable way, we also need to move to a circular economy, which requires a change in our norms and habits.
the union has already taken an important step in this direction towards sustainable development with the cap reform and the measures outlined in the green transition.
madam president, your efforts and desire to put the issues of waste of european funds and corruption in european countries at the forefront of the agenda are commendable.
facial recognition is of outstanding importance for law enforcement to identify perpetrators of victims of crime, not just in publicly-accessible spaces but also in the online environment.
i am thinking of climate neutrality by 2050, a key point on which to re-establish our transatlantic relationship.
well, we have a lot, a lot to do, and i hope that the european parliament and the american congress can work together to design a more sustainable and fairer future for our planet.
separately, health risks related to pollution, accidents and natural disasters also do not recognise national borders.
what's most surprising about this debate is the surprise that energy prices are rising rapidly.
it has long been clear that climate and energy policies will lead to higher prices.
the goal of this policy is to increase the price of energy from fossil fuels, so it's going up.
today the commission is asking us to close our coal plants, to do so in the midst of the price crisis in the energy market that is just beginning: a request that we cannot fulfil without condemning people to poverty and businesses to bankruptcy.
he's shutting down nuclear power as dangerous, he's crossed out coal as a polluter, he doesn't like gas because it makes us dependent, but he doesn't offer a sustainable alternative.
the chair, madam commissioner, colleagues, soaring energy prices have shocked businesses and made many families wonder if they'll be able to pay their bills this winter.
this is turning them into energy slaves, and the european union cannot guarantee its citizens one of the most basic and important public services at an affordable price.
and this is especially true in my country, bulgaria, where people have had serious difficulties paying their bills, and energy poverty is five times higher than the european average.
in the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy, such shocks will be more than expected.
the energy transition requires an institutional and common energy policy of the union to ensure a level playing field in the conclusion of contracts with third countries.
but above all, the european union needs to change its attitude towards nuclear energy and to see it as a green base power contributing to its energy independence.
at present, they produce almost 50% of bulgaria's energy.
isn't it strange that you talk about recovery, but at the same time insist on destroying our economy, raising people's bills and threatening our energy security?
but the recovery and resilience plan is not for governments, it's not for parliament, it's for citizens, it's for businesses, it's for those affected by the pandemic, it's for industries that need support in the process of upgrading to a green economy and green energy.
the epp remains committed to the creation of a sustainable, fair and harmonised asylum system for europe.
flight and migration will remain at the top of our agenda for the coming years, not in spite of corona and climate change, but primarily because of corona, because of climate change, because of increasing violence, because of increased conflict readiness on our planet.
this guidance and support are needed much more in a situation where political instability, economic hardship and climate change continue to trigger major displacements worldwide and migration towards europe.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the 'farm to fork' strategy is a very important tool that has the potential to completely transform the model of food production, processing, supply and consumption in europe, making it more sustainable.
i call for all measures and future initiatives related to this strategy to be based on a preliminary comprehensive impact assessment covering economic, social and environmental sustainability.
it's been almost six years since the world's nations made a landmark climate agreement.
we are also meeting our climate targets in the eu.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, cop26 is another milestone in the race against time to combat climate change.
several of the areas covered are of crucial importance for meeting the set targets: decarbonisation of industry, biodiversity and the circular economy, hydrogen, aviation and rail.
we need, for example, to make the full transition to clean and affordable energy, investing in new solutions and enhancing existing ones, in particular renewable energies.
mr president, i read somewhere that climate change is the biggest crisis multiplier: raising the thermometer arrow leads not only to more natural disasters, but also to more inequality, more emigration, political instability.
it is clear that the european union must set an example not only with its climate neutrality goals, but also with the social cost of achieving them.
but the real fight against climate can only come when global security issues are resolved.
because nobody thinks about climate and pollution when they're waging war or preparing for war.
or did you know that 10 to 15% of america's emissions during the cold war were due to the military?
so let's not be hypocrites in front of cop 26. the european union can help in the fight against climate change by actively participating in the de-escalation of tensions between the united states, russia and china.
a second s&d priority that we fought very hard for was to exclude the new forms of sustainable transportation solutions like e—bikes and scooters from the scope of the directive.
we believe that only by using such innovative solutions can we reduce the greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the carbon footprint.
this is why the european parliament calls for the strengthening of intellectual property rights in a way that contributes to the social and sustainable development of the eu.
the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the effectiveness of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the union's policy on the protection of the environment.
the structural modernisation of the cap successfully and in a balanced way combines economic, social and environmental ambitions and objectives.
mr president, commissioner, the glasgow climate pact is progress in achieving the union's objectives to combat climate change.
climate change and its negative consequences are not a european problem, but a global one.
moreover, i am concerned that the differences in climate ambition between countries inevitably have an impact on the conditions of competition and, consequently, on business and citizens.
it kept the paris climate agreement alive, and we now have a pathway to reducing climate impact and keeping global warming to less than 1.5 degrees; that is, to protect the lives and the livelihoods of those that are on the frontline of climate change.
otherwise, there will be difficult times ahead for us in implementing the challenges of reducing our climate impact on our economies and our lives and on our livelihoods.
and india, china and russia, the biggest polluters, have all pledged to go carbon neutral.
but the fight against climate change cannot be effective as long as we allow the richest to pollute the most and the poorest to pay the bill.
the problem of inequality can and should be addressed through environmental policies.
mr president, due to the efforts of the late president of poland, lech kaczyński, the principle of solidarity and energy security has been enshrined in the treaties, confirmed by the ruling of the european court of justice on the opal pipeline.
yet nord stream 2 violates all of those obligations, further emboldening russia to blackmail us with energy prices and to mount armaments on ukraine’s borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures provided by the commissioner are figures which, on the one hand, represent a major victory, namely the significant increase in electricity produced from renewable sources, by 38%, which for the first time produces a greater result than fossil fuels, at 37%.
but there is another fact which we must not forget, namely the fact of dependence on energy produced outside europe.
the highest figure in the last 30 years, 61% of energy used in europe but imported from outside.
this means that we cannot have the illusion that the increase in renewable energy production coincides with greater autonomy.
the figures show the exact opposite, and so we must always consider, in our energy mix, not only the energy produced locally, but also the energy we import from abroad.
that is why it is crucial that our energy strategy includes a strong storage strategy.
the first thing that storage means is to put an end to the religious war against gas, so that, in line with environmental objectives, a transition with pragmatic ambitions is possible.
pragmatic ambition does not mean reducing these ambitions, but it means shifting the focus of these ambitions from the commission's offices to the production sites of our enterprises, that is to say to those who use that energy.
energy policy is climate policy, and i am therefore very pleased that we are talking today about the energy union, which is often forgotten in climate policy.
but we need to do better in energy cooperation, internationally and in the energy industry, because here we are lagging behind: in 2019, 73 percent of europe's energy was still fossil and we see energy prices skyrocketing.
it is a serious situation, and the most remarkable thing about this report that we are discussing here today, about the state of the energy union, is that the eu is still subsidizing fossil fuels.
it's not a small amount of money that could go from fossil to renewable.
fossil fuel subsidies have no place in our energy system and that is why we must not forget the energy union.
we need to make the energy union sexy again.
last year, renewables became the single largest source of energy in europe.
it was historic, but we have to do so much more to reach our goal of zero emissions.
we are now entering the moment of truth for europe's climate transition, and our most important tool is the eu emissions trading system.
emissions trading in its current form has led to the closure of one coal-fired power plant after another.
but if we're going to get to 100 percent renewable, the price of carbon credits has to keep going up.
nine member states have already phased out coal, but we need to get to 27. then we have to tighten up the emissions trading a lot, sell hundreds of millions of allowances on a board and increase the pace of emissions reduction.
the only way to solve this is to change the climate.
mr president, energy union, in my view, is one of the most important and functional policies of the european union.
we are step by step introducing efficient rules for market functioning and reducing the threat linked to energy imports.
a better network for transition of electricity is important and necessary for better use of renewable sources of energy.
as we know, some renewable energy sources are the cheapest sources of electricity for the time being.
that is how the investment and energy union can contribute to more extensive use of these resources and, at the same time, decarbonisation and also lower prices for energy for households and firms within the eu.
i hope the energy union will deliver all these goals.
mr president, commissioner, the state of the energy union is clearer than ever today.
the need for more strategic autonomy, which can only be achieved through continued investment in renewable energy and storage technologies.
the need to make a strong commitment to distributed production and consumption models, with diversified clean sources and involving territories and communities in their sustainability.
finally, the need to combat energy poverty and promote a just transition, the dignity and quality of life of europeans.
i think this energy union progress report is very helpful and contains good news.
firstly, we have reduced our co2 emissions by 31% since 1990 and this has been achieved by a very efficient instrument, namely the trading of emission allowances.
secondly, the positive is that there is more renewable energy in the whole european energy mix than ever before - that's also good news.
our dependence on energy imports remains extremely high, at 60.6%, the highest level in over 30 years.
we need to increase renewable energy massively, of course, but i think it is just as important to rely on bridging technologies like gas as a transitional option.
mrs. simpson, i can't tell you enough about the need for an energy transition.
nuclear energy needs to be developed in the union in order to ensure low prices for end-users.
with that in mind, i would like to ask you what stage the evaluation of energy projects is at in the bulgarian recovery and resilience plan.
the other part of the heading, which is rural development programmes, market measures, fisheries, environment and climate policy, has been shown to have significantly more irregularities.
it's not sustainable.
it is important that the european council endorses the commission's proposals on 'joint purchasing, strategic energy storage and the promotion of renewable energies', but there is also an urgent need to adopt a reform of the wholesale electricity market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago i visited the border area between poland and belarus, an intolerable situation in a climate of terror for migrants and those who try to help them, and this is what i found.
mr president, vice-president sefcovic, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of high energy prices can only be tackled starting tomorrow by the european council, collectively, european and dynamically, and despite the fact that the energy mix is the responsibility of the member states.
it is also necessary for the european union to support the infrastructure that increases our strategic energy autonomy.
stability and energy security in south-east europe go hand in hand with green energy transmission and storage infrastructure for the future that is coming.
the high energy prices, ladies and gentlemen, inflation, the precision of goods, are hitting the weakest of the weak.
it is our responsibility to tackle energy poverty radically.
one of these issues is the continued high and volatile energy prices.
i still lack an initiative for a new climate and energy foreign policy.
it must also set the framework for building the infrastructure for renewable gases, such as hydrogen.
the security of supply, energy efficiency and social compatibility must be guaranteed.
if we prepare together the platform for responding to the next crises, if we empower the most vulnerable countries to also be able to respond to threats and at the same time develop their base of skills, knowledge and capacity to produce and distribute essential goods, if we change together the regulatory framework that allows speculation in energy prices, if we create more autonomy to defend ourselves with a stronger voice within nato, if we apply a humanistic and efficient framework in managing migration flows, then we can say: the change was structural.