this policy will create jobs, help protect the environment and enable millions of european citizens to have access to affordable housing.
we must ensure an accessible and friendly working environment, not as a favor, but as an obligation to implement the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
the projects will not conflict with the social and environmental objectives set by the eu.
total invest eu investment is expected to amount to eur 400 billion, allocated to sustainable investments and infrastructure (38%), research, innovation and digitalisation (25%), smes (26%) and social investments and skills (11%).
today, about 40% of european citizens still do not even have the basic digital skills, and this is no longer acceptable if we want to talk about a safe environment, whether for businesses or for investments.
as long as there are children who have no access to health care, as long as there are children who are abused, who have no access to a clean environment and face conditions of social exclusion, we have no right to rest easy.
we have to implement the 2030 agenda and implement the sustainable development goals.
we call for immediate and effective measures to provide incentives for sustainable growth, increased emergency aid from the european union, support from the member states - provided that quality jobs are maintained.
this allows for a particular focus on health, climate change and the integration of migrants and refugees.
european values and the rule of law are the basis for a europe of solidarity in the fields of health, the economy, energy, climate and cyberspace.
we can't afford to waste any more time.
the dangerous side effects of the climate crisis and austerity policies can no longer be ignored.
the commission must provide effective support to those affected and must also ensure that the conditions for the sustainability of the solidarity fund are adequate.
already 60% of the population suffers from energy poverty.
in my country, cyprus, energy poverty affects one in five of our fellow citizens.
energy market reform is needed to bring prices down drastically and permanently.
the european union must prohibit the interruption of energy supplies to consumers.
support low-income households and small businesses, financially support significant electricity interconnection projects and help states such as cyprus to achieve the european target of 15% electricity interconnection by 2030 and, finally, through state control and public investment, ensure the human right to energy with equal access to cheap energy as a public social good.
it contributes to the maintenance of democratic, sustainable and inclusive societies, and only such societies have a place in our european family.