our legislative proposal for the revised ten—t regulation is planned for the autumn, but is part of a larger package for sustainable and smart mobility.
let me reassure you that it is also my vision that transport nodes and urban nodes - so ports, airports, ferry terminals, passenger hubs - need to be given increased attention given their vital role as enablers for efficient and sustainable multimodal transport.
sustainable development requires the simultaneous development of road and rail links.
– i welcome the revision of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) regulation since it is an important opportunity to ensure necessary investments to roll out a smart, efficient, interoperable and sustainable multimodal transport infrastructure that will enhance not only the efficiency of the single european transport area but also bring a multitude of consequential benefits to the internal market.
czech authorities have made proposals which would maximise the reduction in emissions and significantly improve conditions for passenger and freight transport in the czech republic.
the ten-t revision will aid the implementation of a europe-wide network that will bring new opportunities for of all modes of transport, strengthening competitiveness and digitalisation, key components of smart and sustainable mobility.
we must remember that this is an environment where women thrive.
the labour market will be strongly affected by digitalisation and the transition to green energy.
hungary is a partner in europe finally setting out on a sustainable path in both environmental and economic terms, to appear on the digital stage as well.
this fund will be a success if we do not waste resources on expenditure which is still geared to the past, but we can really direct them towards the economy of the future.
we have an opportunity to turn this dramatic crisis into an opportunity to radically change the model of development and growth and to make it more person-centred, more equitable, more socially and environmentally sustainable.
with the new digital markets act, we need to enable an environment where people can not only scrutinise if they are being targeted by malicious actors via the platform, but also gain back effective control, where they have a choice to switch to an alternative, decentralised, open and privacy-friendly service.
if we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally, it is clear that we cannot do without a tool that will also get countries outside the eu to act.
however, we need to ensure that such a mechanism is genuinely compatible with wto rules and complements (not replaces) a functioning emissions trading system.
it has recently entered its fourth phase and continues to correctly count on the maintenance of free allowances for the most energy-intensive operations.
it must not harm european exporters in energy-intensive industries such as ceramics, porcelain and glass.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is continuing and we are still in the same framework of governance and sustainable economy.
first, the strategy emphasises that the job environment needs to be accessible.
the strategy aims at fostering access to quality and sustainable employment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
third, in addition to the ambitious climate targets, investeu will provide for a dedicated scheme to generate additional investment to benefit just transition territories and also this in complementarity with other funds i think is very important.
on the one hand, to get out of the current crisis, and on the other hand, to achieve our ambitious goals in the field of climate and environmental protection and digitisation.
the commission itself, in its communication on the sustainable europe investment plan, calculated that we have an investment gap in the european union of more than 260 billion euros and that was before the pandemic.
and just when it seemed that the european union economy had stabilized and we were starting to discuss what the priorities were going to be until 2030, what kind of investments were needed, how to achieve the sustainable development goals, how to meet the european social pillar or the paris agreements, the pandemic turned everything upside down.
it will operate on four axes of action: on sustainable infrastructure, on research, innovation and digitalisation, on smes and on social investment and capacity.
the objective of this programme is to mobilise around €370 billion, which, together with the recovery and resilience plan, will be the engine of the ecological, digital and social transition that the european union needs to achieve.
but, in addition, sectors that have been so badly affected during times of crisis and especially by covid-19, such as the cultural and audiovisual sector or the tourism sector, will also be supported through this programme, improving their competitiveness, ensuring the sustainability of the sector and strengthening its value chain.
we are now talking about the need for large investments that would, on the one hand, implement the eu's priorities, fill the gaps in the field of digitisation, climate change, research and innovation, and, on the other hand, revive our economy.
– recovering from negative effects of this terrible pandemics also about rethinking how we can do things better to become stronger creating greater prosperity for all and re-orientating europe towards a digital and sustainable future.
in addition, the new general export authorisations will allow our businesses to compete in a tough global environment.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on soil protection by pernille weiss, maria arena, martin hojsík, manuela ripa, alexandr vondra, idoia villanueva ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000024/2021 - b9-0011/21), and– the oral question to the commission on soil protection by pernille weiss, maria arena, martin hojsík, manuela ripa, alexandr vondra, idoia villanueva ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000023/2021 - b9-0010/21).
of course we should be very vigilant, particularly in relation to the irish question, but at the same time our companies will benefit from clear rules against any form of unfair competition and in support of the highest environmental and social standards.
businesses also need to be ready to adapt to changes in the environment and overcome them with financial assistance.
those working in the industry should adapt their offerings from package holidays to more sustainable tourism in the long term.
far too often, anti—terrorist legislation around the world is used against social protesters, minorities, environmental activists or refugees: a risk that has been pointed out to members of the european parliament by the un special rapporteur, ngos and journalists.
written statements (rule 171)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
they don't want new mines, smog, collapsing houses, but they don't want to choose between climate change and jobs.
it enables europe to move forwards with our ambitious goal of becoming the world’s first carbon-neutral continent, and your vote today enables us to reach this goal while leaving no region, no worker, behind.
because in europe, we do not compromise on our key goals – we will be carbon-neutral and we will leave no one behind.
it is important that eligible territories optimise the support of these various instruments to address all development needs and challenges stemming from the climate transition.
agriculture is at the forefront of sectors affected by climate change and is therefore a key stakeholder in a just and successful transition to climate neutrality by 2050. the urgency of the climate crisis requires truly ambitious global action, but one that will also have immediate impacts on the social fabric, a fact we cannot ignore.
the just transition fund will thus be a crucial instrument for the transition to climate neutrality to take place in a socially responsible way.
i am therefore very pleased to note that parliament has succeeded in strengthening the social dimension of this fund, ensuring that aspects such as job creation, social infrastructure and the fight against energy poverty are central to the action of this instrument.
one was that we had to turn our backs on everything we've done so far, and pursue goals just for the sake of the environment.
the other extreme view was that we shouldn't change anything, we shouldn't care what happens to the environment.
the most moderate view was to use the green deal and the just transition fund to keep people employed in the energy sector.
i support that, but i would like to take it a step further, to say let's use the just transition fund, raise the wages of the energy sector workers, the miners, the engineers, all the technicians there.
if one penny of that fund goes to environmental protection, three should go to the miners, the engineers and everyone else employed in the energy sector - in the mines and in the streams.
climate action is well needed but it represents a major challenge for many coal- and energy—intensive regions and this is also the reason why renew europe parliamentary group welcomes the existence of a just transition fund, a tool which will simply help the challenged regions to remain attractive and competitive.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of industrial accidents and industrial accidents is a very good one.
the next item is the debate on the report by christian doleschal, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on amending regulation (ec) no 1367/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 6 september 2006 on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to community institutions and bodies (com(2020)0642 – c9—0321/2020 – 2020/0289(cod)) (a9—0152/2021).
the key aspect of our support to smes is to ensure that in the union both access to finance and the fostering of a favourable small business environment are promoted.
the green deal leads to a reduction in agricultural production in the european union, and thus to an increase in imports from south america, where the expansion of production leads to the destruction of rainforests, and thus reduces biodiversity.
as a shadow rapporteur, i supported the biodiversity strategy from the outset.
we need to protect biodiversity, we need to stop the degradation of natural ecosystems.
by taking an active approach to sustainable landscape management, we can not only restore forests but also protect biodiversity.
despite all these reservations, i am glad that a biodiversity strategy has been created.
its implementation has the potential to bring tangible and positive results, unlike the hysterical fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
the vote will take place on thursday, 24 june 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on establishing the european high performance computing joint undertaking (com(2020)0569 – c9—0335/2020 – 2020/0260(nle)) (a9—0177/2021).
in today’s ever-changing security environment, the eu either needs to talk with a unified voice or to cross out the word ‘common’ from its foreign and security policy.
madam president, high energy costs are a risk to citizens and businesses and the key factor is the price of the allowances.
therefore, it is time to introduce a maximal predictable price and also to limit the trading with the allowances only to businesses among the emissions trading scheme (ets), with no more speculations and no more investment funds etc.
another factor in how to stabilise the cost of energy is also to respect technology neutrality.
it is not possible to reach the eu climate goals only through renewables.
other planet—friendly solutions, such as nuclear or low—carbon gases, simply must be put on an equal footing in a delegated framework of the sustainable finance or within the state aid rules.
failing to do so would not only further increase the cost of energy, but would also question the meaningfulness of the european climate measures.
there are certainly many reasons for the rise in energy prices, but many of them are due to the wrong decisions of this parliament.
we're talking about a bad emissions trading system that drives up the cost of electricity generation.
we're talking about climate law and a sudden move away from fossil fuels.
all these measures are making energy production more expensive and more limited, and we are now debating how to compensate citizens for this increase.
the challenge we face today is energy and fuel prices and, in concrete terms, the challenge of seeing that european citizens do not have to choose between medicine and heating their homes, or between feeding their families and cooling their homes.
and so we must concretely see that the european commission immediately comes up with proposals that leave a positive impact on the homes of all the citizens of the european union, and not that these benefits end up being taken away by those who, after all, are supplying and speculating on these energy prices.
the energy union cannot leave anyone out and we must see that every country, even those islands, those on the periphery of the european union, also have a leading role in this european energy union.
can we pay our energy bill for the winter?
and the high energy prices are putting a strain on business.
how are we going to ensure that energy does not become a luxury in the short term?
only by creating a genuine european energy union will we be able to find a lasting solution.
secondly, we must work towards a genuine european energy market.
it is still very difficult to get renewable energy from the north to the south.
finally, we must do everything possible - everything possible, ladies and gentlemen - to make europe the leader in renewable energy.
i ask you, commissioner, to come up with an ambitious plan to make europe a real energy union.
in my country, belgium, 20% of households are in energy poverty even before winter.
i am therefore waiting, madam commissioner, for a breakthrough communication on our energy policy.
if we do not get energy prices under control quickly, especially the socially weaker and older citizens will be pushed to the edge of their existence this winter.
but i condemn those who want to use this debate about high energy prices to question our climate goals.
among these climate populists is boris johnson, who is considering dropping climate targets to squeeze gas prices.
the prospects for the climate conference in glasgow are bleak.
the alarm bells we are sounding here today should be seen as a wake-up call - a wake-up call to use the eu's multi-billion-dollar programmes to launch a full-scale offensive on renewable energy and its storage, including hydrogen, even more quickly.
we must also make the state aid for environmental protection and energy more flexible for the industrial sector if we want them to be able to produce without coal and without gas.
madam president, madam commissioner, energy and electricity are basic and necessary goods; in fact, they are essential for the well-being of our citizens and for the competitiveness of our companies.
we need to reform the wholesale electricity market so that we can pass on to consumers prices for other energy sources, including renewables, which are already cheaper today.
it could also work with energy.
and we must introduce measures to prevent financial speculation in the emissions market.
citizens are not mere consumers of energy and public institutions should ensure that electricity companies do not treat us as such.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the situation on the energy market is very serious.
energy must be affordable and available.
colleagues, we are at the beginning of the debate on the revision of the climate and energy legislation.
the current situation clearly demonstrates the need to set energy policy in such a way as to be resilient to similar scenarios of possible future crises.
we must therefore exploit the potential of all energy sources, both traditional and renewable, strengthen european self-sufficiency and respond to the economic and social impacts of the green transition.
i can totally understand why my colleagues on the left are so alarmed by rising energy prices.
but you have to admit, this price-driven energy armageddon is on you.
your dream of a carbon-free future - regardless of humans - is getting out of hand.
where is your impact assessment on the integration of climate neutrality into the constitutional obligations of the member states?
written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the union in the european partnership on metrology jointly undertaken by several member states (com(2021)0089 – c9‑0083/2021 – 2021/0049(cod)) (a9—0242/2021).
this interinstitutional agreement will help to maintain a balance between the necessary economic development of agricultural sectors and rural areas, the essential income support for our farmers and the essential transition of european agriculture towards greater sustainability.
voting against it is a vote in favour of a project that could lead to the end of our food sovereignty, leaving the rest of the world to feed us without any significant environmental or climate gains.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after more than three years of negotiations, we are today presenting to the european citizens the reform of the cap, which will accompany our farmers until 2027. this is a reform which our group has criticised, expressing its opposition to the renationalisation of european intervention in the agricultural sector, but which we have continued to work on and improve, until we have reached the present balance between the three levels of economic, social and environmental sustainability.
we have also safeguarded the role of the regions, which will continue to play a leading role in the drafting of strategic plans, with the knowledge of the territorial dynamics needed to overcome the environmental and social challenges that lie ahead.
without parliament, the environmental ambition of a policy that will instead, from 2023, allocate a quarter of direct aid to ecosystems and at least 35% of rural development funds to measures of high environmental value would be mortified.
it has been many years of negotiations, but it has paid off, for a stronger, common, fairer and more sustainable agricultural policy.
it determines the character and nature of the landscape, guarantees the level of protection of the environment, soil, water, air, pollinators and the future of our ecosystems.
is that even sustainable?
or will energy poverty soon be accompanied by food poverty?
today's vote is about nothing less than giving farmers at least a minimum assumption of stability for the years ahead and the ability to decide on investments in modern technologies, in ecological production processes and in strengthening their role in the supply chain.
a vote against is not a vote for the environment, it is a vote for chaos, food poverty and the high price of quality food available only to a small handful of society.
but i think of those who are 55 and older and don't live in a rich country like the netherlands, but in a poorer one, and are about to face the biggest energy price hike in history and don't know how to deal with it.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the state of the energy union (2021/2976(rsp)).
we need to create a strong innovation ecosystem in the area of rare diseases and a new strategy for data sharing in the area of health.
other madam president, commissioner, in the introduction to the opinion i was rapporteur for in the itra committee, i wrote that a european approach to digital markets focused on better services for citizens and better conditions for business will create a more balanced and transparent global digital market, inspired by common european principles and values, thus enhancing the geopolitical relevance of the european union and contributing to a fairer and more sustainable globalisation.
i am grateful to the itra shadow rapporteurs who, with their enormous commitment and capacity for dialogue, helped to build and to adopt, with 73 votes in favour and only one abstention, a robust opinion that responded to the priorities we set, the transparent competitiveness of markets, the safeguarding of the role of small and medium-sized enterprises, the creation of a suitable regulatory environment for startups and professional users in the digital ecosystem.
with them, we must be able to make a difference in the fight for a more just, more inclusive and more sustainable world.
we need more innovation and competition here, even if we are now in the process of re-engineering many things in the interests of sustainability.
but our problem is that occasionally we are rather putting our heads right into putin’s throat, with our increasing dependence on russian gas, with our inability to support nuclear energy.
we clearly need to raise our ambitions within the rfg, we simply need plans that solve real people's problems and that allow us to make really sustainable investments.
we need better digitisation, better transparency and consistent budgetary control, because bad investments will deprive us of much-needed funding, but also, and most importantly, will distort market conditions and increase corruption and, in general, simply damage the legal environment in europe, and that's not what we want.