the billions of dollars are not being spent on biodiversity, climate change or animal welfare.
but for agriculture, the requirements of the european green deal mean that eu funds must be used more effectively to meet climate change objectives.
public transport, waste disposal and a functioning water supply are the basic building blocks of our society.
but, ladies and gentlemen, the european single market is a success story precisely because we have high standards for workers, for the environment and for consumers, because we have empowered local authorities to organise a real and strong social welfare system.
the same is true of the green deal, which is an exaggerated and economically destructive environmental idea that is being used to exploit the internal market.
we heard it today: the commission is also proposing to include climate change in the protection of cultural heritage.
i don't think beethoven or baudelaire or balzac ever thought about climate change.
the technical support instrument (tsi) generates knowledge for member states’ public administrations and it allows them to implement sustainable reforms and investments, drawing – with the help of the european commission – on the best and tailor-made expertise available.
first of all the european green deal, because knowledge about climate mainstreaming and climate tracking methodologies, for example, will help member states to make their economies and their societies future—proof.
it specifically addresses crucial challenges of our time – climate change and the european green deal – listing among the eligible actions, which are a sort of menu for the member states to pick and choose from, methodologies for climate tracking.
this is a crucial instrument, which we need in order to fulfil not only our climate goals, but also to raise awareness on local, regional and national levels to the many ways in which reducing co2 emissions can also improve the life of citizens.
for example by reducing air pollution in cities, which is something our citizens care about.
because when we speak about competitivity and growth, we often forget one of the key factors to achieve sustainable growth, competitivity and more social justice at the same time, and that is gender equality.
because the eu missed the outbreak of the crisis, this house would rather debate the third gender, human rights in borneo, climate change or interference with freedom of expression, than closing borders, competitiveness or selective protection for those most at risk of covid as an alternative to lockdowns and ordering too little vaccine from the leyens commission and, in the midst of the crisis, rather invent new african strategies and safe entry routes for more coronavirus-infected migrants.
i look forward to working to make sustainability chapters in our trade agreements effectively enforceable, or to the commission's proposals against wto-unlawful subsidies.
i have been campaigning in the negotiations for the commission to now also take into account and, if necessary, enforce compliance with agreements on working conditions and rights and, finally, protection of the climate and the environment.
stop cases of social and environmental dumping!
another lesson: at our best, we have enforceable instruments in trade agreements themselves, including in sustainability chapters.
without rules, europe is more vulnerable to dumping from the us, from china, and from other countries, and our companies face unfair competition from products that do not meet our social and environmental standards.
we know what needs to be done: the same human activities that are accelerating the climate crisis and species extinction - deforestation, ecosystem destruction, industrial agriculture - are also pandemic drivers.
we have here a report which covers a great deal - almost everything - all the means of transport, including the magnetic levitation train, which will not exist, all the objectives, including energy efficiency.
when it gets winter, there's very little to notice about global warming, despite all the predictions made by greta thunberg.
i also think that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the directive on the protection of the environment.
certainly the money is for the green deal and the eu migration pact, even though the eu only generates 9% of all co2 emissions and millions of migrants are destroying our welfare state without developing africa.
as greens/efa shadow of the fead proposal i’m therefore happy to see that this afternoon we will vote on a file that includes the need of a social sustainable and resilient recovery and stresses the feminisation of poverty.
many apartments are to be renovated for energy purposes.
but energy-efficient homes are not necessarily affordable.
green voters in particular who can afford this fancy environment.
we had gender and climate.
and yes, we need action in europe to make the economy resilient, competitive and sustainable.
against this background, we will continue to reiterate at every occasion that citizens’ opinions expressed peacefully are a critical part of prosperous societies and are essential for sustainable development.
let me take three themes from the report: firstly, low interest rates and inflation, secondly, bond-buying programmes and thirdly, the role of the european central bank in climate policy.
it is in this context that i consider your clarification, madam president, of the role of the european central bank in climate policy to be extremely important.
in your speech on 25 january you said, and i quote in the original language, in english: you spoke about climate change and central banking in frankfurt and said, i quote, "clearly, central banks are not the main actors when it comes to preventing global warming.
central banks are not responsible for climate policy and the most important tools that are needed lie outside of our [i.e.
but the fact that we are not in the driving seat does not mean that we can simply ignore climate change, or that we do not play a role in combating it.
recently, another item has been added to the wish list of the left: the ecb is being called upon to assume an active role in climate policy.
but you are absolutely right, madam president, when you say, and i quote again, "most measures to tackle climate change lie outside the remit of central banks, but of course will have important implications for central bank balance sheets and policy objectives".
impacts of climate change and policy transition have consequences for the primary objective of price stability.
nevertheless, the european central bank must not become an investment bank for climate protection.
this will be published today, and on this occasion i would like to thank the 4 000 europeans who responded to our consultation and shared their concerns about inflation developments, about the current economic crisis and about the impact of climate change, as those were the key topics that they commented on.
in this environment that i have just described, an accommodative monetary policy stance remains essential.
our pledge to preserve favourable financing conditions is crucial in the current environment, as it reduces uncertainty about the terms at which the economy can access external finance.
this would boost growth potential and contribute to reaching the eu’s objectives in the areas of climate change and digitalisation.
we also need ambitious eu policies to make sure that bond and equity markets complement bank lending and public resources in financing a sustainable recovery.
progress in the area of sustainable finance, for instance, is pivotal to accelerate the transition towards a low-carbon economy.
as i was quoted (and as i am happy to repeat), central banks are not responsible for climate policy, and the most important tools that are needed lie outside its mandate.
but the fact that we are not in the driving seat does not mean that we can simply ignore climate change.
climate change has macroeconomic and financial implications and consequences for our primary objective of price stability and other areas of competence.
we will contribute to fighting climate change in line with our mandate.
since the start of this 2021, bonds with coupon structures linked to certain sustainability performance targets have been eligible as collateral for eurosystem credit operations and for outright purchases for monetary policy purposes.
within the eurosystem, we have also agreed on common principles for sustainable and responsible investment that we will apply when managing our euro-denominated non-monetary policy portfolios.
we aim to start making annual climate-related disclosures for these types of portfolios within the next two years.
and in the context of our strategy review, we will discuss whether sustainability considerations could be reflected in our monetary policy operations.
if we want to pave the way for a sustainable recovery, we need to maintain and strengthen the common european approach that proved so effective last year.
we aim to avoid premature withdrawal of fiscal support and plan to strike the right balance between providing the necessary support to the economy and ensuring fiscal sustainability in the medium term.
in addition, the report makes significant points on climate change.
we welcome the ecb’s increasing focus on climate—related risks and the specific ways that have been identified to address them, including under its supervisory and monetary policy mandates.
the steps taken by the commission and the ecb against climate change can certainly reinforce each other.
i note too that the ecb referred to objectives set out in the eu taxonomy regulation, in its decision to accept sustainability—linked bonds as collateral and make them potentially eligible for asset purchases.
and on the other hand, something new: do we accept climate change, and does climate change eventually find its way into the ecb's mandate?
not in the real economy, private households or future industries, but in sterile assets for the super-rich and billionaire ventures, dream dances like the euro, climate rescue and immigration.
the european central bank must take climate risks and targets into account in its monetary policy decisions, precisely because price stability is its primary objective and climate change has a significant impact on it.
we know that climate change is affecting the real economy and increasingly the balance sheets of banks on the path to a sustainable economy.
and when the ecb, through its bond purchases, supports coal power plant operators, that is clearly against our paris climate goals.
– mr president, the battery on this phone is dying and although it is still working perfectly otherwise, i will have to buy a new one, with all the negative implications involved: more resources being mined, under often horrendous conditions, more co2 emissions and mountains of electronic waste piling up in the european union.
this linear economy needs to change urgently and it will change if we put in place sustainability requirements that make products circular by design.
we are making economic growth sustainable by increasingly decoupling it from primary resource use.
promoting sustainable and innovative business models that reduce our ecological footprint and create job opportunities.
this will strengthen fair competition and protect the climate and the environment together with our partners.
but for the ecological and economic foundations of tomorrow to be intact, we must act wisely today.
in a circular economy, we design products so that no waste or pollution is created in the first place.
to stay with the 500 million pieces of clothing, one sustainable collection a year doesn't save 11 months of fast fashion.
if you talk about circular economy, you have to talk about waste.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the disposal of waste.
unfortunately, in many eu member states, a high percentage of this waste is still simply dumped, i.e.
although there are already systems for separating, recycling and composting, and if recycling is not possible, waste can be recycled thermally, mechanically or biologically.
we should have put a clear and definite end to landfilling as the most environmentally damaging form of waste incineration.
i therefore urge you to keep your eyes and ears open and ask: when, mr mayor, when, madam mayor, will this landfill be closed to normal municipal waste and will it be replaced by a system of prevention and recycling?
we not only have the highest marginal wage costs and the highest energy prices, but we also have the largest low-wage sector in the european union.
it ensures that over the next six years, eur 250 billion need to be invested to fight climate change based on an improved investment tracking methodology, while not spending one cent on harmful activities when it comes to the environment.
so let's not waste opportunities, let's not talk about the green deal as if it's some sort of moral leap back to a community that has already taken up that challenge.
we use this as a tool to bring european excellence in the industrial field in the field of sustainability to the world.
that is why we allocated 20% for digital transformation and 37% for the environment, but the european parliament asked for more.
750 billion euros financed by joint bonds, 57 percent of the money in climate change and digitization.
this central pillar of eu prosperity and sustainability is being ignored overnight.
and through the rrf building and resilience facility, at least 37 percent of the money goes to climate change and at least 20 percent goes to digital transformation.
what is ecological is determined by taxonomy, and no investment project should compromise the eu's environmental objectives.
and yet, the rrf is a constructive response to the coronavirus crisis and to the climate crisis.
because we are accelerating the green transformation of our economy and industry to meet the paris climate goals.
and now the money is to be poured into sterile assets and trillion-dollar fantasies like the euro, climate action and immigration, which, with the eu's 9% contribution to global co2 emissions and a million births a week in africa, are more pointless than irrigating the sahara.
and may you succeed in securing a sustainable community for your families and your children in your country and hopefully in many member states.
the answer: this house votes for 750 billion in illegal eu debt and a climate change bailout and more migration -- about as much of a benefit to development as irrigating the sahara.
but we cannot agree with the refinement of mifid; we are still not convinced that this is necessary: firstly, as the commissioner has said, because, although the directive says that before we carry out a review we need an impact assessment, we do not have that impact assessment yet; and secondly also because, as regards the argument of liquidity in emerging energy markets, we have not been sufficiently explained why this is necessary; and, in any case, if it were, we could well wait for the overall revision of mifid that we have to do in a few months to be able to tackle this debate which is very delicate, because energy markets are extremely volatile and have effects not only on energy markets but also, depending on how prices develop, on other markets such as food.
it is also crucial for the long—term sustainability of our monetary union, and it is also very important for increasing efficient absorption of risks within the monetary union.
but we need to see that even though it is a strong stress for our companies, it is also a strong possibility for renewable technologies, future—proof environmental and digitalisation, and innovative companies.
we greens call for an intersectional and inclusive approach to the gender dimension, a stronger link between the fight against climate change and equality policies and the establishment of a strategy to combat the feminization of poverty.
violations of international conventions, reports of numerous deficiencies, unresolved safety problems, repeatedly postponed inspections, unfinished work for a nuclear waste repository.
the costly energy independence of nuclear power will severely limit the scope for future generations to switch to renewable sources in the interests of a sustainable energy foreign policy.
unfortunately, and this is obvious, there is no 100% safety in nuclear energy - there is none.
i would like to ask you to take a stand, to be reasonable, to say goodbye to nuclear energy and to do everything possible to prevent another nuclear power plant from going down.
this plant was built without the participation of citizens, without environmental organizations.
we are also calling on the international atomic energy agency to look very closely at this construction to avoid any danger to eu citizens.
and that also means that the economic agreements that currently exist must include enforceable provisions in the areas of human rights and sustainable development.
free and fair elections and freedom of expression and the press are a prerequisite for sustainable development.
first, the same and not always green climate apocalypticists distort the market with subsidies and bans so much that hundreds of thousands of workers have to worry about their jobs, that our companies are deprived of their competitiveness and competitiveness - even more so in their own market - and then these same politicians in turn present themselves as great saviors by practicing a protectionism that they have previously condemned in others.
every job in industry must become a climate job, so climate neutral.
while emissions in the energy sector are falling, there is no progress in industry.
and for that, the green passes for climate pollution must end.
the second would be a carbon price of over 150 euros by 2030, coupled with the co2 cap.
clean and climate-friendly business is rewarded.
this is the big step we need in climate policy now.
let's be honest: it's not about better cooperation, but about ever higher taxes and perfect citizen control to finance the euro, climate rescue and migration - not investments, but leftist statehood that devours hundreds of billions annually.
the european union, as you know, has an ambitious sustainability agenda.
and to make real progress in implementing our social, environmental and human rights commitments, it is essential to use all the policies at our disposal, from trade to development, but it is also essential to promote stronger corporate governance.
sustainable corporate governance is a major element, it is an opportunity for everyone, including the business world.
however, at present, the impact of companies on climate change is even greater and more serious than their economic impact.
it is therefore important to extend the duty of care to the direct and indirect impacts of companies on the environment, biodiversity and climate change, and to assess both their social responsibilities and their governance.
in the corporate world, the term esg (environmental, social, governance) is often used to describe sustainability and most companies are already using esg criteria to assess their activities.
it is therefore justified to extend the esg criteria to include the duty of care, as it is still relatively cost-effective for companies to anticipate and avoid the risks posed by their activities at this stage as climate change progresses.
the protection of human rights, the environment and good corporate governance are important eu priorities that must also be reflected in economic life.
in the current epidemic situation, it is irresponsible to burden european companies with new regulations and to expect them to check each other on human rights, environmental standards and good corporate governance.
we must stand up for europe's small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the key to sustainable and long-term economic growth in the union.
we therefore welcome the fact that the commission has already announced in various initiatives and action plans that it will make the building sector more sustainable overall.
the procurement, manufacture and use of construction products in buildings must undergo a sustainable transition overall.
the question i keep asking myself, ladies and gentlemen, is: are we really taking the opportunity in the european parliament to make changes here for the climate, for the environment, for the people of europe, and especially in times of the corona crisis?
and this huge amount of money is going to go into sustainable infrastructure, research, innovation and digitisation, but also into small and medium-sized enterprises and social investment.
the investment projects are checked to ensure that they do not cause significant damage to the environment in accordance with the taxonomy.
and it refers to the eu budget biodiversity target.
are we really taking the opportunity to implement the green deal, so that we can look back almost 30 years from now and say clearly: we have done everything we can to make a just change, to at least implement the paris climate goals?
at least 30% of investeu investments are now to be used to achieve eu climate goals.
and we greens, we voted for at least 40% - better 50% - because we greens think that more is possible and more is feasible in terms of climate action.
we know that only with ambitious climate targets can we achieve climate neutrality and the socio-ecological transformation of the economy by 2050 at the latest.
the taxonomy criteria are to be used for the climate tracking methodology.
so, ladies and gentlemen, let us seize the opportunity and act now for sustainable investment, for a good future for people and our planet.
and to cover up its own failure and vaccine scandal, the eu is now throwing money out the window for sterile assets and ideological projects like the euro, climate rescue and immigration, environmental and development policy geniuses with a 9% eu contribution to global co2 emissions and almost a million births in africa every week.
i am therefore pleased that this programme has as a clear objective investment in public health services, breaking, i hope, with the logic of liberalisation of these essential services that prevailed until now, and that it also focuses on prevention, on a comprehensive approach to health, including environmental threats.
to become sustainable, the program needs to make an impact and show that in the face of health challenges, we must and can work together.
fisheries data are valuable for the sustainable management of the activity, and i consider it essential to include the collection of data on the interactions of fishing vessels with sensitive species.
at the same time we have the highest tax burden, the highest tax burden and, on top of that, the highest energy prices in the world.
and we're not going to solve the problem by, as some of you have asked, now also loading this coordination with the idea of climate change or gender equality, but rather innovation and economic growth come from freedom and less government coordination.
the debate we are having here about the european semester is very closely linked to how we are going to rebuild europe after this pandemic and how we can make europe more sustainable, digital and social.
instead, they wanted -- i wrote this down -- high-quality jobs, resilient jobs, gender-equitable jobs, sustainable jobs, inclusive jobs, diverse jobs, digital jobs, non-discriminatory jobs, family-oriented jobs, and of course, climate-neutral jobs.
because you, the open-minded, tolerant, schickeria-political elite of brussels, determined to improve the world, you will not let anyone destroy your colorful, climate-neutral, gender-obsessed, multi-cultural world of tralala, promising world peace - not even a pluralistic and free press, will you?
but it is quite right that we should like to point out to colleagues that they should not waste their speaking time on fees at this point.
furthermore, i urge countries like germany and the netherlands to commit to additional investments and actual reforms, to not waste this chance, even though elections might be looming.
but now it is also a question of using the funds in a sustainable way.
the post-corona rebuilding must be climate-friendly, social and digital.
member states must put at least 37% into climate, at least 20% into digitalisation and not a penny into climate-damaging projects in their national plans.
the grand coalition in berlin wants to spend just 22% on climate investments.
mr scholz, mr altmaier: do not let the eu's billions sink into your federal budget, but work with environmental organisations, trade unions and local mayors to make sure that the corona programme becomes a package for the future.
in cambodia, we are now looking at intimidation of environmental activists and restrictions of internet access, governmental censorship, violence against peaceful demonstrators and so much more.
imagine: people who can be climate-neutral mobile and produce their own energy.
a common welfare economy, called here in the house 'sustainable economy of well-being', must become tangible and visible in the countryside, and this will inspire people.
because only when all national parliaments have approved the own resources decision can we respond to covid with investments together and boost our economy in a climate-friendly way - it's time!
what's right for covid must be right for the climate crisis or social divide in the future.
it's all about green, it's all about sustainability, it's all about inclusion, it's all about transition.
the eu's 2022 budget is an important tool for human health, climate, environment and ecosocial recovery of the economy in the context of the covid-19 pandemic.
our three green priorities are clear: climate, environment and research and development.
and it cannot be said often enough: eu money must not be put into climate and environmental projects that are harmful.
we have set ourselves an ambitious climate target in parliament.
that's why we need to decarbonize the economy by 2050 at the latest, to at least meet our paris climate goals.
the eu's 2022 budget is designed to make europe sustainable and fit for the future, and bavaria is saying: let's go!
the next item is the report (a9-0037/2021) by mr javi lópez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the air quality directives: directive 2004/107/ec and directive 2008/50/ec (2020/2091 (ini)).
nitrogen dioxide alone would have caused 54,000 premature deaths and ozone 19,400. i can reassure you , by the way .
the fdp will not support the campaign against the internal combustion engine under the guise of air pollution control.
the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 24 march 2021, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs chrysoula zacharopoulou, on behalf of the committee on development, on a new eu-africa strategy a partnership for sustainable and inclusive development (2020/2041 (ini)) (a9-0017/2021).
we want to prioritise, in agreement with our partners, the fight against poverty and corruption, human rights, the fight against social inequalities and the defence of democracy and the rule of law, but also access to basic needs, health, food security, education and environmental protection, as well as the eradication of forced child labour and youth unemployment and the empowerment of girls and women.
we have had notable successes in the fields of agriculture and trade to promote sustainable and inclusive development.
we must therefore continue to work towards an effective and fair partnership that will enable us to achieve sustainable and inclusive development.
madam president, commissioner, we on the european left consider that this report contains some positive recommendations, particularly in the areas of development, agriculture and the environment.
because we need a strategy that fine-tunes and updates europe's relations with africa, but these relations must be guided by a focus on rights and social and climate justice, as well as targeting the causes of poverty and inequality that african peoples suffer.
climate change can pose a major threat to africa's systemically important natural resources and biodiversity and, as a result, to the global climate.
second, to achieve climate goals and sustainable development, we now need to leverage new european-african partnerships, from energy generation to digitalisation, to our mutual benefit.
for example, geographical and mobility data: we can draw a lot of useful information here for environmental and climate protection.
madam president, during the first full term of the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this european parliament - which i have the honour of chairing - spent a great deal of time and energy exercising its role as legislator of fundamental rights in the field of data protection, adopting the general data protection regulation and the directive protecting the data of europeans in the event of criminal investigations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, every second our satellites, the devices that now govern our lives, are generating billions of data globally, data that has the enormous potential to increase the sustainability and efficiency of production systems, transport, energy networks, agriculture, health services - to name just a few - and, not least, to contribute to the achievement of the ambitious climate goals we have set ourselves.
of course, there are also risks associated with the misuse or fraudulent use of data which we should be able to prevent in order to create a climate of trust.
we need to make sure in our future steps in this legislation when it comes to the data governance act, when it comes to the data act, that we give power back to individuals, that we safeguard their rights, that we clarify the role of intermediaries and that we empower governments and businesses to share data in a trusted and safe environment.
secondly, we need to focus on innovation to minimise electricity consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and waste, because the data economy must mitigate and not precipitate the climate crisis.
compared to crisis response, our cooperation regarding the pre-accession funds might not seem that pressing, but in the pursuit of a more sustainable and healthier future for kosovo the fight against air pollution mainly caused by coal and outdated infrastructure must be tackled as well.
if we do not invest in the energy transition now, we are harming the health of millions of people, not to mention our climate commitments.
ipa funds aim at sustainable development.
we particularly expect the commission not to prioritise only state—sponsored infrastructure projects; smes, ngos, civil society are crucial for sustainable development in the region and they must have access to these funds too.
amongst them are topics such as climate change, education policy, gender-based violence, to name just a few.
this will create a healthy political environment for the necessary reforms and implementation of eu directives.
this includes embedding the fight against climate change and the sustainable development goals in the mission statement under the objective 'setting', both for the eit and its kics, as this implies a clear commitment to contribute to the implementation of the european green deal and to drive forward the paris agreement, the sustainability goals and the achievement of a climate-neutral economy by 2050, through concrete impulses.
the majority resolution welcomes these facts and hails the deal as an eu negotiating success, though it fails to mention that the tca prevents eu consumers from offsetting higher so-called sustainable prices with cheaper imports.
mr president, robert alan arthur said intercultural dialogue is the best guarantee for a peaceful, just and sustainable world.
for example, the word "gender" is now mentioned 76 times, the word "climate" 75 times; the word 'irregularities' appears only 24 times, the word 'sanctions' appears only twice and the term 'zero tolerance for fraud' appears exactly zero times.
gender mainstreaming, eu superstate, lgbt and climate change are now prominently featured in the report.
they are turning my report into a piece of paper that is aimed at homeowners and motorists, because by increasing 'climate-related spending' construction costs, heating costs and fuel prices will become even more expensive.
the court also delivered an unqualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all the agencies and an unqualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of the agencies except acer the european union agency for the regulation of energy regulators and the european asylum support office easo.
finally, as regards the f4t joint ventures, namely iter and the development of thermonuclear energy, i note that for the second year in a row the european union-co-financed thermonuclear energy project in france is threatened with further increases in costs and delays in implementation compared to the objectives currently adopted.
as set out in our strategy for the coming years, ensuring robust audit assurance in a challenging and changing environment remains a key priority for the court.
let's focus on the poorest countries and make sure they renew their health systems, rebuild their economies and align with the goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
– madam president, first of all i will talk for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) part.
i think the most important message that we have from the environment committee, which also includes public health, is that we see a huge expansion of tasks in these fields, both within the commission with the green deal priorities and for the agencies that are working on these issues.
the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in the budget for the 2019 financial year to finance the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2019 in the areas of transport, energy, transport and tourism.
not just us greens, but also the european chemicals agency (echa) and scientists repeatedly write that the agri—budget does not match the overall political goals such as climate protection, biodiversity or animal welfare.
last point: the biggest future risk of the financial sustainability to the eu budget is the growing backlog, which equals two—year eu expenditure.
it's about green change, and the fact is that the green deal and the european union's climate goals will destroy many millions of good-paying, value-preserving jobs in the next few years.
in germany alone, 410 000 jobs are at risk, and this is without any sense or reason and without any benefit to the climate.
germany is responsible for 2% of global co2 emissions, the eu for just under 10%.
we can expect innovations and technological breakthroughs that can tackle climate change, and predict environmental diseases.
climate change and the answer to climate change, especially coming from us with our climate plans, will make it more difficult.
they have also the energy weapon.
it’s very much present in the relationship between russia and europe, the energy question, and it plays an important role for their future because russia is, c’est l’économie de la rente, l’exploitation des ressources naturelles.
even if this leaning towards china will eventually make russia dependent on this big country, for them they need an alternative to look for outlets in terms of energy.
yes, there is a lot of infrastructure to be built in order to transport this energy, but this alliance with beijing is, among other things, a way of looking for someone else interested in burning gas and oil from russia.
this alliance with beijing will profoundly modify the international language on human rights and favour a division of international relations which would have considerable implications in particular for the management of the net and energy policy, world energy policy, the geopolitics of energy.
but this doesn’t prevent us from having to engage, which is the third pillar, because russia exists and there are files and ways, and we have an interest to work with it – on iran, and now on climate change.
and the european commission has already said that this infrastructure does not lead to diversify the energy sources of the european union, which is one of the objectives of our energy union.
but we can do, when nord stream starts operating, if it does, is to require that it will be working in a non-discriminatory and in a transparent way with an adequate degree of regulatory oversight in line with the key principles of international and european union energy law.
i want to remind you that the gas directive that entered into force a couple of years ago in may 2019 gives the union the competence to apply the european union energy law on interconnection from third countries.
the time has come for the european union to take decisive action to increase its capacity to prevent hybrid threats from russia in areas such as state terrorism, cyber-attacks, disinformation and energy security, and to take effective action to halt the nord stream 2 project.
first, india is one of our key partners in tackling climate change and biodiversity degradation.
as two major global greenhouse gas emitters, a joint commitment and shared plans for the full implementation of the paris agreement can make a great contribution towards a just and safe clean energy transition and reaching climate neutrality.
we do have issues with human rights here in europe, but we also have to encourage india to take further steps to ensure a safe environment for the work of independent journalists, human rights defenders and civil society.
families are suffering from high taxes, social security contributions, high rents and energy prices.
climate change, energy transition, taxation and the opening of borders have led to more and more families living in poverty.
we must take advantage of this, because in the end, we are also short of money for education, climate protection and infrastructure, and these are the investments that prevent war most effectively.
but apparently capitals decided to waste eur 8 billion from our eu budget for subsidies for the arms industry, and my colleagues from the ecr, epp and renew groups are apparently just too happy to support that.
good ideas need investment and a political and social climate that makes them want to go.
the eu's life programme has been running since 1992. it was originally intended to promote environmental projects, and that was a good thing, that was a great success.
but with the focus on climate now relatively one-sided, the life programme is being integrated into the green deal.
as a budgetary authority, i am in favour of an efficient use of funds, but against the increase in the life programme for so-called climate projects.
these climate projects will hamper our economy, further weaken the independence of our nation states, further tax our workers and cripple them financially.
i also question the hoped-for effects on the climate.
even a total and global implementation of this utopian green deal on climate projects will not change the earth's temperatures, or only slightly.
i am for biodiversity, for nature conservation, for respect for the environment and for the preservation of creation.
environmental protection yes!
the eu is a global player in the field of biodiversity.
bureaucratic and one-sided climate projects no!
it is good that 10% of the eu budget is dedicated to biodiversity objectives - a green success.
we have today received the landmark judgment of the german federal constitutional court, according to which insufficient climate protection is a serious interference with the freedom of future generations.
the european environment agency's report shows that the next decade will be crucial if we are to halt the extinction of species.
i therefore call on the commission and mr sinkevičius to put the fine words of the biodiversity strategy into practice and to present an ambitious plan for restoring nature.
hydrogen is an energy carrier and an energy vector.
as a result, the co2 emissions at this steel plant can be significantly reduced.
so we have great potential right now in industrial applications, and since the climate, as we all know, is under pressure, we should get hydrogen on the market quickly.
hydrogen is not a new discovery, but it's clear to most of us in the industry committee that we want to end up with hydrogen that comes from renewable energy.
that is why we need a dramatic increase in renewable energy.
if we are to consider renewable energy in the context of the recasting of the directive, i can imagine that we can have binding growth rates for all member states.
i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that if we limit hydrogen to energy produced from renewable sources and only from surpluses of this energy, we will postpone the use of hydrogen technology for many years and then fail to take advantage of the short-term savings potentials - for example in industry - that i have just mentioned.
so we are doing everything we can to support the production of hydrogen from renewable energy sources, but let's also start producing from low-carbon sources soon.
this is a significant opportunity, not only for climate protection, but also for value creation and jobs.
the classification should be done along the carbon footprint in order to generate demand for the most climate-friendly hydrogen.
if you want hydrogen from sustainable energy, you should be able to get it.
finally, i do not believe that the eu will ever become energy self-sufficient.
this can only be good for the expansion of renewable energy, the reduction of polluting emissions and the social, ecological and economic development of the eu's neighbours.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the eu's impetus and framework for decarbonising our industrial processes and energy systems is absolutely crucial.
of course, there are always pioneers among the member states, but we will only achieve the necessary quantitative effect for climate neutrality if we quickly say goodbye to new technologies from the fossil age throughout the eu.
i am therefore very pleased to have been able to convince the vast majority of my colleagues in the environment committee to support the european commission's ambitious approach to building a hydrogen economy.
first, certification of renewable and low-carbon hydrogen as soon as possible so that investment can be made.
and finally, to develop and embrace international partnerships to promote renewable energy and renewable hydrogen, because the goal of a stable, carbon-free energy supply is a global one, as is our claim to remain a technology leader.
i have to say, madam president, our common goal - or at least the goal of most of the european parliament - is a climate-neutral european union.
the basis for this is that we need to bring renewable energy to all areas: not only electricity, but also heat, transport and industry.
we must stop wasting energy, we must stop wasting waste heat, and efficiency must be our first priority.
and that is precisely why we can only use hydrogen in those sectors which cannot be electrified, where we have no choice but to resort to a chemical energy source which, of course, can only be produced at a loss of energy from renewable electricity.
in our energy system of the future, the pillars will be solar and wind, so fluctuating renewables.
we want to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050 at the latest.
that's why we need the just transition fund as a core element of the green deal to reduce our co2 emissions to zero with an ecological-social transformation of the economy.
with 17.5 billion euros - and yes, in the econ committee we have asked for much more, 40 billion euros, precisely because we can realistically expect - the fund is intended to support particularly those regions in transition which are currently dependent on carbon-intensive industries and fossil fuels.
we are helping europe's coal regions to move towards a new future by investing in start-ups, small and medium-sized enterprises, social projects and cultural institutions, sustainable jobs, retraining and training.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined.
change is possible, and the future of a climate-neutral europe starts now!
the jtf is an insurance to all people that the transformation towards a climate-friendly economy will not only be compatible for everyone, but actually be beneficial for everyone.
the jtf is the promise that no one will be left behind, and it’s the starting gun for the race towards climate justice.
the jtf is therefore the most important component of the green deal and the best tool for piercing the thick board that is climate action.
instead, with the green rewarding mechanism we included an incentive to turbo-charge on climate protection.
because despite the need for climate-friendly social policy, despite the effectiveness of this very regulation, and despite the explosive nature of climate protection policy, the council did not provide the jtf with the adequate resources to enable this tool’s piercing potential.
so we greens get the impression that the current eu climate policy is like drilling through the thickest board with the smallest drill.
they are getting poorer because we are going to save the climate in 100 years with government directive and a planned economic model.
and in paragraph 74, third indent, you call for full protection for climate refugees.
what, please, is a climate refugee?
of course, it's said that there will be 140 million climate refugees by 2050. even if it were, do you want to bring them into the eu?
mr president, the truth is that it is a real shame that we have had to hear the representative of the extreme right in this house talk about the climate emergency as a matter of bad weather; it is a shame, and you should give the same shame to all the members who are going to use their votes to try to empty this report with their amendments.
and i wanted to start just like that, because it's not only the persecuted who need shelter, but also the refugees, and today climate change is driving as many people out as wars, violence or hunger, but also environmental conflicts caused by an extractivist and resource-devouring economic and commercial system.
the ecocide impunity of european and other continents' multinational companies is incompatible with the european union's supposed climate commitments; green capitalism is not an option: only a radical change of the productive model of comprehensive energy transition in an ecosocialist key is possible.
that is why we need binding mechanisms of sanction against those who commit environmental crimes and effective mechanisms of protection for those who flee climate change.
climate refugees are today, even if they try to deny it, a sad reality that does not stop growing, usually because of our policies: the urgent thing is not to denounce the words of the extreme right or to say nice words in this house; the urgent thing is to convert and translate those words into rights, into rights for these climate refugees.
often, along with their ancestral environment, they lose their culture and identity.
we must ensure that 30% of the new global europe financial instrument is actually spent on climate action and that additional spending is made on biodiversity.
we must, together with the other industrialized countries, fulfil the international commitment to provide 100 billion dollars a year for climate action in our partner countries.
but what we do not need, mrs gonzález, is the excuse for existing conflicts over land on the basis of ethnicity, corruption or oppression, and climate change.
we cannot allow those who are actually responsible to blame the problems they have caused on climate change.
no plenary week without a reference to the imminent climate catastrophe, even after the coldest april in 30 or perhaps 60 years.
the subject of today's debate is the impact of climate change on vulnerable groups in the third world.
we read: the richest countries are the biggest emitters of carbon, 40% of the world's population has little access to drinking water, climate change affects women more than men, and women are more likely to work part-time than men.
but now the bad news: the eu must tighten its climate targets, create global justice, especially for women and migrants, and further facilitate migration to europe.
but climate does not discriminate, poverty does, gender does not, more than anything else, reduce life chances.
the eu is responsible for 6-9% of global co2 emissions.
that means that whatever we do has zero effect on the global climate.
the commission and parliament are calling for more and more migration to atone for climate sins - 70 million by 2035 alone, according to former migration commissioner avramopoulos.
here 's a much better recipe for you: remodel 11% of the earth's surface, as called for by the zurich university of technology to neutralize co2 emissions.
climate change is a key factor, because it often hits these people disproportionately hard.
sustainable food systems are therefore essential to mitigate the effects of climate change and conserve our limited resources.
with the food systems summit scheduled for september, the united nations is taking a critical step to promote such food systems and bring about sustainable change by 2030. the united nations has already marked may 22 as the international day for biological diversity.
the climate crisis is exactly that kind of crisis.
at the paris climate conference, only 20% of the negotiators were women.
clearly, without gender justice, there is no climate justice!
the climate crisis and its associated risks are not gender neutral.
this new approach under the leadership of unaids executive director winnie byanyima underlines the synergies and the links between hiv/aids and the 17 sustainable development goals.
to end aids by 2030 we need sustainable funding.
and this is the eu's chance to be at the forefront of climate action, to bet on a climate-neutral world market.
and that is exactly what we would have expected from the eu commission a clear stance on implementing the green deal as a job booster, as a stimulus package on the road to climate neutrality.
we must stop subsidizing fossil fuels, stop giving out free pollution rights and stop making state aid conditional on insufficient conditions.
we need investment in energy and resource efficiency, in the massive expansion of renewable energy and in the circular economy.
now is the opportunity in europe to invest in e-mobility, the expansion of wind and solar energy, battery technology and the zero-emission production of cement, steel and chemicals.
now is the chance to make the eu the market leader in industrial processes and advanced technologies , both energy-efficient and resource-efficient.
what we need now is a clear start to a climate-neutral, competitive, green industry with the courage to innovate, with far more clarity and determination than the commission has put forward in its industrial strategy.
thus our aim still needs to be working together closely with third countries, improving sustainable living conditions, preventing people from making these dangerous crossings, taking specific actions against smugglers and traffickers.
so let’s not waste any more of it, cautiously staring at each other, waiting for the other institution to move first.
– mr president, a safe and a healthy environment is a human right and companies or governments that knowingly undermine this for economic profit or for short—sighted political gain need to be held accountable.
and these are exactly the vicious circles that we need to break if we want to make climate protection and accountability a reality.
we also need to protect the right to a safe and healthy environment globally and we need to support all those who defend it.
let us create a smart, sustainable and technology-friendly framework for ai, based on ethical principles and core european values.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
this is a very important position that we have reflected in our report today, because we believe that these criteria are essential if we want to encourage consumer confidence, and they will in turn feed into an ecosystem that allows ai products and technologies to develop.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
but the first impression is misleading, because the resource and energy consumption of digital technology is enormous and growing rapidly.
and we see a contradiction with artificial intelligence in particular: it's going to be part of the solution to saving the climate with smart grid technology and resource-efficient manufacturing, but on the other hand, the energy consumption of machine learning is so high that we need to make clear decisions about what ai applications we want.
in order to make such informed decisions and make the green deal a success, we need a standard to measure the environmental impact of digital technologies.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
environmental crime pays off!
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very good one.
the problem: vague legal terms, different ways of dealing with penalties and inconsistent national implementation leave the eu with only a patchwork of regulations to effectively hold companies accountable for their environmental damage.
a reform of the eu environmental liability and environmental crime directives must provide clarity on this as soon as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is in this context that the commission is proposing to introduce a new system of penalties for environmental crimes.
i would like to thank the civil society organisations and the brave citizens who have helped to ensure that environmental crimes go unnoticed and, above all, unpunished.
those who pollute the environment must be held accountable.
this principle must be strengthened by reforming environmental liability and environmental crime rules, because this is also the cornerstone of a fair and sustainable economy, where entrepreneurship and responsibility go hand in hand, not only towards shareholder interests, but towards society and the environment.
we now continue our debate on the report by mr antonius manders, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the liability of undertakings for environmental damage (2020/2027 (ini)) (a9-0112/2021).
at the end of april, the federal constitutional court ruled that the german climate law was flawed and unconstitutional, because it violated the freedom rights of future generations, including unborn ones, and of numerous migrants who may never have heard of europe, but who will surely come if the federal government calls them.
the german constitution, the judges argued, establishes a general duty of the state to protect the climate and gives the federal government the task of implementing the paris climate targets not only for germany but also to save the world's climate, regardless of the climate policy of other states - all this without any basis in the wording and the previous interpretation of the constitution and without any reason at all.
it is in this spirit that this bill now calls for the recognition of ecocide as a new capital crime against our planet, the creation of green police brigades and the endowment of ngos with sovereign rights as public environmental advocates with immunity from prosecution.
germany generates less than two percent and the eu less than eight percent of global co2 emissions.
– madam president, honourable members, thank you again for putting the topic of the liability of companies for environmental damage on today’s agenda.
our citizens expect us to ensure accountability for their own protection and for the protection of the environment.
and thank you for recalling the various challenges involved in ensuring accountability for environmental damage.
the commission fully agrees that we need to consider the added value of new or revised legislation, and that’s why we have concluded that we should propose a revision of the environmental crime directive.
we don’t exclude a possible revision of the environmental liability directive either.
clearly, we need to be able to tackle the most serious environmental crimes.
the upcoming revision of the environmental crime directive may provide an opportunity to address, amongst other things, some of the concerns reflected in the various campaigns related to this issue.
in particular, it is important that the gravity of environmental infringements is reflected in the sanctions.
madam president, honourable members, accountability for environmental damage is extremely important, and i would like to thank you for your strong support in this regard.
the economic climate created by the current covid-19 crisis will inevitably put severe pressure on the civil justice system in both the short and medium term.
this in turn leads to significant losses for businesses, not only from an economic point of view, but also in terms of time, energy and resources that could otherwise be invested in new opportunities.
we want the european union to ensure adequate access to justice in environmental matters.
as you know, the århus regulation regulates the review of administrative acts of the union in environmental matters.
that is why we must not let bureaucracy stand in the way of projects which are often sustainable.
the best example is state aid: the compliance committee wants to make state aid decisions of a commission subject to challenge on the grounds of possible breaches of environmental law.
state aid is not the enemy of sound environmental policy.
it authorises subsidies for battery-electric and hybrid buses and for plants generating electricity from renewable energy sources.
it authorises subsidies for the construction of energy-efficient thermal power stations using municipal waste as fuel.
excessive bureaucratic checks and formalities can delay, if not prevent, sustainable projects.
the report states that only citizens of the union who are directly affected by an environmental administrative act can request its review.
such direct concern may be, for example, a particular impairment of health resulting from the breach of environmental law.
the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 20 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european cybersecurity industrial, technological and research competence centre and the network of national coordination centres (05628/2/2021 c9-0152/2021 2018/0328 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr rasmus andresen) (a9-0166/2021).
our public infrastructure is vulnerable, and the scale of attacks on our health and energy supplies knows no bounds.
the astronomical expenditure on migration and climate protection cannot be financed with a few tens of billions of euros a year.
third, the eu's insane immigration and climate policies will cost trillions over the next decades that our citizens could never afford.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, let's use the coronavirus and climate crisis as an opportunity...
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not let's use the coronavirus and climate crisis as an opportunity to make a difference.
smes are the backbone of the economy and smes need to be given the best possible support in europe to be resilient, competitive and sustainable.
the renewable energy directive can facilitate access to renewable energy for smes, stimulate demand in the internal market and create new local green jobs through investment.
in the field of energy efficiency, smes in the construction and energy renovation sectors are particularly affected and will experience a real boom.
we need green hubs as consulting services for transformation and implementation of sustainable business models.
and secondly, regulations that make the eu greener and more sustainable are not a burden, but a design tool, a positive incentive, innovation, planning certainty and a job engine for companies, and that is what the future is all about.
we are making the most of the coronavirus and climate crisis to empower smes and start-ups in europe.
but it is only with these smes, with their virtues and their willingness to work, that europe can emerge from the crisis stronger, more modern and more sustainable than before.
the second thing we criticise is the demand for alignment of eu competition policy with the paris climate goals.
the fact that we are now turning everything into a climate issue means that we must make further restrictions on our competition law and that the door to growth is wide open.
mr president, one of the main drivers of the alarming decline in biodiversity is without question the problem of deforestation and the decline of healthy forests, not only in tropical regions, but also in europe.
i’m not telling you any secrets when i say that our forests are the best allies we have to tackle both the biodiversity and the climate crisis.
if it’s not possible to reconcile the many demands on forests and wood products with a real sustainable way, close to nature, of managing our forests, the eu will literally be sawing off the branch we are sitting on.
clearcutting is proven to have a disastrous impact on biodiversity and on the carbon storage abilities of forests so we have to relearn to co—create with nature and not against nature, and we need appropriate legislation.
we need to make forests climate resilient, and agriculture needs to do its part.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97).
fisheries and agriculture, and in particular the livestock industry, are the main drivers of biodiversity loss.
a real revolution towards a sustainable food system is therefore urgently needed.
healthy food is plant-based, local, non-toxic and with respect for animals, nature and the environment.
that should be the aim of this biodiversity strategy and also of the farm to fork strategy.
we must also avoid that the energy transition, which is so necessary to stop the climate crisis, actually exacerbates the biodiversity crisis.
i would therefore like to focus on the multifunctionality of european forests in the biodiversity strategy.
management does not exclude the protection and promotion of biodiversity, quite the contrary.
with the biodiversity strategy we need to find a way in which nature and species conservation go hand in hand with land use, whether in forestry or agriculture for species conservation and food security in europe.
we need the biodiversity.
biodiversity is the web that holds us.
it is only through biodiversity that we will have the basic necessities of life - clean air, clean water, fertile soil.
and the moors are our allies in conservation, in climate change, and in climate adaptation.
i therefore ask you, dear virginijus, in your capacity as environment commissioner, to develop a comprehensive moor strategy to effectively protect and restore these important ecosystems.
i think that we also fall into the same category when we want to mix a market system, namely emissions trading - this new, expanded system - with a planned economic system, the co2 cap-off.
we therefore call on the european commission to make a statement on its proposal for a digital tax and a carbon levy in july.
if we get it right, it can be a blueprint for future european fiscal architecture, enabling a more resilient, sustainable and fair economy for all european citizens.
we therefore stress the fight against climate change and the recognition of the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental right.
this dated policy was born out of our conviction that the values-based and rules—based multilateralism is absolutely necessary if we want to effectively confront global challenges, as i said, let it be pandemics or climate change or terrorism.
we must be ambitious and broad in our partnership, including also countries that, despite our very differing views in important areas, we need to be on board to fight, for example, climate change and to bring peace and stability to certain regions.
again, the usual ngos, which then agree in content with those who here give the tone of gender politics over climate protection?
the new instrument, however, is the eu's final departure from a social, sustainable, democratic and peace-promoting development policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we welcome that this instrument includes a strong, legally binding official development assistance target of 93%, as well as very strong gender equality targets and significant climate and environmental protection targets.
it is designed to ensure a more social and climate-neutral europe.
because climate neutrality and social policy, they don't go together.
we have demonstrated this in the temporary committee of inquiry into bse (bovine spongiform encephalopathy), which we know as mad cow disease; in the committee of inquiry into allegations of infringement and mismanagement in the application of union law in relation to money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance, which we know as the panama papers; or in the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector.
the european council, like all the other european institutions, welcomes the agreement on the european climate law, which will cost ordinary citizens a lot in the form of co2 taxes on all the things of daily life.
in the midst of a pandemic situation, as the council states, in which political decisions have destroyed countless economic existences and travel for citizens has been or is virtually impossible, and the ink under the 'oh so fancy' climate law is not yet completely dry, the insane, politically-intentional traveling circus between brussels and strasbourg is being launched.
and that's what the social summit is about: to rebuild the trust of eu citizens, to give people the confidence that we can really tackle these transformations in terms of climate change and digitalisation together, leaving no one behind.
this will not succeed, in particular, because instead of promoting research and development of digitisation, the eu prefers to focus on ideologically motivated but completely irrelevant secondary battlegrounds such as gender equality, gender budgeting and carbon neutrality.
when we talk about building our resilience in building a more sustainable, but also a more digital economy, we need to take these facts into account and adopt measures and instruments that allow for the full participation of women and girls in all areas and therefore also in politics.
no, the main ideologues are really about building a beautiful new, colorful, carbon-neutral, gender-equitable tralala world, where people, as they are, are just a nuisance.
in an interview he said - and i quote: 'the erosion of democracy does not sound as dangerous as the threat of nuclear war or environmental disaster.
people with autism primarily have a perceptual disorder of their environment that makes it difficult for them to interpret other people's emotions.
and what's important is that you find really low-audience jobs for these people, who can then work in a low-audience environment.
the second point concerns a technical issue: if we look at the demographic evolution of the african continent over the next 20 or 30 years, we can see very clearly that redistribution cannot be a sustainable solution in the long term.
we see the economy, the social programmes and even climate protection as a means to do exactly that: to support and improve the life of europeans, of all europeans.
we made it possible to support climate neutrality and a sustainable economy.
we made it almost impossible to waste european money, either by destroying nature or by feeding into corruption.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, the uncompromising defence of individual rights, in particular the rights enshrined in the nairobi summit on combating maternal death, family planning, gender-based violence or harmful practices against women and girls, is a decisive step towards our being better able to meet the 2030 sustainable development goals in an increasingly complex world.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by jytte guteland on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the achievement of climate neutrality and amending regulation (eu) 2018/1999 (european climate law) (com ((2020) 0080) c9-0077/2020 2020/0036 ((cod)) (a9-0162/2020).
we all started here in 2019 when hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets and they asked us to take the climate emergency seriously.
they made the eu elections the first climate election, and they had a clear demand: listen to science and implement the paris agreement.
what we have on the table now with the climate law, science tells us that it will lead to a global temperature rise between 2° and 3°.
therefore, the german constitutional court tells us that it is our duty to limit global temperature rise to 1.5° because the climate crisis will infringe on our future human rights.
therefore, we greens will vote against this climate law because it fails to keep the promise of the paris agreement.
it pains me because we failed and it pains me because the next years are the most important ones to stop the climate crisis.
we will fight hard in europe to make your upcoming legislation, mr timmermans, fit for the 1.5° temperature goal, and we want to use emissions trading to phase out coal by the year 2030. and we need to finally cut co2 emissions from cars by phasing out the combustion engine by the same year.
we will fight to make all upcoming elections climate elections, so that the political roadblocks by the council cannot continue, and they will not be able to stop the climate ambitions of parliament any more.
we are ready because the people are ready – ready to save the climate and to create a better world for all.
i reject the climate bill as a cornerstone of the new political creed, which has long since moved away from the human being and his well-being as its central concern.
i therefore tabled an amendment rejecting the european climate law.
based on controversial principles such as the exclusively anthropogenic climate emergency and the scientifically unproven but political thesis of co2 as the sole driver of climate change, co2 reduction is being pursued with almost childish religious fervor using completely inadequate methods.
the law is destroying millions of jobs - over 400 000 in the automobile industry in germany alone - while the supposedly booming future of renewable energy is being squandered.
renewable energy sources, which contrary to the so-called world saving fairy tales will create many more problems.
this includes land use and environmental degradation both in the extraction of raw materials and in the disposal of many toxic and complex compounds.
we also risk losing a stable energy supply if, in the opinion of the co2 purists, we are to rely in future on volatile renewables as much as possible.
the result is therefore a further rise in energy prices and an unknown degree of energy poverty.
i therefore call on you to return to a policy which protects our economic prosperity and is also the basis for the environmental protection which is so important.
in november 2019, we declared a climate emergency.
shortly afterwards, a unanimous commitment to climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest failed in the council.
today, just a year and a half later, we're voting on the climate act.
yes, i would have liked to see every member state become climate neutral by 2050. we have had to make painful concessions on these important points.
but there are also important achievements: with the introduction of the eu's greenhouse gas budget and the new climate science advisory board, the 'listen to the science' motto is being embedded in climate policy.
this climate law is not perfect.
but we can use it to make hard-won, concrete progress on climate change in the institutions, because every tenth of a degree counts.
anyone who rejects this climate bill risks falling back on the old politics.
the climate bill was just the beginning.
with the 'fit for 55' package, we can bring the 'at least' to life by at least 55% by 2030 and even exceed the climate targets through concrete action.
last october i did not think i would be able to draw such a positive balance sheet on the outcome of the negotiations on the first european climate law as we can do today.
the european climate law is a great success.
i also support the creation of a climate change advisory council based on the environment agency, which commissioner mcguinness had already advocated in her role as rapporteur in the european parliament at the time.
i hear there are some colleagues in this house who want to vote against the climate bill.
everyone can do their part to protect the climate.
we have a lot of work to do to become climate neutral by 2050. so let us continue to act proactively together, on scientific grounds and technical feasibility, without populist gimmicks and exaggerations.
madam president, this parliament is today adopting the european climate law, the cornerstone of the european green deal, which will make our climate objectives binding: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050, thus safeguarding our international commitments under the paris agreement.
we are in a race against time to address the climate emergency, which will require systemic change and urgent and ambitious action.
it will begin a legislative task with more than fifty pieces of legislation that should transform trade, energy, construction or international trade.
we have shown over the last decade that it is possible to dissociate emissions growth from economic growth.
now we need to be able to accelerate this process of reducing emissions and take advantage of the post-pandemic economic recovery to introduce the green agenda.
we are certainly facing a decision of intergenerational justice today, but we have to be able to combine this green agenda with social justice, combating climate change and combating inequality, because that is the only way to make it successful and because they are the two biggest challenges facing humanity.
the climate change legislation we are voting on today will not be enough to fully address the climate crisis.
because it's important to remember, it's not the goal itself that's going to stop climate change.
that is why i expect us in politics to take our responsibility in the record-breaking climate package that we are going to negotiate this autumn and show the way so that a new increase in ambition is needed to reach the new targets.
it is not without a certain irony that we are discussing the european climate law today.
because yesterday the draft of the sixth report of the world climate council was released, and science warns that with continued climate change, the survival of humanity, the species homo sapiens, is seriously threatened.
but i will do everything to ensure that the laws that are coming will include effective measures that we still have to... (the president cut the speaker off)
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the n-va supports the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. that is an important security, even for investors.
but this climate policy must also dare to put prosperity and competitiveness at its centre.
we are committed to climate neutrality by 2050, because the impacts of climate change affect not only our lives, but also our food production and, therefore, our farmers.
yet, agriculture, our agriculture and forestry, is the most important key to powerful climate action.
the european climate law can be a great opportunity if our agriculture and forestry and their potential are recognized as part of the solution: climate-tolerant trees, carbon storage, humus building.
our aim must and can be to achieve energy self-sufficiency and carbon-neutral agriculture in europe well before 2050. as regards the qualitatively sustainable promotion of the biomass market whether liquid biomass from vegetable oil, gaseous biomass such as biogas or methane or solid biomass such as wood : the technologies are already available, mature, energy efficient and affordable.
and they're already the horse of all renewable energies.
so carbon neutrality requires practical innovation, openness to technology and offers rather than bans.
i am one of those who welcome the position we have now reached, namely that we must increase our co2 reduction targets by 55 per cent by 2030. because look at the baseline: we still can't get every single member state in the eu to commit to climate neutrality by 2050. and by 2050, many scientists think it's too late to meet the paris goals.
i want a europe that produces cutting-edge green technology and better exploits the opportunities of digitalisation, so that we can make rapid progress on climate protection, but also to keep future-proof jobs in europe.
and they're blindly ignoring the fact that the raw materials needed to make millions more electric cars, wind turbines, energy and data storage need to be mined somewhere.
instead of extending the proven effective tool of emissions trading to buildings, heat and transport so that we can make faster progress in reducing co2 in cities like berlin, they would rather sink billions in expropriation and nationalization.
the eu must become climate neutral!
that's what the climate bill you just passed says.
our climate goals are our "man on the moon" moments, as mrs von der leyen explained to us: the eu is becoming a model for the whole world.
the reality is quite different: eu climate policy is damaging the economy and is a massive competitive disadvantage for our companies.
the eu's intention to save the world with its climate policy is a direct attack on our prosperity.
climate change is the biggest challenge we humans have ever faced, and the european union wants to become the world's first climate-neutral continent.
and to do that, we need ambitious climate legislation, an ecosocial transformation of the economy, and an ambitious just transition that doesn't let people down.
the facility will support projects that do not generate sufficient revenues, especially in the regions most affected in the eu by the transition to the 2030 climate targets and the goal of a climate neutral economy by 2050 at the latest.
and priority will be given to public institutions and projects located in less developed regions that contribute to climate goals and have adopted decarbonisation plans.
the aim is to mobilise eur 25-30 billion of public investment for the regions concerned over the period 2021-2027. and this facility, like the just transition fund, will not support fossil fuel and nuclear energy projects.
the eu is promoting the climate change transformation of business, industry and transport through the facility, and will benefit from, for example, the expansion of district heating networks, environmentally friendly transport infrastructure, energy-efficient renovation, the transition to a circular economy; the programme also supports retraining, training, social infrastructure and social housing.
and in april 2021, we reached an agreement that spells out climate protection, fundamental rights protection and gender equality, including the "do no significant harm" principle, which means that projects cannot be harmful to the climate, the "polluter pays" principle and the paris agreement.
and we have also set strict criteria for the selection of financing partners other than the european investment bank, so that lending policy also meets environmental, social and transparency standards.
when eu funds are allocated in the context of the covid-19 crisis and the climate crisis, it should be clear in the 21st century that investments are being spent with the utmost care on gender equality, precisely to change unequal structures.
a climate-neutral europe with an ecological-social transformation of the economy is a very big task, in which the public sector lending facility is a very central, important building block of the green deal.
speaking of transition, today we are all countries in transition: transition to a climate—friendly and truly digital economy.
i appreciate very much that this parliament is so supportive of our climate action ambitions.
our climate bank roadmap sets out how we will support the european green deal with the most ambitious strategy on climate action of all multilateral development banks (mdbs), and of course fully in line with the eu taxonomy on sustainable finance, which i welcome very much because we need transparency, we need accountability and we need reporting obligations.
from 2025 onwards, 50% of our lending will be for climate action and environmental sustainability.
we need huge increases in investment in physical capital – new energy systems, new transport systems, our carbon sinks, our ecosystems – and, as i mentioned before, in people to develop skills and innovate.
we need eur 300 billion a year, just to modernise the energy sector!
let me say at the end a word about the link between innovation, climate and development.
we will never be able to solve our climate issues and reach the climate objectives of the united nations if we think that with 8% co2 emissions in europe reduced we can do it.
otherwise, the sustainable development goals of the united nations and the paris goals will be going up in smoke.
i need to stop here because i am so full of energy and ideas to refer to you, but i think i have the opportunity to come back and also to respond to individual questions.
first, climate change.
the commission fully supports the ambitious climate action strategy of the european investment bank, matching the ambitious commitments of the paris agreement.
more investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency will be essential to meet those commitments.
with the eib group’s climate bank roadmap, the eib became the first multilateral development bank to be aligned with the paris agreement and ready to adopt the eu taxonomy.
the eib’s leading role in climate financing can play an important role in a successful outcome of the upcoming cop 26 meetings.
as a follow-up, the commission has been working closely with the eib and other implementing partners on adapting their current compliance procedures to this new environment.
i think the european investment bank does a lot of things right, and the report acknowledges that: the work on the implementation of the juncker plan, the definition of the eib as a climate bank and, of course, the investment in all these last years to improve capacity, to increase domestic demand across the european union, and also in development work.
but if we want agriculture to contribute to the ecological transition, if we want young people to return to the countryside, if we want healthy and affordable food, then we also need more support from the bank for agricultural smes or young farmers to have access to finance and assistance, for example by extending the mandate of the advisory hub to include the field of agriculture and rural development.
our investment bank, the european investment bank, is acting against climate change, it has changed course noticeably.
we need to get out of non-renewable energy now.
and that is why it is wrong for the european commission to refer to gas, fossil gas, in its sustainable finance strategy which it will present tomorrow, commissioner.
we need 100% renewable.
we greens are arguing for an investment bank that is committed to 100% renewable energy.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, including the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, and will continue to support the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy.
address regional disparities, correct imbalances in eib investment activity and serve more ambitiously the climate targets we have set, without using the pandemic as a pretext for cuts.
second, we need to measure progress in a uniform way everywhere, so we know where we are in meeting our economic and climate goals.
please share your measurement methodology and sustainability indicator numbers with the national development and partner banks.
it is particularly important in economic times to promote the economy in a sustainable way and to support it accordingly.
they are the backbone of our economy, and without them we will not achieve the climate targets.
at the core of eu policy stands the green deal to decarbonise our economy and to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
when we greens look at the annual report of the eib we think that it doesn’t fit together that the eib claims to be a climate bank when half of its investments still go to heavy polluters.
but for a real ecological, social transition in europe, we need an eib that is more courageous than ever to support the right investments.
we have to fight against climate change by being ambitious.
because once the eu has worked its way through the ideologically motivated pseudo-problems and has built its colourful, gender-equitable, climate-neutral, multicultural world, then perhaps all children have already fallen victim to the human right to abortion.
and why grandma is an environmental cow, that's made clear in one verse: because our grandma buys cheap meat at the discounter.
so europe is investing money to make the ecological transformation of our economy a reality, to make cross-border transport competitive in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the eu's energy policy.
that's why you want to revise the convention and expand its asylum grounds to include climate and abortion rights.
the 8th environment action programme is the instrument we use to monitor the implementation of the green deal, and that's why it's so valuable, because it's not just the planetary boundaries that are in the text, it's not just the criteria for nature-based solutions that are included, it's not just the one health approach that is addressed, which is a holistic view of human, animal and environmental health.
the german federal environment agency has calculated the cost of damage years ago: every ton of co2 we emit today will cause damage of about 640 euros in the year 2100. and it is time that we finally express in dollars and cents the damage we are leaving to our children and grandchildren.
at first glance, it seems to be about climate targets, species conservation, air pollution.
our economies are closely linked to climate change, species extinction and pollution.
it lays important foundations, but we need the new environment action programme to keep the eu on track beyond this legislature with social, environmental objectives and mechanisms for review and follow-up.
it was therefore important to sharpen the commission's proposal precisely here: we must not put renewable growth, but human welfare, health and the protection of our natural resources at the centre of our policy.
the 2030 environment action programme is an important pillar in our fight against climate change and for greater sustainability.
and in this crucial decade, the environment action programme must not be primarily a monitoring programme.
courage to create sustainable content instead of headlines.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the designation of marine protected areas in antarctica and the conservation of biodiversity in the southern ocean (2021/2757 ((rsp)).
so you have bangladesh at the heart of this social and environmental devastation.
rana plaza has shown the world the underbelly of what is called fast fashion which, in disregard of social and environmental rights, has built a form of modern slavery.
of course, we need laws that make it possible to guarantee a value chain that respects social and environmental rights at the level of the european union.
as i stated in my opening remarks, bangladesh is expected to graduate from the least developed country status in 2026. the authorities of bangladesh have already communicated their interest in accessing the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), our flagship arrangement for middle—income countries, in order to maintain duty free access to our market for their exports, especially in the textiles ready-made garment sector.
however, and moreover, the upcoming mandatory sustainable corporate governance initiative, a legislative initiative in the commission work programme for this year, will address the issue of labour rights in supply chains.
our engagement with bangladesh on sustainable development goes, however, even further.
the capacity of stakeholders in our industrial ecosystem to quickly start and scale-up production was seriously constrained, and this is why the commission is particularly vigilant and active to ensure a good functioning of the single market.
we will also submit a proposal this year to review the rules on waste shipments.
we will further explore international partnerships and cooperation to address strategic dependencies and diversify supply with sustainable and responsible sourcing from third countries, enabling undistorted trade and investment.
the investeu programme can also support investment in raw materials, including through its sustainable infrastructure policy window.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the corona crisis has not displaced the climate crisis, and a climate-neutral europe by 2050 at the latest and the green deal in focus is now at the heart of our european policy.
the first thing we need, of course, is a resource-efficient and low-carbon construction, especially in public spaces, infrastructure and roads.
in addition, construction and demolition waste represents the largest waste stream in the eu, with around one third of all waste, and we know that building materials are ideal for recycling as valuable raw material deposits with great untapped potential for a circular economy.
the recycling rate of construction and demolition waste varies across the eu.
because we need conservation and efficiency, recycling and circular economy, sustainable, diversified supply chains and innovation for zero-emission building materials.
we need to engage with saudi arabia, be it to improve security in the middle east or to fight the climate crisis.
airlines are dumping prices in an attempt to outdo each other at the expense of workers and the climate.
the aviation industry will also have to change massively because of the climate crisis.
it is shameful that lufthansa boss spohr flatly rejects necessary climate measures and at the same time expects the state to rescue lufthansa in every crisis.
we have to put the money into that, because we have -- this is nothing new -- this climate crisis that we have to deal with.
at least the climate will thank us.
in germany, airlines are subject to a triple taxation of air traffic, ets and corsia, while airlines from turkey, the gulf states and asia can operate under completely different environmental and social statutes.
energy poverty, as you call it, will be the rule, not the exception.
less than two years ago, we all joined together in this room to declare a climate emergency.
the fact that the climate emergency is a reality has been shown this summer.
the report of the world climate council has shown the dramatic situation we are in.
but i ask you: how is it that you propose that by 2030, only 40 percent of energy is renewable?
the latest report from the world climate council has shown that the proposals are not enough to deliver on the promise of the paris agreement - the promise that our children can enjoy the same freedom as we do.
the climate performance of moors, forests and meadows is not a panacea.
the forestry and land use sector must not become a kind of egg-laying, egg-swallowing cow to make up for missed greenhouse gas reductions in other sectors.
i want to particularly thank those who have said they want to engage with the commission and the council to swiftly start negotiating on the fit for 55 package, to find common solutions on the basis of a legal obligation to reach a reduction of at least 55% of emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. i also want to raise a more profound issue today.
if you look at the challenges humanity faces: the covid crisis, which is not over yet by a long stretch; the climate crisis; the risk of ecocide, which is real; and we’re in the middle of an industrial revolution and quickly shifting geopolitical relations.
and the migration crisis we’ve seen so far will be child’s play if you compare it to the migration flows that will result from the climate crisis getting completely out of hand.
do those of you who criticise the fit for 55, who criticise climate policy, do they really look at that aspect of non-action?
if we can manifestly show that the sacrifice leads to results and that the burden is shared in an equitable and solidarity-based way, that is going to be the big challenge because, and let me end on that, the final trap, the most immediate trap, and i heard it here today, we need to avoid at all costs, is that we oppose social equity and solidarity to tackling the climate crisis, that we pretend as though tackling the climate crisis would lead to social inequality, whereas it is evident on the basis of science that not tackling the climate crisis will lead to the most horrible social inequality, because rich people can always find a way out and a place to live.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
in the context of the implementation of the green deal, the commission presented on 14 july 2021 the package objective 55, with thirteen legislative measures whose main objective is to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the programme aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 compared with 1990 levels, with the review of the eu's climate and energy framework that it proposes.
some of the legislative proposals presented are based on the adaptation and restructuring of existing tools such as the eu emissions trading system (ets), the revision of legislation on the sharing of effort, renewable energy or energy efficiency.
climate objectives and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are undeniably a priority.
however, i insist that the transition to a sustainable economy must always be made without undermining the competitiveness of businesses in our single market.
the adoption of the eu climate regulation in july marked the end of symbolic debates and the opportunity for responsible action in the fight against climate change.
the latter has become particularly urgent as in recent months, in addition to the coronavirus pandemic, european citizens have faced devastating weather anomalies and record energy prices.
the climate targets are noble, but it is unacceptable for brussels to make people pay for the green transition.
the proposed increase in the share of renewable energy will lead to a jump in the price of heating, district heating and transport fuels.
the costs of increasing the level of mandatory annual energy savings may also be borne by consumers in the future.
this is dangerous the people of europe deserve better climate and energy policies.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
i support the package fit for 55 it is necessary to formulate even more ambitious climate targets for 2030 on the way to eu climate neutrality.
i therefore welcome the commitment to reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030. in my view, the emphasis of the measures announced must clearly be on market economy measures, because only with incentives rather than bans will we achieve the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. everyone can contribute to climate protection, but not every detail can be dictated by the european union.
because if countries like italy allocate only 2 billion for hydrogeological disruption, against a need of 26 billion, it means that more pressure must be exerted on governments to use funds effectively in combating climate change.
yes, the eu solidarity fund needs to be reinforced, a climate adaptation fund is needed.
in germany too, savings were made in flood control, climate control and disaster prevention.
the commissioner is quite right, therefore, that we must do better on three levels at the same time: more emergency aid, more prevention, more climate protection.
this must be the principle from now on, because no one can doubt that climate change has also reached europe in the face of the devastating natural disasters of this summer.
this is climate change!
and that is why it is so urgent that we put disaster prevention and adaptation to climate change at the top of the agenda, also in the eu budget.
and we need to prioritize ecological aspects: more space for rivers, less sealed or compacted soils due to intensive agriculture, sponge cities with water reservoirs and green spaces.
and above all, we must do one thing: finally take climate action forward.
the question is no longer whether we can afford climate protection.
the real question is who is to bear the immense human and financial costs of a lack of climate protection?
extreme weather is unfortunately as old as humanity, and even the 2012 ipcc special report has to state that in terms of flooding, it's not anthropogenic climate change that's the problem.
that you're using the dead, the flood victims, the people who lost everything, for your climate propaganda is pathetic.
with this new normal, it's becoming increasingly painfully clear that the climate crisis is not an abstract idea.
working to achieve the paris agreement on climate change is not just about drastically reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
it also means organising climate adaptation measures to protect all people from the consequences of the crisis.
we must not waste any more time, we must not rest on our laurels - there is far too much to do.
with the current plans of the states to protect the climate, we are heading for well over 3°c.
this means that we need not only to accelerate climate action, but we also need to take action to adapt to climate change.
and to those of you who are calling for moderation on climate change, physics is not negotiation, it's hard science.
the demands that would be made were clear from the articles: the entire eu budget would be blown up again because of climate change.
first, many of the damage that has been done is not just the result of anonymous climate change, but the very concrete personal ignorance of individual decision-makers.
but this does not mean that we should question 20 years of western mission, in which we have tried to build a more democratic environment and to fight terrorism.
perhaps part of the eu's climate policy is to politically trigger new ice ages.
climate change is our single greatest security threat.
it is in russia's own interest not to fall behind in climate change.
the eu therefore needs to step up its efforts, together with the us, in the run-up to cop 26 to promote dialogue and cooperation with russia in order to jointly tackle global climate change.
the eu's relations with russia must be climate-safe.
at the same time, the eu must also broaden and develop its support for democracy, human rights, gender equality, the environment and climate.
it is important for us greens that the funds are not simply paid out as a water jug, but that they go to climate-friendly and socially sustainable projects.
we are discussing the state of the union today, and frankly, i am concerned about the state of our union in the climate arena.
the fact that cities in greece are burning and have to be evacuated, or that people in germany have to flee from the floodwaters, shows that we are already in the midst of the climate crisis.
madam president, you promised the citizens that europe would become climate-neutral as soon as possible, and you yourself compared this to the human task of landing on the moon.
leading climate scientists warn that we're breaking the 1.5 degree mark even faster than we thought.
climate change, you can't put that off, because that robs future generations of their freedom.
climate action also requires us to take global responsibility.
and now it is about rethinking this very single market and making it a climate-friendly one, with a rapid move away from coal and gas and towards a genuine circular economy.
we must finally build our supply chains free of climate destruction and human rights violations.
we have a tax equity problem and a tax waste problem and therefore far too high taxes.
hundreds of billions of tax dollars are wasted on world-saving projects such as unskilled mass immigration through the labour market directly into the social network and a climate policy that must fail because the eu's contribution to global co2 emissions of less than 8% is meaningless.
second, ngos remain tax-exempt and exempt from money laundering regulation, despite moneyval, the european court of auditors and the financial action task force all warning that multi-billion dollar pro-migration and climate-saving ngos, trusts and foundations also acted as vehicles for money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion.
we must also investigate what is happening in the immediate environment of a member of the european parliament in relation to russian agents.
this should be guided by the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, yet i cannot help but stress that in 2021 we still have a long way to go to meet our targets.
allow me to focus on sustainable development goal number two: ending hunger.
the shift to sustainable food systems needs to be global.
this is the year of the climate cop26, the biodiversity cop15 and the high—level dialogue on energy.
agriculture ministers of the eu and the african union met in june to discuss partnerships for sustainable agriculture and food systems, and we are working with our partners on sustainable land management.
the upcoming un food systems summit is a unique opportunity to make global food systems more resilient, equitable, efficient and sustainable.
for example, in research partnerships for sustainable food systems.
current agro-industrial food systems are failing to feed the world's population in a sustainable and healthy way.
in the new report on the state of food security and nutrition in the world by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, it is clear that we are not moving in the right direction, for any of the nutrition indicators, to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals.
we need to be sure that at the nutrition for growth summit in december 2021 in japan, the european union will promote a profound transformation of our food systems to make them resilient, sustainable and equitable.
we are destroying rainforests, depriving indigenous people of their livelihoods, and warming the global climate every day.
first, it must commit companies to respecting the environment and human rights through a clear and binding supply chain law.
secondly, it must set minimum environmental and social standards for imports in trade agreements.
and it’s in this environment that the us sanctions came, and to quote a bulgarian politician, it dropped a political bomb.
i will be discussing the eu green deal, and how we can work together to stop the climate crisis.
and as much as such an engagement and cooperation on the side of climate is necessary, we cannot and should never remain silent on the human rights issues.
the fact that this camp is located in an already disadvantaged area, affected by climate change, food insecurity and lack of access to basic services, water and health services makes the situation even more dire, especially for the refugee population.
the house also welcomes the extension of eu asylum law to include climate migrants and pregnant women who have been denied an abortion in africa.
through the eu vaccine strategy, and thanks to our collaboration with you and key stakeholders, we are providing our citizens with a sustainable solution to covid—19.
the next item is the report by michèle rivasi, on behalf of the committee on development, on the role of development policy in the response to biodiversity loss in developing countries, in the context of the achievement of the 2030 agenda (2020/2274(ini)) (a9-0258/2021).
this is very important, because this report gives guidance on how to increase biodiversity in developing countries.
there was a report at the environment, public health and food safety committee level, which aims to assess consistency with the 2030 agenda.
these peoples still represent about 5% of the world's population, but manage at least 25% of the earth's land surface, where almost 80% of biodiversity is concentrated.
these peoples therefore have a special relationship with their environment.
there is one area to be careful about, and this is in the report, namely the so-called nature-based solutions; we have done the carbon market, we should not also do the biodiversity market, because problems may arise with the so-called compensations: we see many oil companies, such as shell or total, which can continue to pollute, provided they compensate for their co2 pollution.
by taking land in the global south and planting crops, they can then say they have a carbon neutral balance.
so it is a real risk: the destruction of our environment should not be compensated for at the expense of indigenous peoples and local communities.
we need to reverse biodiversity loss and we need to promote sustainable livelihoods in our partner countries, yes, but also in europe.
biodiversity is crucial to safeguard global food security and food systems.
this is why the president of the commission, as part of the implementation of the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy for 2030, committed on 15 september to increase support to eu partner countries.
i am pleased to confirm that we will double our external funding for biodiversity.
we will double our external funding for biodiversity.
the eu will tackle the climate and biodiversity crisis.
ahead of the upcoming climate and biodiversity conferences, we will continue working with partners.
the world needs to adopt an ambitious global biodiversity framework.
through our desira initiative, we are working to mobilise research in eu partner countries, identifying and employing sustainable practices based on agri- ecology and climate-smart agriculture.
in line with the just transition proposed by the green deal and as part of our human rights-based approach to development, we also ensure that eu action on biodiversity promotes gender equality and recognises and applies human rights.
as an example, nature africa supports biodiversity conservation while ensuring human rights.
it fosters job creation, improved security and sustainable livelihoods.
biodiversity is an indispensable foundation for human life and sustainable climate protection worldwide.
biodiversity directly regulates oxygen production, climate and soil formation, promotes nutrient cycles and insect protection, and also has a positive effect on pest control.
in bavaria in particular, we have been working successfully with various agro-environmental and nature conservation programmes for decades.
and so it benefits man, animal and the environment.
it is for us in europe and for the world: the protection of biodiversity requires global action and global solutions.
the developing countries, whose budgets for environmental protection are often very small, need our support.
there are a variety of strategies in europe and worldwide, all aimed at halting the increasing loss of biodiversity.
the biodiversity strategy sets an ambitious target of ensuring that by 2050 at the latest, all ecosystems are healthy, resilient and rich in biodiversity.
only the links between biodiversity loss, its causes and how to combat it are complex.
but a very important point is that child protection is a human right and that every child has the right to grow up in an environment where violence is outlawed.
the most frequent concerns of the petitioners are access to information and the environment.
mr president, the united states is one of the eu’s closest partners and our transatlantic partnership is founded on shared values, such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and now we share the fight against climate change.
we have to cut emissions, we have to decarbonise and reach climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
let’s create a transatlantic alliance for climate neutrality.
let’s build a transatlantic trading zone for climate neutrality.
that is key to achieving the transition to climate-neutral and digitalised economies.
this report establishes a world order or calls for it that is built on the united states, with the eu in tow, building a world order based on fighting racism, standing up for lgbtq rights, and with the most important goal of climate action.
we are raising the bar, wanting to see the same standards that we europeans have in climate protection, in socio-political issues, also seen by others, especially the united states.
just like in the case of climate, our ability to act internationally will decide whether the eu will survive or implode in the coming years.
the first round of voting is scheduled for 1 p.m. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the report by mr christian doleschal on the subject 'environment: the århus regulation' (2020/0289 (cod)) (a9-0152/2021) has been referred to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
for in all our zeal to extend the scope of legal challenges to apparent threats to the environment, we should not forget that more power of action for individuals always means more bureaucracy.
only citizens of the union who can prove that they are directly affected by the pollution can bring an action.
this dysfunctional system does not create any sustainability, but only provides the ngos with highly subsidized jobs.
when we live in an information environment that is full of angry, hateful, polarising content, it erodes our civic trust, it erodes our faith in each other, it erodes our ability to want to care for each other.
when the scenario of rising energy costs and the threat of blackouts actually became tangible, when we could see it, all those who drew attention to it were called black painters.
so that means that in the long run, this is also our best hedge against the price increase of fossil fuels: out of fossils, into renewables, down on energy waste.
we are talking today about a completely new phenomenon: energy poverty.
this noble task, this warm feeling in the heart, to save the world from climate change mrs von der leyen can afford it, but unfortunately most europeans cannot.
the increase in energy prices in europe means job losses.
and of course, pricing co2 is important for climate protection, emissions trading is important.
fifthly, higher prices necessarily mean higher tax revenues on energy.
that is why we must reduce energy taxes.
rising energy costs mean the loss of jobs and wealth.
do you not also feel the strange irony that this is the place to talk about rising prices and energy poverty?
it is the commission, with its completely unsound policies, its uneconomic renewable energy ideology, its zero-emission dream and its out-of-control co2 pricing and reduction, which is not only supported by the overwhelming majority of meps, but also by you, ladies and gentlemen, who make it worse at every possible opportunity.
so is it precisely this pseudo-ecological-planned-economy doctrine that is the trigger and cause of the crisis we are now discussing?
energy poverty in two senses.
so the economic energy poverty caused by skyrocketing prices and the energy poverty caused by the lack of electricity are all your fault.
for your announced climate bailout to work, you would need marketable electricity for 24 hours, seven days a week.
but it's also clear that if we want our children to grow up in a world that is free and worth living in, we need to do more to protect the climate.
the energy transition is good for the climate and for the wallet.
madam president, commissioner simson, when we discussed here in this room in 2015 the ambitious plan for the energy union, we declared that we would never again allow any supplier to cycle our energy supply and threaten our energy security.
today, six years later, energy prices show that we have not provided for a sufficient diversified supply of fuel for the transition to natural gas.
and most importantly, we have not yet built the necessary green energy storage infrastructure to increase our energy independence.
accelerate the deployment of renewable energy and storage infrastructure, as well as the upgrading of existing infrastructure.
addressing energy poverty through dedicated holistic upgrading programmes in vulnerable neighbourhoods, promoting energy communities and encouraging small-scale green energy production by households is urgent.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
madam president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a real energy crisis on the eve of winter.
you cannot take measures to shut down, as happened in my country, the hunedoara energy complex without having alternative measures.
we cannot have millions of citizens who, right now, in my country and in other states, cannot pay their bills, cannot pay their energy and their heating, and entire families will be sitting out in the cold this winter.
that is why, commissioner, you must recognize that urgent action is needed because the energy strategy has failed and we must have action now, not in a month, not in two months.
we have to understand that the transition to green energy has to be done at the pace that alternative energy can come.
this has led to a huge increase in the demand for energy.
demand is rising and supply is stiffening, because energy solutions are being limited to certain technologies.
the possibility of a genuine mix between different energy sources, has always enabled our system to react flexibly to these emergencies.
the lack of energy to meet this increase in demand therefore increases prices.
we, the continent with the highest sustainability performance - as much as 35% of our electricity is now produced from renewable sources - cannot create a system that completely disadvantages other forms, for example by subtracting funding from another useful source for the transition, such as gas.
we must therefore return to that genuine mix in order to implement, for example, article 194 of the treaty on european union, which requires us not only to make the transition but also to ensure the security of energy supplies.
mr president, the european union has actually succeeded in quite a number of the objectives which were set for the energy union in the past.
we have achieved emissions reductions, increased renewable energy, improved energy efficiency, but we have not succeeded in reducing energy dependence.
on the contrary, europe's dependence on imported energy has even increased.
nord stream 2 runs counter to all the objectives set for the energy union.
the current rise in energy prices obviously requires rapid action in many member states.
we must be able to help citizens and businesses in difficulty, but in the long term the only way to improve the situation is to increase investment in renewable energy, diversify energy sources and also invest in nuclear power, which currently produces half of europe's zero-emission electricity.
within europe, we need to invest in self-sufficiency and diversification of energy sources, as well as in increasing regulatory capacity and storage, and in improving the flow of energy from one member state to another so that no member state is dependent on a single energy supplier or source.
madam president, energy prices have risen dramatically in recent months.
in greece, energy poverty affects over 20% of greeks, compared to the european average of just 7%.
our discussions today in parliament and among the eu finance ministers show that energy prices are extremely sensitive for both the public and industry.
affordable energy is a key promise of the social market economy, and internationally competitive electricity prices for industry will determine whether to continue producing in the eu or to move jobs and know-how abroad.
we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that energy is available reliably and at a reliable price.
responsible member states have responded by reducing taxes, levies and, indeed, by issuing energy vouchers.
the eu is committed to the massive expansion of renewable energy, storage capacity, grid expansion, green hydrogen and energy efficiency.
– faced with the rising energy costs, several eu governments have already announced measures to support low-income households in order to pay their energy bills.
i ask to the commission to produce a set of measures for the eu countries in order to tackle the rising energy price without breaching the bloc’s energy market rules.
eu countries can introduce safeguards to ensure that no one is disconnected from the energy grid, in order to assure economic and social sustainability.
providing targeted support to consumers, direct payments to those most at risk of energy poverty, cutting energy taxes, providing support to energy efficiency for buildings, and a plan to prevent speculation on the european carbon market, for not jeopardizing the energy transition are important measures, which could be taken very swiftly, under eu rules, in a transparent manner.
first, governments can take note of the eu’s success with the covid vaccine purchase and adopt a similar pooled approach to negotiate energy procurement.
some might argue that european climate efforts are partly to blame for the current crisis.
indeed, this is not the first time energy suppliers left europe high and dry.
the only way forward in the long term is energy autonomy.
for this, we need to press harder to create our own sources through renewable energy and to enhance conservation by improving energy efficiency.
the skyrocketing energy prices in many european countries are a hint of what will happen if we do not act wisely in implementing the green deal objectives.
the current energy price crisis also shows that the eu has a strategic interest in expanding renewable and low-carbon energy and in reducing its dependence on fossil fuels.
i therefore support the call for pragmatic, technology-neutral approaches to make as much low-cost and climate-friendly energy as possible available.
the euro costs germany alone around 100 billion euros a year in target2 loans and 80 billion euros in lost savings interest, much more expensive than the climate bailout, from which only green financial jugglers profit.
and there are still major joint projects to be undertaken, particularly in the digital and climate fields.
and we need the discussion about how to make tax breaks or write-offs to stop man-made climate change.
and then there's the insane cost of saving the climate.
because the german government believes that it is economically all-powerful, like the us after 1945, and is squandering money on grandiose monetary, financial, migration and climate projects that must fail because they are against the world order and reason.
by creating a new asylum agency, europe must move towards sustainable solutions that guarantee the fundamental rights of asylum seekers, in line with the rights of refugees, but also with our values of solidarity here in europe.
they fear losing a significant part of the €55 billion annual cap budget, which enriches them while impoverishing farmers and the environment.
so i applaud this text, even if it is imperfect, and call for its wide adoption for healthy food, for biodiversity and the climate and for farmers' incomes, but also to show our citizens that europe can act in their interests by responding to their demands, with more transparency and for more responsibility of food actors.
they provide proteins that are fished or farmed under environmentally and socially sustainable conditions and with a lower carbon footprint than those produced on land; they are produced under the most stringent regulatory framework in the world.
in the last few months, we in the committee on the environment and agriculture have been closely examining the proposal for the 'from the farm to the table' strategy and have drawn up a compromise package which gives a picture of how we envisage the future of the european food supply.
but we can only meet this responsibility if we know how to eat a healthy, balanced and sustainable diet.
they are the ones who ultimately decide the change of sustainability.
the explanatory statement of the committees responsible for this report, 'from the court to the table', calls for (literally) 'agriculture policy to be the most ambitious project of the current mandate of the eu commission', which is climate neutrality.
so they plan to drive agriculture into the wall, like electricity, squadroned by morality, orientation and the fact that knives and forks are the most important weapons in the fight against climate change, and of course rightly resent modern crop protection and fertilizers, all of which would be dangerous to human health.
and when you have done away with the technological agriculture that many here despise - agriculture that was once hailed as a green revolution, that was able and still is able to feed a rapidly growing world population - then, yes, then their climate-warming knives and forks will just hit an empty plate.
what we eat and how we produce it has a direct impact on human health, the environment and animal health.
the european commission has recognised the impact of intensive farming on these very issues with the 'from the farm to the table' strategy, and as the european parliament we must support these ambitions - the goals of reducing the use of pesticides, antibiotics and fertilisers, strengthening organic farming and animal husbandry, and also better informing consumers about the nutritional value and sustainability of products.
the strategy thus turns a number of important screws to make the food system more sustainable, with concrete instruments to follow.
and we can argue about everything -- about social policy, about economic policy, about climate justice, about digitization, about foreign policy -- but we have to agree on issues of democracy and the rule of law.
i’m talking about the devastating effects of climate change, which were visible across the union and the entire world.
as the coming year will mark the mid-term of this mandate, we need to leave sufficient time for co-legislators to finalise the negotiations well in time for the european elections in 2024. let me give you a few examples of key initiatives planned for 2022. the green deal continues to be our growth strategy, and further action is needed to meet our ambitious target of carbon neutrality by 2050. we will therefore propose a certification framework for carbon removals to boost their sustainable deployment and create a new business model to reward land managers.
to deliver on our zero-pollution action plan, we will tackle surface and groundwater pollutants, as well as ambient air quality.
a european chips act will help foster an innovative and state—of—the—art european ecosystem for semi—conductors to develop new markets and prevent current supply shortages from recurring in the future.
along with our global gateway initiative, fostering transport, energy and telecommunication links with partners across the globe, we will work towards developing a strategic partnership with the gulf.
we will therefore present an action plan on international ocean governance that will confirm the eu’s ambition to lead the quest to deliver the 2030 agenda on sustainable development goals.
we also propose a new strategy on international energy engagement with the goal of moving away from fossil fuel imports and towards green energy solutions.
better regulation will also continue to support sustainability and the digital transformation, by focusing on the ‘do no significant harm’ and ‘digital-by-default’ principles.
we think of the results of the vaccination strategy, which are allowing us to put european citizens in health safety, or the progress of the european green deal, with the presentation of the "fit for 55" package for carbon neutrality, up to the action plan of the social pillar and the work on the digital transition.
these first years of the commission's mandate have put our progressive agenda into practice and now we must also proceed with the programme which the commission is presenting to us today for 2022. we believe that the post-pandemic future cannot be based on business as usual but rather requires a radical rethinking of our society and economy, putting sustainable development, health, social progress and gender equality at the centre of what we want to see more of in the commission's initiatives.
– madam president, addressing vice-president šefčovič i wish to start by saying, commissioner, that you haven’t talked all too much about climate and biodiversity, which is still the most pressing issue for our mid-term and long-term societal problematics, and i know this was part of the work programme last year but the work is still not done.
we see very clearly our weaknesses and our vulnerability that we have in depending on fossil fuel imports, especially from russia at the moment, as we see the skyrocketing energy prices that are linked to some geopolitical games played by that side.
so becoming energy autonomous or as autonomous as possible, please put that at the forefront of your political proposals.
well, health is an issue that is related to global warming, but health is also related to many other topics towards environmental protection.
and i really want to say a word against what mr aubry said, that farmers are endangered by or victims of the farm to fork strategy or environmental policies.
if we go environmental, then this is helping the farmers.
madam president, mr vice-president šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change, social exclusion and unemployment: these are the priorities our citizens highlighted in the latest eurobarometer survey.
the 2023 deadline does not give us much time to reach a consensus, we need to move quickly to define a european golden rule for green, digital and social investment and to radically reform the indicators that are currently used in the european semester to complement the sustainable development goals.
it has to be our, i would say, longer term ambition, otherwise we would not fulfil what the commission wants to deliver with regard to reducing the risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 15 million people by 2030. we want to use the mff, the next generation eu, also for these very important goals and therefore we are proposing a very important number of initiatives to achieve these goals, including a proposal of minimum wages, a child guarantee, affordable housing initiative, and to make sure that we will not forget about the regions which are going through very difficult social or environmental or industrial transitions.
it’s an enormous amount of work we had to do, and therefore i think that close cooperation on delivering this on time would be very, very important because indeed, these proposals have the transformational potential which would clearly put europe on a safer and better path, and we again would continue to be a pioneers in tackling climate change.
if you allow me to close on ms aubry’s very important point on energy prices.
i agree with you that in the long run we need to be autonomous, we have to be more green and we have to be less dependent on energy imports from outside the union.
we need to find ways to take this energy from the citizens and insert it into the political process every year.
it includes, for example, the european green deal, in which it intends to introduce carbon offset certification, and the zero pollution action plan.
corona has also seen a vast increase in capacities to try to basically grapple with the situation, we have brexit and other difficult procedures at our borders, and we obviously need to fight climate change, where more resources are needed.
second, the commission's strategic role should focus on the best approaches to achieving the sustainable development goals.
fourth, the eu will have to step up its efforts to combat climate change, an area in which it already plays a leading role.
the core priorities for the union – and i think we share the same view – are the recovery of the european economy, the fight against climate change and the eu green and digital transition.
regarding the financing of research and innovation: the council recognises that horizon europe is an essential instrument to support the recovery of our economies from the pandemic and to contribute to the green deal, to a climate—neutral economy and to a successful digital transition.
third, the parliament proposes reinforcements for a number of programmes for 2022, for example in research and innovation, including the use of article 15(3) of the financial regulation, climate action, employment opportunities for youth, including the child guarantee, actions related to asylum and migration and health.
climate change makes the natural world less predictable, both within the union and abroad, so let me stress that a timely agreement on a solid eu budget is the best way to support our society and our economy, and respond to the expectations of our citizens.
the 2022 eu budget is the second budget of the multiannual financial framework, and it is clear that we want to achieve the paris climate targets by 2030 at the latest.
we greens have three priorities for the 2022 eu budget: climate, biodiversity and research and development.
because it is clear: we need strong research and innovation for green technology, for decarbonising the economy and for an ecological-social transformation for a strong economic location in europe.
in concrete terms, this means that over €450 million is going to climate and biodiversity programmes - my personal highlight is the €171 million increase for life - and over €430 million is now going to research and development.
my colleagues have mentioned many of the points that we believe are relevant for future investment: climate youth programmes, digitisation, ensuring the future competitiveness.
but unlike the many bills we are currently debating in parliament which are supposed to bring us to climate neutrality, these directives are not being decided democratically.
but competition must not undermine our climate goals or the democratically adopted energy market legislation from the clean energy package.
there must be a strong support for renewable energy.
regional differentiation must be possible, so that wind energy in southern germany, for example, can also be promoted.
and there must be substantial exceptions to the tendering rules for citizen energy.
because otherwise we have the problem that the rights of citizen energy from the clean energy package are not worth the paper they are written on.
people want to be part of the energy transition, people want to be part of the path to climate neutrality.
but, as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on the eu’s hydrogen strategy, i would like to comment on your proposal from a different, much more positive, angle.
the draft guidelines are a big step forward because they support the uptake of renewable and low—carbon hydrogen in all types of activities and across the whole value chain, which is key to keep eu leadership and achieve scale—up in a synchronised manner.
second, it would be good to increase the percentages of aid intensities applicable outside of bidding processes to better take into account the different development of hydrogen infrastructures in member states, and, third, facilitate cross-border renewable energy and hydrogen projects to bring down costs.
we have been discussing in this house, just two weeks ago, the issue of rising energy prices.
an example from my constituency: a medium-sized company that specialises in the production of sustainable fuels such as wood pellets.
but the production process is very energy-intensive.
a single basic act and horizontal provisions applicable to all partnerships were a step in the right direction, and in many places we have succeeded in making relevant improvements, also thanks to some green proposals, for example on climate objectives, civil society involvement, transparency, accountability and reporting obligations, scientific expertise in governance structures, composition of stakeholder groups, to name just a few keywords.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the recent rise in energy prices is, of course, of huge concern.
we must reach the eu’s 2030 goal of cutting emissions by 55%.
in delivering our climate targets, we must ensure the transition to clean energy is as smooth as possible in terms of energy costs and security.
increased energy efficiency and accelerated deployment of renewables will be key in this regard.
mr president, if you have to make ends meet every month, you may find climate change worrying, but you are mainly concerned with paying the increased rent, the healthcare premium and the energy bill.
and let's not let ourselves in europe be held hostage by putin or people who take advantage of high energy bills to do nothing about climate change.
i hope that this spirit of solidarity and cooperation will inspire the important decisions that the european council will face, in the digital transformation, including the cyclical and structural response to rising energy prices, in the definition of a new generation of sustainable trade policies and in the use of all the instruments at our disposal to ensure mass and global vaccination.
madam president, this is a very important european council in the context of the fact that we have not yet definitively defeated the coronavirus pandemic, and the increase in energy prices worries european citizens in all countries.
i think we need to adopt the taxonomy for natural gas and nuclear energy as soon as possible and we need to find those mechanisms in the eu ets that will protect us as much as possible from speculative increases in the price of co2 certificates.
the council must be more proactive in reacting and this is true, including for the energy price crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that the construction of europe began with energy, with a project for the joint management of coal and steel, and today, in the face of the terrible price crisis affecting households and businesses, we must have the same courage, the same vision, we must make a leap forward in european integration.
in addition to the bills, we must also tackle the structural problems of the energy market, which is too fragmented and not sufficiently interconnected, that is to say, it is too little european.
the president's proposals lack a number of important points, in the view of my group: a common purchasing mechanism, so that europe is more powerful in the negotiations and also in the geopolitical game; a renewable energy development plan with africa; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the financial speculation that exists in the ets mechanism.
madam president, europe is on the verge of an energy crisis.
the increase in energy prices is also a consequence of past speculation.
the rising energy prices will push many to the edge of survival.
in slovenia, about 40 000 households are threatened with poverty due to rising energy prices.
we need a european energy marshall plan and we must not allow the transition to a green and zero-carbon society to leave anyone behind.
but the topic which dominated today’s discussion, and all parliamentary leaders intervened in that respect, was energy, energy prices.
i would like to reassure you that we in the commission recognise the urgency of the situation, and we must, as mr schieder just referred to, prevent energy poverty and negative spillover effects to the wider economy.
and we can work together with member states on cutting energy taxes and levies, and i am glad that 20 member states are already proceeding in that regard.
on top of this, i also want to tell you that we hear you loud and clear, and we will clamp down on speculation in energy, gas and carbon markets as was proposed by mr moreno sánchez.
therefore, we asked acer, the agency of the european energy regulators, to proceed quickly to prepare preliminary findings, which i hope we will be able to share with you definitely before the end of the year, and then it would be up to us to decide how to proceed further.
on top of this, we know that a big issue in our energy markets is supply of gas.
we just need to manage them better, more responsibly, to make sure that europe is more resilient, and for that, i think we can find inspiration in how we manage oil reserves with a three-month reserve, and i think we should proceed in the same way in the case of gas, and therefore the commission will prepare a european framework for this type of approach in the future and for more regular stress testing of our energy systems before each winter.
having said all this, i think it just underlines what is very important, and thank you very much to the honourable members for highlighting how dependent we are on the imports of fossil energy and how important it is to focus more on development of truly indigenous european energy sources.
sun and wind are not only clean, but they are truly european and therefore also this crisis must just reinforce our ambition for cop26 in glasgow, where i am absolutely convinced europe will prepare the most ambitious approach on how to solve not only current energy prices, but how to tackle the challenge of our lifetime, and this is climate change.
on energy prices, the presidency is active in this field.
on 22 september, the informal meeting of energy ministers took place, where several delegations started to voice concern about increasing energy prices, and a couple of delegations also made concrete suggestions, mostly aimed at renewing the functioning of the eu emissions trading system.
in the last two weeks, energy prices were further discussed at the competitiveness council, at the eurogroup, at the eu—western balkans summit, and at the environment council.
on 13 october, the commission released its toolbox to help member states to curb the rise of energy prices, and member states already have a chance to react to this commission communication.
after the discussion at the summit, the presidency has also scheduled an informal ministerial meeting of energy ministers on 26 october.
- the question for oral answer to the council on the un climate change conference in glasgow, united kingdom (cop26) by pascal canfin, lídia pereira, javi lópez, nils torvalds, catherine griset, pär holmgren, anna zalewska, petros kokkalis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000065/0000 - b9-0039/21) (2021/2667(rsp), and the question for oral answer to the commission on the un climate change conference in glasgow, united kingdom (cop26) by mr j.p. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments on the draft legislative proposal to the council.
– madam president, we now turn to a very important discussion on climate change and the climate conference that we’re going to have in glasgow in two weeks’ time, which is very clearly going to be one of the most important climate conferences we’ve seen in the last couple of years, where member states of the world need to be stepping up their climate ambition.
if you look at climate science and the latest ipcc report that was launched in august this summer, it is becoming more and more clear that the climate impacts are more severe and there are clearer reasons to limit global warming well below two degrees, as we said in the paris agreement.
what’s even worse is that, at this stage, if we look at all the national pledges around the world, emissions are still expected to rise by 2030. however, the ipcc and climate science is making very clear that by 2030, in order to keep 1.5 degrees within reach, we need a reduction of 45% by 2030 globally.
their pledges to reach carbon neutrality by 2060 and the peak of emissions by 2030 are insufficient if we look at what needs to happen.
a country like australia is certainly worth mentioning, because they have not yet come forward with climate neutrality targets despite all the other developed countries doing so.
very importantly – and this is probably also an assignment for the european commission – there is still a lack of mainstreaming of the green deal and climate policies into all the areas and fields.
i would certainly also like to mention climate finance here.
article 2, the backbone of the paris agreement, makes very clear that things need to happen on mitigation and adaptation, but the third element of article 2 very clearly also obliges all the signatories of the paris agreement to make their financial flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development.
so the third pillar of the paris agreement, besides mitigation, adaptation, is making the financial flows consistent with our low carbon pathways.
it also very much welcomes the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) as part of the ‘fit for 55’ package, so that this entire package makes very clear that europe can deliver on the promises it makes, so that we will ensure that in glasgow we have a leading role.
after the postponement of cop last year and a stark reminder in the last ipcc report of the dangers of climate change, it is more urgent than ever to strengthen global climate action and to finalise without delay the implementation of the paris agreement.
it is important that the world comes out of glasgow with bold climate targets and an ambitious and effective rulebook to guide global mitigation and adaptation measures for the years to come.
first, is to substantively raise global emission reduction and commit to achieve net zero emissions in line with the latest scientific findings, in order to keep 1.5 degrees within reach.
second, to finalize the rulebook on the issue of carbon markets, as well as to agree on a common time frame, aligning the timelines of the climate pledges of all parties and ensure that global climate action is conducted in a transparent and accountable manner.
third, to strengthen global adaptation measures and building resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change.
and fourth, to increase the global efforts to meet the climate finance pledge of usd 100 billion a year to developing countries.
the conclusion emphasised the extreme urgency of stepping up the global response to address the climate emergency and underlined the need for a just and fair climate position across the world.
regarding the rulebook on article 6, the agreement to be reached at cop26 should ensure a robust accounting for the use of international carbon markets, avoid double counting and also guarantee environmental integrity and ambition.
finally, as regards climate finance, the eu and its member states will continue scaling up their contribution to international climate finance as part of the goal of developed countries to collectively mobilise usd 100 billion per year through 2025 and will continue to urge other developed countries to do the same.
the eu and its member states are the largest contributor of international public climate finance and since 2013 have more than doubled their contribution.
in any event, the eu will engage constructively with the other parties to ensure a stronger climate finance goal for the post—2025 period.
president, honourable members, a number of parties, ngos, young people gathered last month in milan and the public at large have called on the cop to do more to address the climate emergency.
the world is currently not on the path to keep global warming well below 2 degrees and keep 1.5 degrees within reach.
in this context, at cop26, the eu wants to negotiate an ambitious and effective implementation of the paris agreement, and we call on all parties to come forward with strengthened national emissions reduction targets and international climate finance pledges.
– madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for the opportunity to have this important debate as we look ahead to preparations for the upcoming 26th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in glasgow.
however, limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees by the end of the century, with the temperature overshoot, is still possible.
it is still possible if parties achieve drastic cuts in emissions in the coming decade and net zero emissions around 2050. significantly increased global mitigation efforts will reduce the risks and impacts of climate change, but we will also need to collectively and urgently scale up our efforts to adapt to the many unprecedented and irreversible changes in the climate systems in all regions of the world.
as if all this was not enough, the latest report from the oecd shows that the donor community is off track from reaching the goal of mobilising usd 100 billion annually from 2020 to 2025. against this background, the cop26 council conclusions, adopted two weeks ago, set out the eu’s main political objectives for glasgow: raising global ambition, enhancing resilience and scaling up climate finance.
we have a strong responsibility to those societies most vulnerable and existentially threatened by climate change.
the nationally determined contributions and net zero strategies of all parties should set each of us on a path to net zero emissions, in line with the principles of progression and the highest possible ambitions, as set out in the paris agreement.
compromises that put environmental integrity at risk are not acceptable to us.
fostering global ambition, ensuring environmental integrity and avoiding double counting are at the core of the paris agreement and of the eu position on market mechanisms.
this is why we adopted an adaptation strategy for the eu, which was submitted to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) ahead of glasgow and calls for the other parties also to communicate how they are stepping up their respective adaptation actions.
furthermore, the eu and its member states support many activities to avert, minimise and address loss and damage through development cooperation, disaster risk reduction and humanitarian aid, as well as dedicated climate funds, organisations and initiatives inside and outside the climate process.
however, we must be mindful that all actors must step up their efforts to face the challenges of climate change.
we need to advocate for mainstreaming the climate issue in other relevant policy areas so that we can better consider the risks and needs of the most vulnerable in all our support efforts and in international processes.
we have to do this in the same way that the eu supports mainstreaming of climate action across all financial flows, including development institutions.
the eu and its 27 member states remain the largest contributor of public climate finance to developing countries, including to the multilateral climate funds, and contributed eur 21.9 billion in climate finance for 2019. this is double the level in 2013. as you know, president von der leyen, just last month, committed an additional eur 4 billion until 2027. as part of a global effort, the eu will continue to take the lead in mobilising climate finance from a wide variety of sources, instruments and channels.
these include instruments to unlock the huge potential of private finance through the targeted use of public climate finance.
to this end, following the commission’s action plan on financing sustainable growth and the follow—up strategy for financing the transition to a sustainable economy, progress is being made on various fronts: on an eu taxonomy for environmentally sustainable economic activities, on sustainability—related disclosures for issuers and for financial market participants, on the european green bond standard, and on corporate sustainability reporting.
all this demonstrates increasing awareness of the need for global climate action.
finally, climate change, the biodiversity crisis and desertification, as well as land, water and ocean degradation, are strongly interconnected and reinforce each other.
climate change and the nature crisis can only be successfully addressed in a coherent approach that comprises mutually beneficial strategies, including nature—based solutions with safeguards.
this was very clearly highlighted by the recent joint report by the un, the ipcc and the intergovernmental science-policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services, and this must also be reflected in the upcoming two cops.
we saw a positive first part of the biodiversity cop15 in kunming last week, and we will pursue our efforts in this regard, also in view of the second part of cop15, which will reconvene in face—to—face mode in kunming next spring.
therefore, the eu will continue pursuing closer cooperation and synergies between the un, the unfccc and the un convention on biological diversity, including the alignment with the post—2020 global biodiversity framework, and we will further advance measures for mutually reinforcing co-benefits for climate mitigation and adaptation and halting biodiversity loss.
mr president, mr commissioner, in the face of the climate emergency we cannot compete with each other, we cannot confront each other in fact, it is this zero-sum logic that the world has entered in many of its dimensions ; in the face of the climate emergency we can only do one thing, which is to cooperate: cooperate with each other, cooperate so that the international community complies with the agreements already established such as the paris agreement , cooperate for a rapid and deep reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and cooperate so that the global emergency that climate change has become becomes collective global action.
and the biggest instrument for cooperation that we have is the cop, the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, and, at the important cop meeting that we are now going to hold in glasgow, what the european parliament wants to express, hopefully, but also with demand, is that we need immediate, ambitious and concrete progress to combat climate change, progress so that the g20 as a whole commits to being climate neutral by the year 2050. we've had some good news, haven't we?
some relevant developments in this area from europe, from the united states, from japan, from china... but we need more, we need to determine national contributions and progress on this: we need progress on meeting climate finance commitments - it should be 100 billion for developing countries; we need progress on regulating carbon markets.
the pandemic has taught us what humanity is capable of with collective will and with the ability to mobilise resources and funding; now should be the time to set up a green global recovery that europe is able to lead in the world, accelerate the abandonment of our dependence on fossil fuels and push for a climate agenda that goes hand in hand with a just and social transition, because the planet and our lives, our way of life, are at stake.
at the last cop in madrid, the european council - later than the european parliament, but at least - voted for climate neutrality by 2050, and now it is law in europe.
i agree with the resolution that we need to do more with china, because carbon neutrality in 2060 is certainly not enough.
international climate policy must be a priority at all levels.
but i strongly disagree with all those who say that we should make some cuts in the package of 55 pounds because we have high energy prices.
renewable energy and energy efficiency can be like the coronavirus vaccine: if we invest, we become immune to high fossil fuel prices.
and if the disease gets worse, then the same thing happens with corona, as with the high energy prices: then you can't stop producing the vaccine, but then you have to speed up the vaccination.
therefore, it is too fit for 55 precisely because of the high energy prices.
the un recently calculated that even if all countries' current climate pledges were met, global emissions would still rise, equivalent to temperatures rising by as much as 2.7 degrees by the year 2100. and that is absolutely disastrous.
reducing global emissions to zero by 2050 is the only way forward.
we simply have to raise our climate ambitions.
renewable energy, energy efficiency, it's absolutely critical in the green transition.
it can only go too slowly, and climate must and must be taken into account in all eu policies.
ladies and gentlemen, the climate summit in glasgow is the most important climate summit in recent times.
mr president, commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the planet is burning with mega-heaters, it is sinking with floods and every european woman, every european woman is feeling the effects of climate change in her own flesh today.
and yet, we're only 1.2 degrees from global warming.
the ipcc tells us all about the responsibilities and the origin of this climate disorder.
but what we care about here is political responsibility, and today what prevents us from having a future that is good for us and our children is political conformity, complacency or, too often, alienation from powerful lobbies, those lobbies of the old world, those lobbies of dirty energy or intensive agriculture.
we see it every day from a political point of view: the common agricultural policy is not compatible, trade policy is not compatible with our climate agenda.
and what we have today are victims of climate change, victims of the energy crisis.
so we have to invest in energy saving, in renewable energy.
important decisions need to be taken in glasgow on binding co2 reduction targets, funding and adaptation to climate change.
the epp would also like to see the eu appoint a climate commissioner with cabinet rank to work with government representatives from the other 160 countries to advance climate action.
because only if we get the world to phase out coal, and build renewable energy, and energy efficiency, and hydrogen, and do disaster preparedness together, will we be able to stop global warming.
yes, we need a john kerry too, and no, a vice-president timmermans for climate policy is not enough, because as we see, he has his hands full to push the green deal forward properly within the eu.
the new budget sets a target of 30% of our expenditure, for example in development policy and agricultural policy, on climate action.
the taxonomy is also intended to channel financial flows in a sustainable way.
so please: let's take a good example and put the eu in a better position on international climate policy with a high-level climate commissioner.
in a few days, the climate conference in glasgow will begin, and many scientists say this is the last chance to put the world on a 1.5 degree path.
we would be sleepwalking into climate catastrophe, and our children and grandchildren would still find the debates being held here today about subsidies for fossil gas or energy-intensive plastic production absurd.
but the convention also makes it crystal clear that the industrial nations, with their historically high emissions, have an obligation to do more and be climate neutral by 2050. let's get to it.
in two weeks, politicians and a steadily growing number of self-appointed climate elites will meet again to fight the self-inflicted disasters with words and a lot of money.
two years ago in madrid, behind huge exhibition halls, container-like piles of trash that had previously wrapped your woke climate food.
your pippi longstocking climate world is simply failing to meet the harsh realities of the day, but it's giving the taxpayer record prices that you don't care about.
six years after paris, we're going to the climate conference with climate targets and measures that don't even meet the 2 degree climate target.
if we really want to be a global leader, that means no new fossil fuel subsidies; then that means an end date for natural gas, and it means joining the initiative of other countries that are committing to a zero-carbon by 2030. the question to the commission is: will we be part of this initiative?
we greens argue that the european union is doing just that and is therefore truly leading the way in climate protection.
we must not focus only on the energy sector, as the commission proposed in its methane strategy last year, but we need to focus on agriculture too, since this is the biggest contributor in the european union, and the waste sector.
i want to reiterate that measurement, reporting and verification (mrv) and the leak detection and repair programme (ldar) should therefore be tackled in the legislation and not limited to the energy sector.
the phase-out of fossil fuels is the most valid instrument for reducing methane emissions in the energy sector.
the report therefore addresses methane emissions, which, according to the present report, are the second most important greenhouse gas after co2.
the sources are clearly identified as agriculture (40%), fossil fuels (35%) and waste (20%).
since the green notion of an end to fossil fuels due to co2 emissions is a consensus that was probably decided yesterday, two things remain: agriculture specifically livestock and fertilisers are the main sources.
the solutions remain vague: vegan diets, the use of any residues in biogas plants fertilizer would no longer exist in the ideal vegan world and that in a bioeconomy new skills and new knowledge somehow fell from the climate sky.
it may be true that 53% of methane emissions in the eu come from agriculture.
but only 5% of global emissions come from the eu, so the eu's share of agricultural methane emissions is only 2.6% globally.
the commission will continue to support member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals related and relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education.
some of them are themselves civil society actors and ngos, there are many small and large foundations that dedicate their work to combating hate, supporting people in need or fighting climate change, as ngos being foundations themselves.
yet a legal, fiscal and administrative environment for cross—border philanthropy is not there yet, at least not in the form that would enable us to support this sector.
but while the proposal is well-intentioned, it is unfortunately poorly made, because there are too many definitions of content and references to ideological rubber-stamps such as lgbti, climate change or hate speech.
lawsuits against journalists defending excessive minority rights, climate hysteria or left-wing identity politics are supported.
according to this parliament, the rights and freedoms mentioned only apply to journalists defending climate hysteria, left-wing identity politics or mass immigration.
and through the creation of common european capacities, we can be more competitive and we can be ready to meet new global challenges, while contributing to the ecological and digital transformation.
only then will we be able to identify and develop the technologies that will enable us to make an inclusive and financially sustainable transformation of our societies.
the ttc the trade and technology council is a building block to a transatlantic alliance for climate neutrality.
the us and the eu are looking in the same direction on climate change.
in energy justice, in just transition and in the inclusion of people affected by the transformation, we also need to think globally and work well together.
and the ttc is supposed to be a forum for the supply of raw materials, for sustainable and resilient supply chains, for market creation, for secondary raw materials and for the exchange of know-how on green technology.
semiconductors are important for digitisation and climate protection.
because only in this way will we achieve our common goal, the green deal, which includes meeting the paris climate target and preserving our competitiveness and our jobs in europe.
we're talking about rare earths: lithium, borate, bauxite, tantalum and 25 other critical minerals that are essential for renewable energy technologies, for more energy efficiency, for electric mobility, for more digital applications and for better medical care.
this year, we have tightened our climate targets to 2030: climate neutrality is set for 2050 at the latest.
we need clear positive signals in particular for financing sustainable raw materials projects: in national recovery plans, taxonomy, for investments in the development of recycling and secondary raw materials markets, for projects in former mining regions, for materials research and for an ipcei, an important project of common european interest.
of course, we need to tap the full potential of the circular economy: from product design to waste collection, to strict control of our waste exports, to recycling rates, to reducing the overall material footprint.
as did my colleagues on the trade committee, who supported the establishment of new strategic partnerships, the review of our trade agreements and the push for sustainable mining in third countries through the introduction of due diligence.
our green deal must be built on solid foundations of industrial, environmental, strategic and ethical principles.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not europe needs raw materials for the transition to a climate-neutral economy.
the use of critical raw materials in green technologies also has positive effects on the environment.
but we also know that mining for raw materials is a risk to local people, to biodiversity and to the climate.
this is fatal to our industrial strategy, but also to the achievement of our climate, environmental and social objectives.
and if we now promote raw materials in natura 2000 and other protected areas, the eu's environmental protection under the green deal is going to the absurd.
we need sustainable practices that are socially acceptable.
green innovation in industry, new production technologies, conservation of resources and resource efficiency - this is the right way to make the transition to a climate-neutral economy.
billionaire oil investor advises eu on green and social finance the eu commission's decision to commission a study on sustainable finance from the financial group blackrock has rightly been sharply criticised.
advisors like that are damaging our climate policy credibility.
i therefore ask you, mrs kyriakides, to make an international effort to ensure that environmental regulations are included in the rules governing the manufacture of medicinal products, so that we can have a level playing field worldwide.
while the judge rapporteur of the recent pro climate rescue judgment is close to the greens and married to a green politician.
the volcano has done it all, and european money must go to repair damaged infrastructure, equipment, energy and water, and schools and medical centres destroyed by lava.
it is also more environmentally friendly: 25% of direct payments are used for environmental measures.
so, to sum up once again: in the interests of european farmers, in the interests of security of supply, in the interests of the environment, please vote in favour of the reform!
and lastly, because i see christophe hansen in front of me, we have never before discussed agricultural reform in such close cooperation with the environment committee.
briefly: today's decision concerns 10 million farms in the union, including 8.5 million family farms, 27 national administrations in the member states and 450 million citizens who need planning and legal certainty, who want high quality food, liveable rural areas and climate and environmentally compatible production and marketing.
the rapidly rising energy prices and the political developments in the field of farm-to-fork and biodiversity strategy, together with the current market situation, are leading to increased cost pressures that are putting production security in question and putting farms in fear of survival.
at the same time, agriculture has an obligation to support the transition to a climate-neutral europe by 2050. i would point out that today more than half of the carbon dioxide emissions from the agri-food sector are already due to factors unrelated to agricultural activity.
that is why my approach is to combine security of supply and climate protection in the new cap.
we felt it was essential that farmers should be able to obtain a fairer and more stable income to support them in the ecological transition.
we have obtained an extension of the authorization to plant vines until 2045, and we know how essential this is for a sector that needs stability to move towards greater sustainability.
the energy value of wines will now have to be specified on the label and on the bottles, and the list of ingredients will be made more widely known to consumers.
it is economic nonsense, it is budgetary nonsense, it is environmental nonsense and it is social nonsense.
on the contrary, we should really come together to tackle the major challenges that lie ahead of us in an international environment that is more unstable than ever.
we have to respond to the challenges of climate, food security and food sovereignty.
it is up to us to re-establish the link between agriculture, food, health, biodiversity, climate and territories to provide solutions to these challenges.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
if food production was at the heart of the cap 50 years ago, today the environment, biodiversity and climate protection are at the top of its agenda.
irresponsible, because a no also means no to more climate and environmental protection.
take responsibility for our environment and our farmers!
it is a good and balanced outcome that will allow the common agricultural policy to play its role in ensuring the transition towards more sustainable agriculture.
we have the opportunity to grant our citizens a strong common agricultural policy that will contribute to all three dimensions of sustainability – economic, social and environmental.
it will foster a sustainable and competitive agricultural sector that can support the livelihoods of farmers and provide healthy and sustainable food for society, while delivering significantly more in terms of environment and climate, in line with the european green deal ambitions.
we can be satisfied with the so—called green architecture of the strategic plan regulation, the pillar of environmental sustainability.
the final deal sends a clear political signal of the union’s commitment to respond more decisively to the scale and urgency of the environmental and climate challenges the union is facing.
they will have to show the right level of ambition when designing eco—schemes and in the overall set—up of environmental and climate interventions, addressing effectively the key challenges they will have identified in their strategic plans.
the wine sector will also benefit from a substantial number of new elements that will ensure the long—term sustainable development of the sector.
the quality of member states’ cap strategic plans is a condition sine qua non for the new cap to deliver and lead the way to a more sustainable eu agricultural sector.
to conclude, let me mention that the cap alone cannot address all the challenges we face in terms of economic, environmental and social sustainability.
there is no doubt that the new cap can in many ways send positive signals to european farmers about the stability of their income and production, as well as responding to the challenges of european climate policy.
but i regret to say that the new cap does not solve social inequalities, does not meet environmental objectives and does not contribute to reducing bureaucracy.
for at least five years, we will divide farmers into equal and unequal groups by allocating direct payments based on historical data rather than on current reality, distorting competition and breaking promises made before 2013. we have failed to agree on a list of effective echo schemes, leaving decisions to each country to make individually we have created chaos that will prevent climate commitments from being met.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done.
the money would be needed to help our farmers make the transition to truly sustainable food production.
its objectives are competitiveness, food security, environmental protection and rural development.
i believe that the strongest aspect of what was agreed in the trialogue agreement is precisely the focus on environmental protection and the strengthening of the powers of the member states.
the new cap, in addition to being more environmentally friendly, must guarantee the economic and social sustainability of farmers and rural areas.
and for me, agriculture is clearly part of the solution to more climate and environmental protection.
i therefore consider excessive regulation in the context of the green deal to be counterproductive and unsuitable, because we must also and always keep in mind the social and economic sustainability of the farms.
digitalisation, sustainable economies, solid growth: the coming years will be challenging for the european union for our economy .
i would say they made the confession that all our individual nations lost part of their sovereignty exactly because, alone, they cannot safeguard or represent their citizens’ rights when it comes to climate change, healthcare, rising energy prices, leadership and research, global trade, national security and so many other fields which we see represented in our budget.
we have barely ever seen such a focused budget underlining our priorities, be it in the fight against climate change, in our solidarity via vaccination campaigns and in supporting our research excellence, just to name a couple of examples.
the deal we reached reflects our common priorities: economic recovery in the aftermath of the covid—19 pandemic; the fight against climate change; and the green and digital transition.
so this enables us to kick-start a sustainable recovery and to protect and create jobs.
these negotiations were not always in a very perfect environment on the council side, if i may say it in that respect, but finally, we could get an agreement.
a few details on the agreement - not everything which is in my briefing in order not to waste too much time, but i think it’s again important to highlight that the overall level of commitment appropriations in 2022 is set at eur 169.5 billion and this is an increase of 1.6% compared to 2021. the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2022 budget is set at eur 170.6 billion.
in times of the challenging covid crisis, we have to fight against climate change and for biodiversity.
therefore our green priorities for the eu 2022 budget are climate protection, biodiversity, and research and development.
this means that, for 2022, we as the european parliament were able to achieve close to eur 480 million more than proposed by the commission, and for our green number-one priority, the climate and biodiversity programme life, we achieved an eur 47.5 million top—up.
nevertheless, it’s clear that we have to fight even more ambitiously for the climate and the environment in the 2023 eu budget.
the money we spend in the eu shows very clearly how seriously we take the green deal and the paris climate goals.
it is high time that the commission put forward the announced climate proposals for trade.
we also need action on harmful subsidies and biodiversity protection.
show that we're going to address the climate crisis and overfishing.
i appreciate your initiatives to make the task of sustainability a strong part of the wto.
make it your priority that the wto commits itself to supporting sustainable development and joins the fight against climate catastrophe with all its potential!
– mr president, climate change is the defining challenge of the century.
international cooperation on both climate change mitigation and adaptation is critical to successfully addressing this challenge, which requires an unprecedented collective effort from all countries.
after two weeks of intense discussion, cop 26 resulted in the completion of the paris agreement rulebook and kept the paris target alive, improving our chances of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius.
the glasgow climate pact is a result of complex climate negotiations.
most notably, leaders signed the glasgow leaders’ declaration on forests and land use, committing more than 140 countries to halt and reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030, and the global methane pledge, committing 100 countries to collectively reduce global methane emissions by 30% by 2030. the commission signed this commitment on behalf of the european union.
moreover, the santiago network for catalysing technical assistance to address loss and damage as a result of climate change has been strengthened, which is in particular important for the most vulnerable countries.
as regards finance, the paris parties regrettably noted that the pledge of usd 100 billion in climate finance per year by 2020 has not been met.
however, developed countries committed to reaching the goal as soon as possible and to at least double their collective provision of climate finance dedicated to adaptation in developing countries.
as regards the rulebook of the paris agreement, the parties adopted rules on the transparency framework, guaranteeing sound reporting on climate action progress.
in addition, parties reached an acceptable compromise on achieving rules governing the functioning of a voluntary carbon market, avoiding double counting.
all together, cop 26 represent a significant step forward in global climate action, helping to keep the paris goals within reach.
– mr president, cop26 did not solve the climate crisis, but that was also not the purpose of cop26.
we now have a global consensus on the need to limit climate change to 1.5 degrees.
before glasgow, the commission set three objectives: first, to push for emission cuts that bring us within paris territory with ndcs that keep global warming well below 2 degrees, while aiming for 1.5; second, to close the gap on the usd 100 billion climate finance goal, while ramping up support for adaptation; and, third, to complete the paris rulebook so that we can keep track of progress and hold countries to account.
the paris rulebook seems like an esoteric subject sometimes, but it is essential to have carbon markets actually function in a way we want them to function.
two years ago, at the cop in madrid, the eu laid down our ambition for climate neutrality by 2050. at that stage, there was little to no movement from other major emitters in the g20, china, the us, but also japan, south korea, india, russia, saudi arabia and others.
since then, each of these countries has announced targets of their own, varying from climate neutrality in 2050 to net zero carbon emissions in 2060, and, in a single case, india, 2070.
i will not take into my narrative the 1.8 mentioned by the international energy agency.
this is why, in this house, the president of the commission committed an additional eur 4 billion to climate finance.
glasgow also strengthened the global network of agencies that provide immediate relief and assistance to countries who already suffer from the consequences of the climate crisis.
the issue of loss and damage will grow in importance at future cops, and we should engage in all sincerity with those who already today suffer from climate—induced catastrophes.
if we really want to succeed at the next cop in sharm el-sheikh, we now have to work closely, especially with our sister continent of africa, in preparing this – on adaptation and on finance, on carbon sinks, on how to best have nature—based solutions, and on how to help them in their energy transition.
it seems like a technical matter, but it is of essential importance for the carbon markets to start to work because the essence of the global approach to decarbonisation is putting a price on carbon, and you have to be able to compare the way we do that for carbon markets to work well.
our climate diplomacy, supported by credible policies and commitments, our carefully nurtured climate dialogues with countries like japan, china and turkey, and our outreach to others like india, brazil and indonesia, have helped to push all major emitters to step up their ambition.
think, for example, of india, which committed to reach 500 gw in renewable energy by 2030. that is a massive, massive opportunity, also an economic opportunity, for european industry.
climate action knows no quick fixes.
but the climate crisis is accelerating and so should we.
this glass is more than half full, and i also rate the results of the glasgow climate conference as more than half full.
when we were in madrid two years ago, the eu was the only major economy that had committed to climate neutrality.
not only have developed countries like the united states, canada, australia, japan, but also a developing country like south africa, committed to be climate neutral by 2050. the meeting with the south african delegation was particularly impressive to me.
we still have the fact that the world's largest emitter, china, wants to increase its emissions by 2030. then, in the minds of our children and grandchildren, we will not be able to control climate change.
we need technology to do this, and to do this, we need to achieve climate change at the lowest possible cost.
so i thank the commission for putting so much emphasis on emissions trading in fit for 55. finally, if it is true that we are not yet at the target and that china has this irresponsibly bad target, then we need to continue to protect against carbon leakage, because we do not want to deindustrialize europe, but we want to decarbonize industry.
it has been with the green deal, with the climate law and it will be with the package of measures objective 55. but we don't want to stay here and now we're back to work to take another step forward.
we will fight for social conditionality to be in every report, in every piece of legislation, because we will not be able to change our habits if we are not also able to prevent the most vulnerable classes from paying the bill for the ecological transition.
i saw europe active in defending the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, i saw europe active in convincing china and the united states to do more, i saw europe active in its solidarity with the most vulnerable countries.
the second element is that all your post-glasgow and post-european climate law proposals must now be genuinely aligned with climate objectives.
we asked you in the european parliament, the renew group told you last time: we will not vote on a new list of gas projects if they are not aligned with the requirements of the green deal and climate neutrality.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was almost 30 years ago at the earth summit in rio that the un climate process was launched.
she alone came to glasgow with a significant uplift in her climate ambitions.
no quantified carbon absorption target.
and believe me, the most passionate are not the yellow vests, who, contrary to what we hear, are convinced of the climate and environmental emergency.
rather, they come mainly from capital holders who only support climate action if it does not affect their profits.
for the 26th time, we have all witnessed the great spectacle of the world climate conference.
in order to have a media-friendly debate on how we can save the climate of our planet, some participants flew to glasgow by private jet.
but who am i to say that mrs von der leyen, even on ridiculously short distances, is known to appreciate the advantages of this means of transport which is not very friendly to the climate.
a few countries are trying to save the world's climate in an unprecedented frenzy, by systematically ruining their economies, while the world's largest emitter, china, continues to have no intention of reducing its emissions.
i say it very clearly: we do not need a panic attack, we do not need the 100th climate conference, we do not need absurd xy-degree targets, but we need innovation, technical progress and, above all, prudence to reduce co2 emissions in the long term.
my party and i have always been committed to the most modern nuclear energy as a source of energy.
and so i very much welcome the fact that more and more countries in europe are coming to the understanding that we cannot do without them if we want to reduce our co2 emissions and at the same time ensure a reliable and affordable energy supply.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only more environmentally friendly but also more environmentally friendly.
those who question these results seem more concerned with challenging a model of market society, western society, than with committing to the fight against climate change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
europe, let us remember, emits only 8% of greenhouse gases.
it is obvious that the fight against climate change must involve industry and agriculture.
the agreement to reduce methane emissions and the explicit inclusion of coal in the commitments are good news, but as the un secretary-general has said, this is not enough.
it is foolhardy to have postponed funding of $100,000 a year for the green transition of developing countries until 2023. in fact, as the global inequality laboratory report explained, the carbon pollution map matches perfectly with the global economic inequalities map.
the richest 2% of the world's population emits almost 48% of global emissions, and the richest 1% produces 17% of the total, while the poorest half is responsible for only 12%.
i attended this cop with three hats: as a member of the industry committee, as a member of the development committee and as a member of the environment committee.
they have seen emissions trading as an effective tool, and china is the world leader in many areas of future technologies.
so i think that cooperation with china in environmental protection is worthwhile, that we should continue to cooperate closely and intensify our work.
and of course, it was important for development policy that there was a real focus on adaptation to climate change.
we have committed ourselves to investing 30% of our funds in environmental and climate action, and we must do so now.
the environmental policy measures are mentioned: methane, industrial and deforestation strategy are very important.
so let's look at the question of whether the recent climate summit in glasgow was a success.
but seriously, why should an economically successful nation also emulate the economic and energy policy nonsense from brussels?
i think it's a great step forward that for the first time the 1.5 degree global warming limit is explicitly mentioned in the final report.
and the efforts to water down the 'fit for 55' package show that the eu's public image as a climate pioneer is on thin ice.
and nowhere is this more apparent than in methane emissions.
the eu is proud to be the initiator of the global methane pact, which aims to reduce methane emissions by 30% by 2030. but the leaked bill doesn't even have a reduction target.
i am hereby calling on you to put your words into action and make sure that we are not just collecting data, but actually reducing methane emissions.
we've heard new long-term plans from the biggest carbon emitters, promises to end deforestation or reduce methane emissions.
but whether there is really more climate protection depends on concrete action.
the social question must be the driver of our climate ambition, not a lame excuse for less climate ambition.
only by expanding renewable energy, only by having alternative mobility, only by promoting energy efficiency measures, can all people really participate in this transformation.
this applies to the area of climate finance, but it also applies to the whole of deforestation, where i am very grateful for the commission's proposal: it is going in the right direction.
we have been at the forefront of these climate negotiations, and we cannot rest on our laurels.
after this climate conference, we have it in black and white: we are not reaching the climate targets of the paris agreement, not the 1.5 degrees and not the 2 degrees.
and the european union's climate targets are not enough.
now the world has to sit down, now we have to sit down and present new climate targets at the climate conference in a year's time, so that we don't become treaty-breakers.
we can do this, the instruments are on the table: an early phase-out of coal by 2030, a massive expansion of renewable energy, a rapid end to the combustion engine and the end of fossil subsidies.
i remember the climate emergency we declared two years ago.
the energy union was and is the main thrust from brussels to finally take the scepter of independent national action from the member states.
the original rationale of reducing the eu's energy dependence and ensuring security of supply is being distorted by the current political climate commitment to its opposite.
today, we're talking about the green deal, and the five goals are: decarbonisation, decarbonisation, decarbonisation, decarbonisation, and fifth, managing the resulting energy shortage.
the state of the energy union report addresses where our problems lie.
we need more renewables and more energy efficiency to end our dependence on fossil fuels and - as we are now realizing - the risk of price leaps.
i therefore welcome the commission's plan to help the renewable energy source with the greatest potential to make a breakthrough in europe through a solar strategy.
our energy cooperative - when i was not yet in politics - finally succeeded in installing solar panels in a rented house and providing electricity to the residents at a low cost, but we had regular correspondence with the grid operator and the main customs office.
it's 2021, and the climate crisis has arrived in europe.
citizens' money is fueling the climate crisis.
we need this money for transformation, for low-income people to be able to insulate their homes so they have to spend less on energy, for solar to be on every roof.
it creates jobs, it prevents energy poverty.
moreover, the area that is of great concern for us, the cap’s contribution to climate action, lacks a realistic way of estimating the direct payments made to farmers.
in a special report, eca has stressed the mismatch of eu money spent on biodiversity on farmland and the very poor performance of these measures.
false or incorrect reporting on the true climate-related spending is generally known as greenwashing.
it goes against the true goals of the eu green deal, nextgenerationeu and all that the eu is doing to improve the way we live and treat the environment.
and it is very clear that it is finally time to ratify this document, to ratify it as the eu, to ratify it by qualified majority, to waste no more time and to stand up very, very clearly on the side of women and on the side of men who are clearly fighting against violence against women.
all in all, the promise of the sustainable development goals to leave no one behind cannot be fulfilled without putting an end to violence against women and girls.
the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 14 december 2021, and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 15 december 2021.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr seán kelly on the implementation of the directive on the energy performance of buildings (2021/2077 (ini)) (a9-0321/2021).
show russia’s elite what freezing assets would actually mean, blocking access to the european market, financial banking limitations, energy and trade instruments and so forth.
in the long run, this means introducing disasters and climate causes as additional vague grounds for asylum.
on the one hand, it is desirable, and on the other hand, it is associated with exploitation, coercion and environmental destruction.
but that means that the kimberley process does not take into account the issues of exploitation and environmental degradation.
and if you buy diamonds and give them away for christmas, you don't know if it involves child labour, if it involves environmental destruction.
third, isn't it time to change the definition to include not just rebellion, but human rights in general and environmental protection?
building on this work, the commission intends to explore under global europe, relevant thematic programme options to continue eu support to regional approaches through the mano river union and to the central african republic, and in parallel as indicated in the commission work programme, the commission has launched the preparation of an initiative on sustainable corporate governance to foster long-term, sustainable and responsible corporate behaviour.
they want to know that a diamond is not bloodstained, that it is ethical, that it is not linked to environmental disasters, and that it is not the product of forced or child labor.
first of all – and many colleagues have mentioned this today – it does not guarantee that the diamonds sold in the eu are fully ethical because they might still be linked to human rights violations or environmental damage.
therefore, we support a revision of the current definition of conflict diamonds in order to include the social and environmental conflict-related dimensions of diamond production.
perhaps some people also know that 20 years ago the international community committed itself to stopping the trade in blood diamonds through initiatives such as the kimberley process, yet almost no one knows that today the international definition of blood diamonds covers only precious stones which directly finance wars, but does not apply to human rights violations, massive environmental damage, labour exploitation and especially child labour, which is so common in the mines of certain countries.
i announced the eu pledge of at least eur 2.5 billion to support nutrition efforts until 2024. we intend to address malnutrition holistically, including by supporting sustainable and resilient food systems, and by addressing the needs of the most vulnerable people, particularly in humanitarian crises.
the year of action also provided important impetus in tokyo for the final decade of the sustainable development goals: more investment in food services, health, ensuring the livelihoods of producers, and tackling malnutrition in fragile and conflict-affected areas.
and remarkably, there are two things that i want to highlight here: one is that this agreement reiterates that the pursuit of pure profit, without regard for the employees, creates businesses that are not sustainable.
and so it's worth looking at -- and there are many studies that show this -- that companies are more sustainable and better at coping with crises when they involve their employees.
we also want to make companies more sustainable.
when they talk about sustainability, they mean the sustainability of their jobs.
it says: 'employee participation' will, among other things, 'support the transition to a carbon-neutral, climate-neutral, resource-efficient [...] economy and gender equality'.
we need a policy for prosperity, for sustainability.
we’re jointly fighting climate change and investing in our digital future, investing all across the european union.
the serbian regime has widely opened its doors to chinese investment, but has no respect whatsoever for labour and environmental rights and, above all, human dignity.
other, but related, stories are the ongoing environmental protests.
the environmental protests in serbia are not just about the environment, nor about laws on the referendum.
we risk our credibility by allowing the practice of slave labour and environmental barbarism to take root in the middle of europe in an eu candidate country.