one is full of energy, cannot sit still, jumps first, thinks later.
we all have an interest in nurturing the obvious potential it has for our climate, our environment, and yes, on a grand scale, the future of the planet.
for how can we imagine a total ban on companies being allowed to destroy unsold goods if that is the only and most sustainable way of disposing of them?
you mention everything: climate, it's obviously an issue for equality, gender gaps across digital technology areas are an issue for equality, but in these 15 pages, they don't mention the most important issue, they forget.
especially because the eu's carbon trading system, ets, is being incorporated into the design of the cbam.
the cbam, as it is claimed, is therefore a better protection against carbon leakage and business flight out of the eu than the free ets allowances, that is santa claus!
and if that part is not voted on, it will create considerable uncertainty for european energy-intensive businesses, which will lead to less investment.
i have to say, madam president, the most effective way to promote and protect human rights and to promote compliance with environmental and social standards is for businesses and citizens to behave in a responsible, critical and responsible manner.
as we see, the scale of social damage resulting from the corona crisis is unprecedented, and now more than ever we need to show europeans the importance of strong cooperation and solidarity to face collective economic, social and environmental threats that we are facing.
a green energy transition should boost this radical change and prepare us for the world that is coming.
the fact that we in europe have an air pollution challenge is a fact.
some 400 000 europeans die each year as a result of air pollution.
we are well on our way, although we could go faster, also in view of the fact that air pollution, in addition to human lives, costs citizens lost earnings, companies lost production and means increased expenditure on health care.
the eu, with its policies and its many toolboxes, must continue to be the engine that drives the work towards a cleaner and healthier environment across europe.
therefore, focusing on air pollution is also a source of new business opportunities.
this report is therefore a clear initiative to set the direction for the eu's zero-pollution action plans within the framework of the european green deal.
this is how we can identify the most sustainable solutions for the eu and show the way to the rest of the world.
in the europe of the future, the major resources of our energy system will not be oil, coal and gas.
this of course requires a complete restructuring of the way we produce energy in europe.
we need to expand our offshore wind energy, build up large resources in offshore energy, so we can have green power.
we must also integrate our energy systems and therefore have the excavators to build our cables around europe that can connect our energy systems.
i have to say, madam president, energy - it is climate policy, it is environmental policy, it is industrial policy and it is certainly also independence policy.
so there are many opinions about energy, just as there are many types of energy.
hydrogen will be crucial in the future eu energy mix to enable the energy-intensive industries and the energy-intensive part of the transport sector in particular to become fossil-free.
we need to ensure that there are frameworks and conditions for investors and technologies to meet very soon and in projects that are large enough and cross-cutting enough to catalyze the established business models that are waiting to take over the market from either imported fossil energy or energy currently being spoiled by skewed market projections in the eu's energy union.
let us now use the eu hydrogen strategy to show the rest of the world how to create a logical, innovative, cost-effective and, above all, energy-efficient energy market.
we need to have as sustainable a fishery as possible.
unfortunately, the landing obligation today sometimes stands in the way of sustainable fishing.
they have the expertise, and they have an interest in making sure that our fisheries are sustainable and that the rules are set up in a way that makes sense.
remember that much of the fishing today is much more sustainable than it has been for a long time.
i was also disappointed by the lack of ingenuity to link policies for legal labour migration with sustainability efforts in developing countries, from where some of the legal labour may come, for example as guest workers for a period, after which they can return to their home countries with even more resources than they brought with them, which we can then use to actively help prevent illegal migration in the future.
today's topic, however, is the eu's alignment with the un's aarhus convention on access to information and democratic participation in decision-making processes on environmental policy.
this is good, because it is important to show respect for the backbone of smes, which are the ones who support and nourish the economic muscle that is the very prerequisite for us here in the eu to be ahead of everyone else in the rest of the world in protecting and improving the environment.
despite the fine words of the eu's 2020 biodiversity strategy, the trend over the last decade has been in the wrong direction.
we need a binding european biodiversity law that puts nature first, that commits us and future politicians to restoring it.
we need a european biodiversity council with the leading scientists to shout when someone tries to sneak black agricultural policy in through the back door disguised as nature conservation.
without bees and pollinators, we'll run out of food, we'll run out of trees and we'll run out of natural areas, we'll never meet our climate goals, we'll run out of natural resources if we don't get back to normal.
it is therefore good that the eu is working on strategies and stronger and cross-border cooperation for biodiversity.
the ppe therefore proposes amendments which ensure that hunters and fishermen, under controlled conditions, continue to have access to our nature, so that they can help us to bring biodiversity back to health.
it is a very important day for the citizens of the eu, for the climate and for the green transition.
today we are voting on the eu's climate law.
it provides a very good starting point for the eu to become climate neutral by 2050, and sets very ambitious targets for 2030. i was responsible for the opinion of the committee on agriculture.
it is very important to me that there is a link between the climate law, the land-for-food strategy and the methane strategy.
the climate law states that agriculture is part of the solution: to create new green energy sources through the use of residual waste for biogas.
developing the circular economy in europe, storing carbon in the soil and thereby significantly reducing emissions.
these things have been given an important place in the new climate law, and i am very proud of that.
agriculture has the solution, and farmers are ready to make their contribution to carbon neutral agricultural production by 2050.
i have to say, madam president, we have demonstrated, we have pressed, we have fought, and we have negotiated.
we need at least a 65 percent reduction in emissions by 2030. that's what the research shows it takes.
inadequate climate law will result in inadequate climate action.
there is no task more important for the eu than the climate.
this was the case before the corona crisis, it is still the case, and the latest un climate report underlines this with an ever-shorter target.
the eu received its first climate law this spring.
that is also fine, as long as you do not destroy the tools and unnecessarily drag out time, because there is no more important task for the eu than the climate.
free media ensures that the workshops of democracy are challenged, listened to, and that decisions are sustainable, robust and, not least, meaningful to those affected by them.
madam president, as a dane i find it essential to ensure environmental protection, sustainable development and reduction of geopolitical military tensions in the arctic.
i have to say, madam president, energy prices are rising.
the fact that the eu must get on with the task of achieving an energy union, that we must be self-sufficient in green and clean energy, is being emphasized with alarming brutality.
one of the most effective solutions is energy efficiency, because the best energy is the one we do not use and therefore do not have to pay for.
it's forcing down energy prices.
in addition, energy efficiency is also the most cost-effective tool to achieve the eu's climate goals.
energy poverty is also about the fear of losing your job and thus the ability to pay for fixed basic expenses.
here too, energy efficiency is the tool that has been proven to create more jobs and strengthen the eu's competitiveness.
there is therefore the potential for a major hat-trick in terms of more energy efficiency in the eu, and we should of course take advantage of this.
i have to say, madam president, rising energy prices, and in particular gas prices, are affecting consumers across europe.
we need to increase renewable energy because it is cheaper, and we need to increase energy efficiency.
every time we increase energy efficiency by one percent, gas imports fall by 2.6 percent.
for me, it has been crucial that the strategy be both sustainable and competitive.
i've fought for very ambitious targets for agricultural use of pesticides, fertilisers and antibiotics and we're going to halve food waste by 2030. the soil-to-table strategy should focus on all parts of the food chain.
it is therefore also good that the 'soil to table' strategy is now seriously introducing declarations of goods in the internal market which inform us about both health and sustainability.
it is absolutely crucial to ensuring the necessary climate action.
or we can choose to make a green and socially just transition, where those who are doing the climate renovations don't lose their lives.
we need to make sure that climate action and better occupational health and safety go hand in hand.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on the internal market for the good input they have given.
we're building offshore wind farms, even energy islands in the north sea, and offshore wind can compete with fossil energy, and in many cases, it can beat fossil energy on price.
but when you develop new technology, it requires support and help in the beginning, and that's why it's a long-term investment to support energy, sustainable energy, so that we can meet our climate commitments.
today, we need new technologies in particular, such as renewable hydrogen and carbon capture and storage.
renewable hydrogen, which allows us to fly and transport in a sustainable way, and carbon capture and storage, which allows us to reduce co2 emissions from, among other things, heavy industry.
i think it is reasonable that the commission and the commissioner are putting forward new rules on state aid for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
as rapporteur on the energy efficiency directive, i would say that it is also really important to support a major source of reducing our co2.
low carbon, hydrogen rather than renewable hydrogen.
don't fall into the trap of shutting ourselves down, locking ourselves into a fossil energy system that's going to cost us dearly in the long run.
it was historic when the un human rights council last week recognized the right to a healthy and sustainable environment as a fundamental right of all human beings.
all around us, the climate and biodiversity are rapidly collapsing.
there should be no doubt that human rights and environmental protection are inextricably linked.
in denmark, a right to a healthy environment could mean that everyone has a fundamental right to have their drinking water not contaminated.
the right to a healthy environment should be a human right for everyone.
the glasgow climate summit will hopefully result in far more and far better international agreements than the 2019 madrid summit.
the proposal is now in danger of losing the so-called green and business-friendly support of renew, and further to the left in the chamber, yes, i hear that the amendment and the good idea of a climate co2 label are not liked because they do not come from yourselves.
that is not how we are going to win the climate fight, so throw away the vanity and support amendment no 15. so the eu is proposing to the world that we join forces to develop a co2 labelling system that provides clear and credible information on the climate footprint of products.
this is the opportunity to raise our ambition, to do more to reduce co2 emissions.
at the current rate of progress, according to the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change, we will be heading for a temperature rise of over three degrees by the end of this century.
we know that every minute - every minute - according to the international monetary fund, nine million euros are given in aid to coal power, in aid to fossil energy.
in 2018, €50 billion was given to fossil energy in subsidies.
my mantra has been that we should reduce methane emissions, not production.
it will only increase the climate burden.
that is why we must focus on new technology, innovation, which can reduce methane emissions.
for example, new feed additives that can reduce methane emissions from cows.
in this way, agricultural residues can be used to produce renewable energy, green energy.
it's a win-win situation for farmers and for the climate.
the strategy emphasises that agriculture is part of the solution to the climate challenge.
at the same time, the agricultural reform is a major step towards a greener and more sustainable agriculture in europe.
we also need to cultivate biodiversity.
40% of the agricultural budget will go to environmental causes.
so we must have some national self-determination in relation to the future environmental measures in the agricultural sector.
unfortunately, cop26 shows that some countries in the world are treating the climate crisis as such a task.
russia and china will be climate neutral by 2060, india by 2070. but it is our actions over the next 10 years that will determine whether we are able to keep the temperature increases to a maximum of one and a half degrees celsius.
it's a world of floods, droughts, hundreds of millions of climate refugees.
we are imposing a climate tariff on those countries which do not act, and therefore we must spend the next period of time pressuring those countries which do not act.
countries around the world confirmed the 1.5°c target and promised climate plans by 2027. but what we need is to close the gap between the planned and the necessary reductions.
climate summits are truly the arena of small steps, and small steps were taken.
but what the climate, the scientists and the youth need is a tiger leap.
at climate summit after climate summit, world leaders have talked and talked, but little has happened.
we have a global responsibility to act on the climate crisis.
it's time to take climate action.
becoming energy-independent, increasing renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency are the main priorities, and you were spot on.
we have increased the renewable energy and, right now, the electricity production from renewables is larger than that from fossils – that’s great – but only by 1%.
also, when it comes to energy efficiency, we do not reach the goals that we have set.
we are negotiating the renewable energy directive (red) and the energy efficiency directive (eed) right now and in the coming months.
i can't believe we have bureaucratic fat people who can waste their time debating whether we should say "merry christmas" or "mr. christmas" or "mrs. christmas" or "man made christmas" or whatever.
many also live in cages that are too small and in an environment that is very far from their natural habitat.