the report proposes to extend the current list of 32 crimes or categories of crime that do not require double criminality control to include 10 new categories ranging from certain types of tax evasion, violence against women, web-specific crimes, hate crimes, acts of mass pollution, crimes against public order involving the grave threat or use of violence or against the constitutional integrity of states involving the use of violence, as well as crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
how can you be against expanding the list to include hate crimes, genocide, environmental crimes or the very crime against constitutional integrity?
the review of the trans-european transport network policy will be one of the cornerstones of the new green deal and will make it possible to update the network in terms of sustainability, digitalisation and safety.
we want to see more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail, inland waterways or motorways of the sea, prioritised and alternative fuels deployed effectively for all modes of transport.
but we must ensure that the infrastructure is of quality and that it is monitored for maintenance; that it is resilient and can withstand environmental shocks such as that of the storm filomena, which has caused severe damage to infrastructure and has left many villages - thousands of people in large parts of spain - isolated and uncommunicated.
the eu must be united in its approach to russia regarding its sanctions policy, but also in its other policy spheres, like energy policy for example.
our investment focuses on a strategic sector – telecommunications and energy – and these are priority areas for our green deal and the digital transformation.
so, as demonstrated during the ministerial conference in berlin, our regions fully agree on the need to defend multilateralism and will join forces to advance towards a greener, more sustainable development model.
dear members of the european parliament, working together with our transatlantic partners on environmental issues is especially important, given that latin america is home to 50% of the world’s biodiversity – and don’t forget the amazon rainforest is the major lung for our planet.
we also look ahead to the cop26 in 2021. we all need to step up our ambitions on climate issues, as we agreed also in berlin.
these ambitious treaties include political, cooperation, trade, and sustainable development aspects which will reinforce our ties and our shared defence of an international rules-based order, and from any point of view we will be better off with these association agreements than without them.
along with climate change, covid-19 has also emerged, which is having such an impact on both continents.
second, to step up our cooperation, now to fight the pandemic -- vaccines are a good example -- but also for a joint economic recovery, which takes into account climate change, gender equality, debt relief, inequality and also strengthening democracy.
we have to make them concrete, because the challenges we face are common: environmental challenges, sustainability challenges, human rights challenges.
in honduras, the harassments and attacks against environmental defenders continue, with european and american companies often directly or indirectly involved.
the guapinol environmental defenders who were finalists of the sakharov prize last year, have now spent more than 500 days in pre-trial detention for defending their water resources against a mining company.
the need to promote the green and digital transition was underlined, and today i would like to remind you that you cannot fight climate change while mines are being opened or large european power stations are allowed to enrich themselves with macro-projects, as we saw a few days ago in guatemala.
let us do everything possible to get it ratified by this parliament with additional environmental guarantees, in the style of the democratic clause introduced in 1991 at the initiative of argentina, considering this clause as an essential element in line with the green pact, which is perfectly compatible.
all the other issues have not disappeared with the crisis: inequality, migration, human rights violations, climate challenges, the neglect of many vulnerable groups, the limitation of civil and democratic space, threats, poverty, misinformation.
for this, sovereignty, inclusiveness, human rights, climate action, sustainability -- they have to go through this strategy.
the connectivity of spatial areas and the need to take account of the needs of people in a sustainable way and not increasing inequality.
hope and prospects, for example, for a global climate policy reset because they will rejoin the paris agreement.
it will require a really ambitious climate policy, like we have with the green deal.
if we turn a blind eye now, if we do not make reforms, if we do not invest this money well, european money will have been a great waste with serious consequences for europe.
madam president, mr prime minister, you have made climate the heart of your speech and the european agenda and, not surprisingly, you have not mentioned mercosur, because the free trade agreement on mercosur, because of soybeans, beef, bioethanol, is more than 25% deforestation and therefore contributes massively to climate change.
so, mr prime minister, since you want the agreement to be ratified, how will you justify to your portuguese compatriots the forthcoming forest fires caused by climate change?
madam president, prime minister, the cloud of key words that will identify the portuguese semester will be very similar to that which identified the german presidency: next generation eu, digital transition, climate emergency, but also pandemic, confinement, vaccines, economic crisis and unemployment.
we spaniards have high hopes that the presidency of a sister nation, portugal, will bring some common sense to this drift, strengthen the protection of the mediterranean axis and help to explain that the great diversity of our agricultural and livestock sector does not constitute a threat to the environment, but remains its greatest and best ally.
the spanish delegation shares these priorities and calls on the presidency to accelerate the transition to a more sustainable model, taking advantage of new technologies and promoting a fair recovery: investment must contribute to reducing inequalities, the wage gap, unemployment and ensuring decent housing for all.
we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind.
we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind.
we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind.
we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind.
we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind.
we need to emphasise more the social dimension within these recovery mechanisms, if we are to really achieve a socially sustainable europe that leaves no one behind.
finally, the energy renewal wave has to start by rehabilitating the homes of the most disadvantaged groups, and it is up to us as regulators to ensure that electricity suppliers adopt protection schemes to ensure the supply of energy to the most... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations.
if the axes of investment in the future are - as it seems - the digital and ecological transition, we must be there and we cannot be left behind.
we welcome the eu-china strategic agreement and hope that, in the face of the outbursts of some here, we can continue to work for a global order based on international law, the fight against climate change, peace and the sovereignty of peoples.
this is a mistake of democratic, economic, digital and energy sovereignty of europe.
for this to happen, we need a functioning market for high-quality recycling with a level playing field for recycled materials, better waste management systems and a science-based binding 2030 eu-level target for reducing the materials and consumption footprints, based on agreed indicators.
sustainable products need to become the norm on the eu market.
improving our circular economy will stimulate economic growth, create job opportunities, will help to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 by reducing co2 emissions, whilst at the same time not overusing the planet’s resources.
it is the answer to building a more competitive europe that is committed to sustainable growth and digitalisation and that supports its self-employed and its smes.
we will not allow populist governments to use them to waste money unchecked, creating client networks and awarding them at will.
the gestures have been of aggression towards europe and, instead of starting to think about our response, we waste a few days in fuelling a division which, i repeat, only benefits russia.
if one of the goals is to look at sustainability, i ask: which is more sustainable, rice imported from myanmar or rice produced in the european union?
that's putting energy into the wrong measure.
on the derivatives reform, the amendments are essentially about green energy, and how to make it easier to finance a new generation of renewable energy projects.
providers of renewable energy rely on a secure income stream and this is what the derivatives markets for energy achieve.
if we maintain the current low position limit at 25% per market participant, the nascent energy exchanges will never take off.
during this covid-19 crisis, energy prices have been volatile because of a more erratic pattern of energy demand.
it is essential to protect income for renewable energy suppliers, particularly when demand is so volatile.
to conclude, i would like to stress that the capital markets recovery package includes targeted measures to speed up the recovery from the covid-19 pandemic and help the financial ecosystem to recover as soon as possible.
nor is this the time, i believe, to discuss nuclear energy.
when we ask parliament for more money for humanitarian aid, it is precisely to protect the victims of these conflicts, which are adding to hunger and climate change.
when the european parliament calls for more budget for humanitarian aid, it is precisely to protect the victims of these conflicts, of hunger and of climate change.
mr president, climate change is the most complex challenge facing humanity.
one of the most important is the border adjustment mechanism which we are presenting today, with a lot of work by our colleagues in the committee on the environment and the other committees.
however, if these materials are produced outside the european union, they pay no cost for that carbon.
this puts our industries in a very difficult position, but above all it does our planet a disservice, because it only gets factories to close in europe and move elsewhere, with the same carbon cost, with the same effect on the planet, but with fewer jobs for europeans.
thanks to the border adjustment mechanism, any material will pay for emissions whatever it has to pay, whether it is produced inside or outside the european union.
commissioner gentiloni, the great majority of the european parliament is saying loud and clear that we want the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
the commission should take note of the strong preference in the parliament for a system based on emissions trading (ets), our willingness to cover all ets sectors, as well as final products, and the proposal of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for fiscal design to assess the carbon content of imports.
the european union has a more efficient and less carbon-intensive industry, largely thanks to climate policies, but we are suffering deindustrialisation in some sectors.
raising our ambition to meet our climate commitments must be accompanied by an effort in measures against carbon leakage, such as this border carbon adjustment: a level playing field, necessary both to extend our climate policies and to promote those standards outside the union, because the contributions to the paris agreement cannot come from just one side.
co2 emissions count in our single market; so must imports: whoever pollutes does not pay in europe and does not get a competitive cost advantage, on the contrary.
but its implementation will only be viable if we improve the current model of measures against carbon leakage by ensuring the protection of our industry and employment and avoiding harmful effects.
if border adjustment cannot guarantee this, we will not be helping either climate protection or our workers.
the green deal is a colossal social engineering monster to which vast sums of money will be diverted under the guise of climate alarmism.
the commission's idea of developing a carbon-related border adjustment mechanism that prevents the most serious competitive imbalances from being applied to the emitting industries makes sense.
but it makes no sense to abolish, as the report recommends, the various key instruments of the european emissions trading system, such as free allocation, all at once.
and now this european parliament is telling companies that they have to be active agents of the 2030 agenda and they are the ones who have to guarantee human rights, the fight against climate change and good governance in third countries and throughout the value chain.
through four pillars (sustainable infrastructure, research, innovation and digitalisation, smes and social investment and skills), it aims to mobilise almost €400 billion of investment in the eu, of which almost €26.2 billion is foreseen in the eu budget 2021-2027. in addition, investeu will have the capacity to support the capital of companies affected by the pandemic, so this investment support mechanism is crucial to foster economic recovery across the union and to boost quality employment, digitalisation, investment in sustainable infrastructure, innovation, research and development of strategic companies.
our group has worked to make investeu a strong instrument and we have championed social and environmental issues, with particular attention to sectors that particularly need support, such as tourism, culture and social infrastructure.
the european commission has addressed several meps from our environment committee, not only trying to condition the vote on a position that they should not understand as sufficiently green no matter how much they would like to, but has allowed themselves the luxury of labelling the fishing sector as a destructive industry, acting de facto as if it were a lobbyist for the most radical environmental ngos.
the european fisheries sector is the most regulated in the world and the one that makes the most efforts to ensure sustainability.
today in the atlantic, almost 100% of the catches landed come from stocks exploited at maximum sustainable yield.
this proposal offers the tools and flexibility needed to make further progress on environmental, but also economic and social sustainability, which is what the common fisheries policy is aiming at.
life has been able to continue thanks to the care, the protection, of the workers who have been on the front line, mainly in the most precarious sectors: the health, the agro-food, transporters, cashiers, residences ... the pandemic has taught us that only with strong public services can we meet such challenges, but it has also exposed an unsustainable system, an interdependence of material production, the consequences that the model currently has for our environment.
yes, but it is not enough: the recovery and resilience mechanism needs to protect life and people and generate a sustainable future, not to entrench an outdated model.
only in the key of equality, social, economic, climate and territorial justice, can we tackle the future: nothing will change if nothing changes.
so let's talk more about using the recovery and resilience funds to lay the groundwork, to transform this very unfair and very unequal social reality; from sustainability and the commitment to digitalization and competitiveness, yes, of course, but with the goal of leaving no one behind, not with the goal of going back to 2020. local institutions play a key role in this process, and all citizens must also be guaranteed a minimum income to ensure social sustainability.
we need to be able to design a roadmap in which social rights and goals and equity are as central to our governance and economic policy as environmental goals are beginning to be.
that is why we insist in this report that equity and social rights must be given the same importance as macroeconomic or environmental objectives.
the foreseeable national reforms must be based on solidarity, integration and social justice, with the aim of creating quality employment in all territories, to ensure sustainable growth as far as possible, moving towards a new social organisation of care so that it does not primarily rely on unpaid and unrecognised work by women.
i firmly believe that upholding the centrality of social in economic policy and governance is perfectly compatible with the competitiveness of the european economy, which will thus be more sustainable and resilient.
secondly, we need a golden rule for certain investments: there will be no ecological transition and no fight against climate change without certain investments, and we need that golden rule.
but at the same time we must ensure the sustainability of finance in the medium term and we must make it sustainable.
we do that to deliver on the targets of social and environmental development within europe.
encourage more investment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises; to prevent the environmental transition process from undermining the competitiveness of our economic and productive system; finally, involve regions and local authorities to create synergies between national recovery plans and cohesion policy plans, especially in territories that were already suffering from structural delays before the pandemic.
it is therefore time to get out of this and invent a new form of economic governance based on cohesion criteria, social and climate criteria and it is a new time, an unexpected opportunity that may open up for a reform of the european semester.
madam president, the european parliament has not taken a decision on the union's annual strategy for sustainable growth for two years, and has not reached agreement on the important instrument for coordinating economic and budgetary policies, the european semester, for two years.
against the dullness of the usual austericides, it is wise to bet on adequate wages, parental co-responsibility, ending the gender gap, youth employment, the right to housing, protection of the most vulnerable groups and the fight against energy poverty.
and you propose, in this plan, to give the hot potato to the trade unions to update the european framework agreement on telework of 2002, when the commission would have to take up the issue and define a european legislative framework agreement to determine telework, because there are implications for productive, labour, economic relations; there are also policies, inclusion, mobility, environment, equality, depopulation, cross-border... i therefore ask you, commissioner, to join the european presidency and use the opportunity of porto to propose a european legislative framework on teleworking which provides a comprehensive european framework, a key element for the present and future of not only industrial relations but also economic, social, environmental, depopulation, crossborder and inclusion relations.
the proposed social indicators are a start, but social rights must be integrated into the same governance structure as economic and ecological objectives to ensure their proper applicability.
the proposed social indicators are a start, but social rights must be integrated into the same governance structure as economic and ecological objectives to ensure their proper applicability.
they are at the forefront of fighting the social consequences of the pandemic, but they are also at the forefront of a transformation towards a more digital and sustainable society.
we can see, for instance, in my city, in barcelona, where the urban transformation, the mobility transformation is really leading the way towards a carbon neutral economy.
but now is the time for member states to go ahead and table their own plans, within the framework set for the proper use and exploitation of grants, for real support for public health, workers, young people, vulnerable groups, culture, small and mediumsized enterprises, the environment and many others.
european funds are the answer to building a more competitive and industrialised europe that is committed to a sustainable and digitalised economy, that strengthens our health systems, that invests in education and research, that supports its smes and the self-employed and helps all families.
and we will not allow those who leave governance to radical forces to manage funds without control - as is happening in spain - to waste, creating a new episode of the well-known plan e, creating client networks or ignoring the autonomous communities, the municipalities and society.
i call for greater attention and commitment to defending agriculture, livestock and all those activities which, like hunting, contribute to the sustainability of our rural environment.
the continuing abandonment of farms because of low profitability and the absence of generational change should make us think about how to prevent certain policies, under the umbrella of the all-powerful green pact, from destroying the socioeconomic fabric of rural areas by hiding behind a false and hypocritical protection of the environment.
this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas.
this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas.
this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas.
this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas.
i am, however, wary of the possibility of raising the union's own resources in the future through the new carbon tariff mechanism.
if we were to impose carbon duties on imports from third countries, we would impose difficulties on many of our own export companies and the duties would provoke a very strong reaction from our trading partners.
these changes make for a safer european securitisation market, but financial markets shouldn’t just be safe: they should also help us to move forward towards a sustainable and fair economy and to promote sustainability we mandated the european banking authority to develop rules for sustainable securitisation, which should be put in place when the larger review of the regulation comes into question at the end of the year.
to conclude, with this text we can achieve the best of three worlds: a stronger economic recovery; good checks on potential risks; and a contribution to a fair and sustainable economy.
we have laid the foundation for the establishment of a sustainable securitization label in response to the climate challenges.
securitisation could also help banks manage a possible increase in non-performing assets and loans and provide sustainable funding to the economy in a post—pandemic environment.
on the one hand, we need european and national funding to deliver on the new european strategy for sustainable and intelligent mobility.
at the same time, we are witnessing the importance of a resilient, sustainable trans-european transport network to ensure the continuous and efficient distribution of vaccines.
our infrastructures must be able to cope with future supply chain pressures, environmental shocks and also adapt to technological advances.
in this house, where we are voting on the european strategy for sustainable tourism, we are insisting once again on having a specific budget for the sector and moving towards a genuine european tourism policy.
it will define the conditions for a fair data economy which will lead to better services, sustainable growth and quality jobs.
data strategy must support and contribute to the sustainability of the green deal and union climate targets, as well as the resilient recovery of the union’s economy and social cohesion.
parliament insists that data governance must be built on a decentralised data operating environment that will support the emergence of interoperable and secure data ecosystems in various sectors.
on the climate, the digital sector has a significant potential to contribute to the reduction of emissions.
we call for modern energy efficient solutions fit for our climate goals.
on working life, we call in this strategy on the social partners to explore the potential of digitalisation, data and ai for increasing sustainable productivity while respecting workers’ rights.
data is the oil of our time, data is crucial for economic growth, for sustainability and for innovation and not least for job creation in europe.
with the european data strategy, our aim is to create a true single market for data, where data flows across sectors and member states, and where high quality data is available for innovation and value creation, while minimising the environmental footprint and ensuring the protection of personal data.
data is at the heart of the digital transformation; it brings huge improvements for european citizens and will contribute to sustainable growth with high-quality jobs.
a key element of the new programme is that at least 35% of the total budget will be allocated to support the european union’s climate objectives.
the instrument for small and medium—sized enterprises is a strength, and new instruments, such as european innovation council emissions, will increase the competitiveness of the european union and will produce tangible results for all european citizens.
and it's not a trivial matter: soil is a fundamental element for climate action and for life in our territories.
the depletion of our soils globally is one of the most worrying and least understood crises of the current climate emergency.
so far, measures to protect soil have been woefully inadequate, and we urgently need a binding legal framework to protect soil and ensure its sustainable use.
soil - the earth - is much more than a natural resource: it is a complex, living ecosystem that plays a key role in regulating climate.
it is one of the best tools for tackling climate change, for adaptation and mitigation.
it is not the same for large farms - the macropark - to opt, as many farmers and livestock farmers do, for sustainable farming in terms of health, the environment and society.
it is the link between the climate fight and sustainable territorial and economic development.
we are waiting for a proposal for a legal framework that protects the soil, that defines it as what it is: a common good, the source of life for our peoples, our agriculture and livestock, and an essential tool in the fight against climate change.
i take this opportunity to remind this house of what the citizens are telling us in the streets: the climate law, today, is not up to the story.
we cannot wait 30 years to achieve climate neutrality.
the high climate ambition of the agreement and the commitments to not back down on labour and social rights are two elements we welcome.
it talks about maintaining existing environmental standards and yet maintains the uk's presence in euratom.
in the previous plenary session, we approved the european strategy for sustainable tourism, demonstrating once again the commitment of this house to the sector; a strategy which should be the roadmap to reactivate the sector and accompany it in the necessary ecological and digital transition it is facing.
the national recovery plans will provide a definitive impetus to the sustainable and safe recovery of the sector.
this programme should also help us to be more effective in the great battle of our time: the fight against climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
governments need to invest to sustain the recovery and to make the transition towards a sustainable economy, and that requires resources to finance.
that would bring in more than eur 100 billion for the european union to invest in education, digital infrastructure, and, of course, sustainable energy.
let us not waste this pivotal moment, let us not waste this moment of a breakthrough.
recent months have seen massacres of civilians, a deterioration in the humanitarian situation of local communities in some regions, violence against ex-combatants committed to peace, against social leaders, human rights and environmental defenders, with a particular incidence on women, indigenous and afro-descendant people.
socio—economic development of the territories is crucial for sustainable peace.
from europe, we will continue working with colombia in this and all other areas of our relationship, ranging from political dialogue and cooperation in security and defence to trade and sustainable development, biodiversity and climate change.
at the same time, we do not want to forget today - and we strongly condemn them - the murders of social and environmental leaders and former combatants in recent years, a situation which has worsened especially in recent times.
europe wants to continue to walk hand in hand with the colombian people in the implementation of these peace agreements and wants to continue to walk with colombia, as a partner in the region, to work for these peace agreements and on many other issues: the fight against climate change, multilateralism, digitalisation... we're ready, let's not waste this opportunity.
madam president, journalists david beriain and roberto fraile have been killed in burkina faso, along with environmental activist rory young, for pursuing the truth.
but we also have to say loud and clear that there are situations that concern us, in particular the climate of increasing violence in which the peace agreement is being implemented, with record numbers of human rights and environmental defenders being killed in recent months.
we in the greens/efa group have tried to improve the joint resolution by adding points that are important to us, such as the need to better protect human rights and environmental defenders, indigenous leaders and former combatants committed to peace, and the need to advance gender policies and programmes that protect and recognise the role of women in peacebuilding.
peace requires not only efforts at the political, judicial and security levels, but also at the economic level, to implement, for example, rural development plans, which also have an important ecological and sustainability and inclusion component.
i think it is fair to highlight this environmental commitment of colombia in a chamber so aware of the climate threat.
but colombia, despite the difficulties, is no longer in the daily news because of terrorism or drug trafficking, but because it leads the region in its commitment to the environment or for setting a world example in refugee management, granting almost two million venezuelan refugees temporary protection status.
mr. president, colombia faces multiple challenges: the drug trafficking and illegal gold mining mafias, both with the support of venezuela; the illegal mining concentrated in gold, which negatively impacts the environment; the migration crisis, with the arrival of almost two million venezuelans fleeing hunger, which affects security, education, work, housing and health; and, finally, covid-19.
former combatants are being killed, indigenous defenders are being killed, environmental defenders are being killed... finally, this has to end, because there is an indispensable premise for a peace agreement, which is that one of the parties does not disappear.
five years after the peace agreement, we are alarmed by the attacks and deaths of human rights and environmental defenders, especially in the cauca region, where there are conflicts over land and water projects, such as the ituango project.
the protection of human rights and environmental defenders must be strengthened.
we started the year by declaring 2021 as the european year of rail and this week, with this agreement, we are taking a step forward to further democratize rail travel and increase its attractiveness: more rights for people with disabilities or reduced mobility, who are guaranteed an assistance service with a shorter notice period; more rights for all travellers who suffer delays or cancellations, who will be offered alternative routes, reimbursement and assistance for accommodation when necessary; a clear commitment to sustainable mobility, as there will be more space for bicycles, which we hope will also boost more sustainable tourism alternatives; and an obligation for companies to increase their combined ticket offer, which will give confidence and encourage travellers.
but we must continue to work to improve this whole ecosystem, so that there is total coordination between them and so avoid that a single euro is lost.
finally, we can send two powerful messages: that what is happening in latin america is a priority for the european parliament and that the region as a whole must see the european institutions as a respectful partner who wants to strengthen, reinforce and deepen the common mechanisms of cooperation, collaboration and governance; a partner and strategic ally with whom to jointly face the geopolitical, social, economic, environmental and also health challenges of the future.
vulnerable groups including women, girls, the elderly, minorities and indigenous peoples have been hit the hardest by the progress of the pandemic, threatening the progress made in recent years in the field of health and the sustainable development goals.
indeed, the priorities that you have identified are in line with those that guide our actions: social inclusion, the fight against inequalities, sustainable economic recovery, governance, security, migration and regional integration, including of course the green and the digital transformations.
we have just agreed on the european climate law with objectives that bring us closer to the paris agreement: these two strategies, for the integration of the energy system and for hydrogen, are laying the foundations for its implementation.
the urgency of action calls for exploiting the synergies of all energy vectors, involving sectors and consumers, and doing so in tandem with digitalisation.
with the integration of the energy system we propose greater electrification based on renewable energies and improved interconnection of the grids.
there are a lot of expectations with hydrogen, but let's be clear: the smaller its carbon footprint, the more sustainable and affordable it will be.
the european commitment must be to green hydrogen, produced from renewable sources, and this is necessary as we will clarify the colour question with the commission.
let's not forget that we're moving into a new green economy with all its industrial opportunities: storage, mobility, renewables... let's also do it in a sustainable, circular way, respecting ecosystems.
we need to revise the efficiency and renewable legislation on the way to 50% by 2030, which is our decarbonisation target: let's not take steps backwards.
madam president, commissioner, in asturias - my region - the closure of coal mines and thermal power stations has forced many young people to leave areas that are being emptied out for lack of opportunities, the same situation as many other regions in spain and in europe, committed to achieving a greener and more sustainable future.
to that end, europe offers us the just transition fund, a fund to attract innovative projects and to help industries and smes invest in cleaner processes, renewable energy and the circular economy; and above all, it must be a fund for people, to create new green jobs and train the workers affected by this transition, so that they can acquire the skills they need for the jobs of the future.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the desire to move towards an economy that is consistent with the union's climate objectives, we cannot afford to ignore the enormous effort that will have to be made to achieve this: the territories most affected by their dependence on fossil fuels must move towards this new model with all the support and guarantees that it is indeed a truly fair transition, without overlooking the economic and social reality of the societies involved in this great change.
countless opportunities are opening up for new productive investments linked to energy efficiency, digitalisation, innovation, smart mobility and other new, more sustainable energy sectors, and ultimately new forms of production and growth that promote an economy committed to the future of the planet and future generations.
the terrible pandemic we're living through has paralyzed almost everything, but not climate change.
the world bank, for example, estimates that more than 143 million people will be displaced by climate by 2050. first of all, i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs who have taken part and improved the text - frances fitzgerald, catherine chabaud, beata kempa and miguel urbán - and also the rapporteur for the libe committee, saskia bricmont, and those from the envi and femm committees, since i understand that this report is not as ambitious as we would have liked, but it is the best that can be done to provide a minimum framework for the protection of people who do not have it today.
we have been debating in this parliament for some time about how we are making progress in protecting the environment and how we are becoming more resilient to climate change.
we have a great green deal with important laws like climate, but it is urgent to put the most vulnerable people in developing countries on the agenda.
we must address climate change as a cause of migration and as a phenomenon that directly or indirectly threatens human rights, including the right to housing, water, sanitation or food.
we are saying in this report that there is a direct link between the effects of climate change and migration, that there are longer and more widespread crises because of climate change.
so we are talking about climate justice.
the countries that have contributed the least to global warming are the ones that are most exposed to its suffering, the ones that are least prepared to mitigate its impact.
this report proposes a comprehensive strategy and we ask the commission to make a concrete communication which includes, on the one hand, a climate policy to increase international funding, compensation for damage; in short, to strengthen the warsaw mechanism, as demanded by the developing countries at the last cop 25 in madrid; to increase financial support for disaster prevention and preparedness, in accordance with the sendai framework agreements, particularly in the small island states on the verge of disappearing, such as kiribati.
second, a development and humanitarian aid policy to address geographic vulnerabilities, such as housing location in risk areas, or livelihood bases, such as crop loss from drought or sea rise, by promoting local sustainable agriculture and food security initiatives.
addressing personal vulnerabilities, for example through gender-sensitive climate actions to design and implement adaptation programmes.
we call for a 'nexus' approach to be implemented that bridges emergency responses and long-term objectives to address the impact on people and implement sustainable solutions.
we call for the protection of existing legal mechanisms to be extended to ensure the rights of people who are forced to move internally or across borders, building on the nansen initiative for the protection of displaced persons; for the risk to life threatened by climate change to be explicitly included among the eligibility criteria for humanitarian protection, following the resolution of the un human rights committee in the case of teitiota, as stated by unhcr itself.
the star proposal is a climate visa, a humanitarian visa as a temporary protection measure to ensure legal and safe migration routes for people in need of protection because they are victims of disasters.
we've made commitments in the ndici, in the new neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument, like allocating 40 percent of the funds to climate action, but now we have to plan, we have to land with concrete measures through programming and continue to count on middle-income countries.
in future, ladies and gentlemen, judicial decisions on climate and non-deportation will not be an anecdotal fact.
i therefore urge you to vote in favour of this report and to avoid amendments which deny the link between climate and migration.
madam president, madam vice-president, european industry represents more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon-emitting sectors.
yesterday we discussed two important strategies for transforming the energy system and moving towards climate neutrality, the strategies for the integration of the energy system and for hydrogen; that is the way forward: moving towards decarbonisation, but doing so on a level playing field and with social justice.
european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors.
however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors.
however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors.
however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors.
however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
the future of europe is not being played out in online debates about federalism and climate change; the future of europe is being played out today in the streets of ceuta with the spanish army deployed.
that there is no police force, no political decision, no wall that can stop the human will to survive, to save themselves from misery, from war, from the consequences of climate change.
but we have to realise that even though the tragedies are at sea, sustainable solutions lie on dry land.
we need sustainable solutions.
we need a sustainable solution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we have all tried - and i have done so as rapporteur - to have an objective attitude, an attitude which will allow us to move forward in relations, in an environment which has not been easy and, moreover, by saying the same thing here in this gallery as we say in turkey.
mr president, with all due respect and affection to the rapporteur, and with all due affection to all those who have been involved in the creation of this report on the effects of climate change on human rights and the role of environmental defenders, it turns out that as the planet is being destroyed in a hurry and some are suffering more than others, the legal, legal, economic, national and scientific frameworks must be destroyed to create a new reality from an absolute fiction.
in hungary, by improving tax morale, making tax avoidance impossible, reducing taxes on labour and creating a business-friendly environment, we have achieved an increase in tax collections.
in the same way, when we talk about the cultural and audiovisual sector, the implications of the use of these techniques, the change in the ecosystem, can be so great that we need to make a more specific second reading in this sector, and that is what this report also requires in some way, and this is an aspect i want to emphasize.
we must say no: no to more obligations and burdens on our companies and workers, no to our companies and workers being prohibited from producing what we then import from china or morocco without meeting the same environmental requirements as we demand of our producers, but yes to preserving our natural heritage of invasive species, yes to protecting the wealth of our rivers and seas by allowing our fishermen to do what they have done for centuries, yes to boosting farming and livestock farming to achieve food sovereignty, yes to the traditional way of life of the rural communities of europe.
environmental crime should be one of the priorities of the union, as it is a transnational phenomenon with very long-term effects, affecting all citizens.
it is clear that the existing legislation on environmental crime is too lax and its enforcement is even more lax.
and also to ensure, through effective and transparent monitoring, that companies comply with the regulations to prevent further cases like, for example, the one at the zaldibar landfill in the basque country, where, in addition to the environmental crime, two people lost their lives.
or the case of lindane pollution, also in the basque country, and in many other places in the union; a persistent problem, despite being banned in 2008. two examples from the local area highlight the urgent need for action in this area.
as regards the personal sphere, i strongly support granting access to information and environmental justice to other members of the public, i.e.
citizens, as required by the aarhus convention, and not just environmental ngos, as the commission proposal provided.
i therefore thank the rapporteurs for their work and ask the rapporteur and the alternative rapporteurs to be firm in their negotiations with the commission and the council, because this convention is the best, if not the only, almost formula we have for citizens to have the strength and the conditions to defend the environment.
i regret that the resistance of some of us in this house is preventing us from going further, especially as global warming will unfortunately be conducive to the repetition of this type of event.
and i want to end with a new thank you to the spanish and european agricultural sector for all the great work they are doing despite the pandemic, despite the tariffs and despite the climate situation.
so, commissioner, i would like to emphasize once again that we need an agricultural policy tailored to the farmer, that innovates and invests, that supports young farmers and that really supports them in the fight against climate change.
this is not sustainable.
farmers are the first to help curb climate change, but they are also the first to suffer its most serious consequences.
these extreme events, like the one we're dealing with today, are going to be less isolated and more frequent as a result of climate change.
the european commission must take concrete and extraordinary measures to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change.
i would also like to ask the european commission to create a specific fund for climate aid.
furthermore, we know that they have suffered particularly during the pandemic and therefore we call on the eu to update the sme strategy in line with the new circumstances, as has already been done with the industrial strategy, and to adopt an action plan for smes to accompany them in the transition to a digital and sustainable future, strengthening capacity building and reducing the administrative burden as much as possible, without affecting workers' rights, health standards or environmental protection.
they are small and very small enterprises, and therefore need much less burden in terms of legislative obstacles and much more support, specialised programmes, tailor-made financial instruments, which will be able to boost their digital and energy development, the creation of clusters of similar smes for joint efforts, for joint administrative and accounting support.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a long journey we are finally debating the report on the commission's biodiversity strategy.
and to all the technical teams in the groups and the secretariat of the committee on the environment, and to comrades mary and sonia, who have done a spectacular job.
this report, ladies and gentlemen, is a fairly balanced text, fairly negotiated, fairly agreed, and i therefore ask that we support this text as it stands, as it has come out, with a very large majority in favour, from the committee on the environment.
look, seven ideas that we've incorporated: the creation of a law on biodiversity.
if we have a european climate law (we will pass it at the next plenary session, in brussels this time), why can't we have a law on biodiversity?
a law that makes the objectives binding, that they are mandatory and that also sets us deadlines for the year 2050, but with intermediate steps, for example, in the year 2030. so, a law on biodiversity.
there is a planetary crisis, not just a climate crisis, and the planetary crisis is a climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis.
that is why we are calling for a long-term eu action plan on climate and biodiversity.
right to a healthy environment.
i do not know if you have noticed this, but there is no fundamental right to a healthy environment.
and i think it's appropriate to prioritize the protectionist, conservationist, sustainable vision over more forestry, more industrial management.
and i think that is the right view in a biodiversity strategy, in a report from this house, the european parliament, which is a world pioneer institution in environmental preservation.
and so i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to look at this debate, to study the amendments carefully and to vote against and to support the report that has come out of the committee on the environment.
and that is why we say to all these sectors, from the european parliament, that we understand them and that we will support them, that a transition must be made, but that the transition must be sustainable and also social.
mr president, we are all united in the quest to preserve and increase biodiversity in the european union, but i do not think that the best way to achieve this is through unrealistic objectives, unjustified attacks on the cap or a total lack of recognition and empathy for farmers, herders or hunters, who, with their respective activities, are guardians of biodiversity.
the biggest threat to biodiversity is the abandonment of farmland and depopulation of the countryside because agriculture is not profitable.
but also in the face of setbacks like environmental issues, health issues, and so on.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the second is the cbam, the carbon border adjustment mechanism, that is going to force companies that move their plants outside of the european union to have to pay when they export their goods into europe.
in this regard, the interinstitutional agreement reached at the end of 2020 established the own resources roadmap including which new own resources are introduced and their timetable: an own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste which entered into force on 1 january this year, a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a digital tax and a european emissions trading system which are expected to be presented by the commission this month and should be introduced by 1 january 2023. the purpose of the plenary debate at this part-session was to keep up the pressure on the commission to implement the agreed own resources roadmap.
madam president, today, 8 june, world oceans day, we must remember the role of the oceans in the fight against climate change, as a buffer against global warming, and fisheries as a sustainable element that also helps to maintain the oceans.
it is true that climate change has made fishermen victims of global warming, and it is also true that much of the pollution that our oceans suffer is produced on land, more than 80%.
so we must pursue the sustainability of fisheries, as we do in europe, with that maximum sustainable yield and by applying tacs and quotas, the landing obligation, with the most regulated fisheries in the world, but taking into account that our fishermen also provide us with food.
healthy food and also respectful of the planet if done in a sustainable way.
fishing that is harmful to the planet and the oceans is illegal fishing; sustainable fishing respects our oceans.
we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies.
we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies.
we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies.
the social summit in porto therefore represents a turning point, a great opportunity, the starting point for a more social, more inclusive and more sustainable recovery, putting people before gdp and using the european semester to implement reforms to build a strong social network.
the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition.
the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition.
the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition.
the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition.
the socialists have been the main precursors of the holding of this summit, which is undoubtedly a new starting point for europe: putting the well-being of people at the forefront by meeting social objectives by 2030, including social indicators for the first time within the european semester, and giving social objectives the same importance as green and digital ones for a just and socially sustainable transition.
so any hint of doubt is going to make it easier for cyberattacks to intrude into our lives, as we are seeing every day in telecommunications networks, in industrial networks, in energy distribution networks, even in the self-driving car, in our transportation.
the same one, by the way, that takes the kids away from the foster care environment.
the way we tackle, for example, climate change, improve health care or tackle digital transformation must also have a woman's voice.
without women in science, there is no sustainable or inclusive future.
unfortunately, this is a phenomenon we see more and more often in this parliament, and especially when we talk about environmental and animal welfare issues.
madam president, madam commissioner, we started this week with a strategy on unbalanced and harmful biodiversity for sectors such as agriculture or fisheries, and it is quite possible that it will end with the adoption of a resolution taking over the discourse of animal welfare ngos by asking the commission to legislate on a potential ban on the cage-farming of animals.
we could say, without being wrong, that we eat suffering, but, beyond that, we eat exploitation of labour, we devour ecosystems and we feed on a model that is responsible for a large part of co2 emissions.
and that, paradoxically, this affects our health, because the loss of biodiversity and the use of hormones, pesticides and medicines makes us more vulnerable to the viruses that are generated by this same atrocious production system.
i want to reassure you that the commission pays due attention to sustainability, and that we want to provide clarity to all those involved as soon as possible.
morocco is historically, and especially in the last decades, a strong eu partner in many important fields like migration – in the last years, morocco prevented around half a million people coming into the european union – human trafficking, security, exchange of relevant information with member states, counter—terrorism, trade, economy, energy, etc.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
but at least with these rules, a social-ecological, inclusive transformation of our economy and way of life is more feasible than ever before.
the financial allocation thus comes with a number of conditions regarding respect for the rule of law, the environment and the principles of inclusiveness and equality.
cohesion policy is a central element for reducing disparities between member states and for the sustainable development of european countries.
supercomputers are crucial to our competitiveness and leadership in key areas like health or climate change.
supercomputers, with their extremely high computing capacity, enable technologies such as artificial intelligence, data analysis and cybersecurity to harness the enormous potential of the big data economy and lead to innovations in important areas such as health or climate change.
this climate neutrality we seek implies an industrial revolution.
we cannot move on gdp or emissions reductions alone.
climate ambition, moreover, is not at odds with economic progress.
we need to work on renewables, advance energy efficiency, develop taxonomy.
i call on everyone to act together against the climate emergency in a robust way to save our planet.
madam president, this european climate law is insufficient in form and content.
good, because you can't move forward in ecological transition and give a forceful response to climate change if you allow twenty-seven different speeds.
some states start the way by adopting laws against climate change, like spain, but other states can postpone it for another thirty years.
climate change is the greatest threat to our lives today, to the lives of future generations, to biodiversity and also to our production systems.
i hope that this commission and the member states will devote half the effort they are now spending to cleaning up the face of the big polluting companies to an ambitious and fair environmental policy.
it consolidates this parliament as the global institution of reference in the fight against climate change.
welcome to clean energy and renewable energy.
and look, mr vice-president, several colleagues have already said this to you: there is the 'fit for 55%' package, the plan for the restoration of nature; i would like the commission to present binding and ambitious targets for carbon sinks in that restoration plan.
i believe there is no other way to avoid catastrophic global warming, and this is an obligation that until now was moral and political, but it is also legal.
and finally, fifth, today we finally passed the climate bill.
but, mr timmermans, there has to be another law, the european law for the protection of biodiversity.
we set the following three absolute conditions for a high-quality service: the capacity and expertise to build sustainable partnerships, the coordination between the different national and regional players, and a corporate culture driven by the search for innovative investments that support growth.
its newly acquired role as the eu’s climate bank makes sense.
so funding strategies must be adapted to fit the geography, not least for projects related to transport and energy.
the committees’ reports testify that, overall, the eib is on a very good path, in particular as a front-runner on climate action and as a role model for other international financial institutions in their quest to become paris-aligned.
and this is why i insist, violently, that we need not, that we must not take innovation, climate and development apart, it all belongs together.
and nobody should hide behind the virus when it comes to these necessary activities in the field of innovation, climate and development.
on transparency, mr eickhout referred to transparency and also to intermediated lending, you will know that we not only review our transparency policy but we also look at the review of our environmental and social standards.
so we are reviewing our environmental and social sustainability framework, and following the calls from the european parliament, as part of the review, the eib group will propose a new standard for intermediate finance to ensure the highest level of integrity and compliance of the financial intermediaries and their projects.
this is why, to be quite clear, i believe that we should not reduce but expand our development business, particularly in the context of climate, innovation and development, and therefore we should organise ourselves better – in what form we can discuss.
there would have been plenty of time to find a good, sustainable solution to the legal challenges around scanning private communications on the internet.
mr president, the energy transition is necessary, so we must switch to clean energy from wind turbines, among other things.
to what extent is marine biodiversity affected by the construction, operation and demolition of wind turbines?
the report stresses that offshore wind farms should only be built if negative environmental and ecological, as well as economic, socioeconomic and socio-cultural effects on fishermen and aquaculture producers, are excluded.
– madam president, the commission welcomes the report by the committee on fisheries (pech) on the impact on fisheries of offshore windfarms and other renewable energy systems.
this report puts a much—needed emphasis on environmental considerations, the rational use of space and the involvement of all sea users.
this is very much in the spirit of our new approach to a sustainable blue economy.
under the european green deal, the european union is committed to becoming climate neutral by 2050 in order to mitigate the effects of climate change and related biodiversity loss.
sustainably-sourced and circular renewable energy is essential to reaching this target.
offshore wind energy needs to be developed in line with the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2030 and the circular economy action plan.
the main goal of maritime special planning is to ensure access to maritime space for the different sea users and to facilitate the coexistence and synergies between those users, while safeguarding the marine environment.
therefore, one of the actions under the new sustainable blue economy approach will be the creation of a blue forum for all users of the sea.
in the blue forum, a dialogue will be coordinated between stakeholders from the fisheries, aquaculture, shipping, tourism and energy sectors, as well as scientists.
all offshore renewable energy developments must fully comply with european union environmental legislation, notably going through the environmental impact assessment before any project can begin.
together with your eu strategy on offshore renewable energy, in november 2020, the commission adopted updated guidance on wind energy developments and european union natural legislation.
the end of life of wind turbines and decommissioning also need to be looked at in terms of environmental impact at sea and in terms of recycling.
therefore, the commission will, in the coming year, carry out further studies on technology development in offshore energy.
these studies will also look at how the related infrastructure can be embedded sustainably in the marine environment and socio—economic ecosystems.
the european union strategy on offshore renewable energy will boost emerging technologies that reduce the impact on fisheries, notably floating offshore wind, wave and tidal devices.
to achieve this, we need to set clear, short and long—term targets for the ocean energy sector.
finally, i would like to underline that easy access to renewable energy produced at sea in the form of electricity and hydrogen will create opportunities for decarbonising other blue sectors, notably shipping, fisheries and aquaculture.
to end, offshore wind energy plays a key role in achieving the objectives of the european green deal.
this commission is fully committed to ensuring that environmental, economic and social sustainability is achieved.
but we have to take care that we do it in a different way, that we make sure that the 21st century recovery and stability put sustainability at the centre, and that is why european trade policy should change.
with this pandemic, we saw the face of biodiversity degradation and what will increasingly happen if we do not make sure that our economy becomes climate neutral.
this means for instance that we need to bring an end to fossil fuels, that green goods need to receive preferential treatment over brown goods and it means that the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapters become really sanction-based.
it is the lever which can unlock the green deal and europe’s industrial strategy for a climate-neutral continent.
i also want to thank you for your involvement in the trade policy review process, which led to the adoption by the commission of the communication on an open, sustainable and assertive trade policy on 18 february.
the new trade policy strategy is built on three pillars: openness, sustainability and assertiveness.
to address today’s most pressing challenges, such as climate change and biodiversity loss or the covid—19 crisis, we need more rather than less global cooperation.
i welcome that sustainability is very much at the forefront of the european parliament’s priorities in your resolution.
more concretely, i also agree with the view expressed by the european parliament that we need to work further on issues such as fair, resilient and sustainable value chains, the enforceability of trade and sustainable development chapters, and the importance of delivering an efficient carbon border adjustment mechanism.
the dialogues on these issues will continue in particular during the review of the 15—point action plan on trade and sustainable development, which will be launched very soon.
at the same time, nato is updating its strategic concept, highlighting the alliance's vision for its security environment and objectives for the next decade.
in the current strategic environment and in light of the common challenges, joining and closely coordinating our efforts is the most obvious choice.
europe and north america face multiple common threats – threats to our democracies, climate change, pandemics, terrorism as well as challenges linked to cyber and hybrid threats.
as recent events in the united states and ireland have shown, we can very quickly find ourselves in a situation where a large-scale cyber attack can have consequences as devastating as the spread of a virus, and even worse, if our energy grid is attacked, for example.
no member state, not even the largest, is strong enough to deal with such a threat, given that we share energy networks and so on.
last december, we set a very ambitious target of reducing emissions by 55 percent by 2030. to this end, we would like to encourage other countries around the world to follow our example.
the european commission will propose a major legislative package on climate and energy next week.
we expect a proposal to be presented that is balanced and fair to all, and in this way we can hope to reach agreement on how to translate our ambitious climate goals into binding law in the shortest possible time.
it has also provided a good basis for the union's action in the international arena, notably at the climate negotiations in glasgow this november.
and this sensitivity must inspire and be the source of the political energy needed to implement the necessary reforms at the political level, it must be the source of the energy and the focus of the political awareness of citizens to be able to offer bottom-up support to these reforms.
they are the tireless and courageous frontline workers to overcome covid—19, and i was deeply impressed by their energy and their motivation and also by their commitment to our common future.
the good news is that europeans are investing like never before in education and skills, in labour market reforms, and in affordable and energy—efficient housing.
to preserve our values, values like diversity, the freedom of the media and the rule of law, to strengthen our resilience and to build a more sustainable europe and to develop the tools our union needs to be better equipped for the challenges that lie ahead.
we need economic growth in europe with digital and sustainable transition.
do not waste it, for the good of your country and, above all, for the good of the union.
– mr president, an ever—accelerating climate crisis, the deterioration of the rule of law in europe, a new turn in the pandemic with a very transmissible variant spreading: these are just some of the issues a new presidency will have to face, and it will be more than enough for any.
while we see unprecedented heatwaves and while the ocean is literally on fire, your presidency will be in a position to start the negotiations on the climate package.
you have a historic chance to help upgrade the eu’s position from the recent insufficient climate targets and focus on a massive rollout of a green and socially just transition.
we say yes to environmental protection, but with the right balance between environmental sustainability and economic and social sustainability.
just as the government is committed to working for slovenia, the slovenian presidency is determined to help the european union achieve the economic, social, health, environmental, digital and all other goals that are still ahead of us.
the demonstrations outside parliament today reflect this sad political climate.
the next cef will continue to drive investment in sustainable infrastructure and the decarbonisation of transport, creating european added value and strengthening the union's socio-economic and territorial cohesion.
the european green deal calls for more sustainable, smart and resilient mobility, and we have made this new cef meet these needs and be strongly green, by allocating 60% of the budget to projects that support the union's climate objectives and by prioritising more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail, inland waterways and motorways of the sea.
the new cef will also focus on synergies between the transport, energy and digital sectors, promoting more efficient cross-sectoral effort in areas such as connected and automated mobility and alternative fuels, and benefiting all european citizens.
what is clear is that ortega feels confident enough to arrest the most popular opposition leaders without further street demonstrations, probably because he has spread a climate of fear and frustration.
every day we are witnessing the increase in repression with people killed, tortured, ill-treated, the persecution of human rights defenders, of women's rights, of the lgbtq community, of the environment, of migrants, but also of people who are deprived of a proper standard of living, of well-being, of health, of housing.
the situation on the ground is very unstable, access to food, energy or the internet is extremely limited and the armed conflict has generated numerous human rights violations, massacres, violations, thousands of wounded, dead, displaced or refugees.
ethiopia is our strategic partner in fighting for regional peace and for international discussions such as climate change.
multilateral and multi-stakeholder action is thus more essential than ever to ensure protection for the displaced and to realise a sustainable solution.
on the one hand, the covid-19 pandemic has caused great havoc, but on the other, climate change, totalitarian regimes, conflicts, economic and social inequality, insecurity, poverty and corruption of multiple governments are all provoking huge migratory flows.
the letter will contain a number of legislative proposals that will be key to implementing the ambition of the new 2030 climate target to cut, by at least 55%, carbon emissions compared with 1990 levels.
after the summer break, in autumn, important initiatives that the commission will put forward includes the data act and policy programme on europe’s digital decade, the sustainable products policy initiative, including a revision of the ecodesign directive, together with an initiative on empowering the consumer for the green transition and circular electronics; the new european health emergency preparedness and response authority, hera; an action plan for the social economy, and the legal migration package accompanied by the revision of the schengen border code.
when we speak about the green deal, we would like to underline the question of the reduction of administrative costs and the regulatory burden and principle in connection with environment policy.
our group strongly supported the von der layen commission in 2019 calling for courage and vision for a more socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable europe.
but we know very well how the social and economic dimensions go together, which is why we are calling for a wide-ranging reform of our economic governance system, which cannot be without a permanent fiscal capacity of the eurozone and the integration into the european semester of the un's sustainable development goals, the green deal and the social pillar.
in the environmental field, after the fit for climate package, we expect a biodiversity law which, similarly to what has been done with the climate law, sets clear and ambitious targets for the protection of nature.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
firstly, i welcome the fact that the request is being taken up again, the need for the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal for the protection and sustainable use of land.
secondly, by 2025 there must be no more subsidies for fossil fuels and by 2027 subsidies that harm the environment must be eliminated.
and finally, i welcome the fact that the text calls for a set of indicators that go beyond gdp by 30 june 2023. social progress has to take into account other parameters, such as health, a stable climate, a healthy environment, thriving ecosystems, and not just economic growth.
in short, it has to contribute to sustainable knowledge-based development and to the objectives of green transition and digital leadership, and support european social and economic recovery.
the antarctic - mentioned here - is facing increasing pressure from marine pollution, climate change, ocean acidification, illegal and unregulated fishing, and also from rising ocean temperatures.
the designation of new marine protected areas in antarctica should therefore be a priority for the european union and is a key objective both in the biodiversity strategy and in the international ocean governance agenda.
and we also need to convince them to designate both areas this year, which would send a very strong political signal ahead of the cop15 in china to push forward ambitious biodiversity targets at the international level.
the treaties make it possible to identify some solutions and also the open dossiers we have on the table one of which you have rightly mentioned we are in the process of revising the regulation on shipments of waste, regulation (ec) no 1013/2006.
the challenge is to stop seeing waste as waste and start seeing it as real raw material.
then our industrialists and entrepreneurs will not have to go through endless bureaucratic procedures in order to be able to move waste from one country to another in the european union.
we must speed up the process, reduce the bureaucracy involved in the transfer of waste from one country to another and invest, as italy is doing massively, in recycling and recovery facilities.
and then we can also afford to limit the export of waste, especially recyclable waste.
this situation is the result of the impact of a number of factors, such as the imbalance of supply and demand on the market and the resulting shortages of building materials, as well as higher energy transport and labour costs.
when the middle east continues to be dominated by repressive regimes, there is no place to address the global challenges that we face together, democracy and climate action that must go together.
and finally, the great challenge of the aeronautics sector is also, in this case, the ecological transition.
and, as you said, commissioner, in the sustainable and intelligent mobility strategy, you promised a revised proposal by the end of this year.
we need aviation to recover to ensure connectivity and cohesion across europe, but it must be done in a sustainable and socially responsible way.
mr president, every new ipcc report is telling: climate change is alarming.
behind the climate act we have an ambitious legislative package on the road to 2030. i thank the commission and vice-president timmermans for presenting it.
but let's focus on the basics: 75 percent of emissions are related to the energy sector, which is largely fossil and imported.
we need to move forward on renewables in a sustainable way and with a respectful deployment, and be efficient.
the best energy spent is the energy we don't consume.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
the european commission's target 55 package is essential for the eu to achieve its target of reducing net eu emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 and becoming the first climate neutral continent by 2050, binding targets following the adoption of the european climate law.
on the other hand, we spanish socialists stress the need to make progress in the deployment of renewable energies in a sustainable and efficient way.
ladies and gentlemen, what should concern us most is to see how ill-prepared we are as a society to deal with global warming.
we must improve our capacity to adapt to climate change by strengthening our preparedness, planning and response tools.
europe needs a specialised response preparedness body for natural disasters caused by climate change.
the scientific community is alert that extreme weather events linked to climate change will become more frequent and more severe, affecting all regions of the planet and becoming increasingly difficult to predict.
the hundreds of deaths from floods and fires in advanced countries demonstrate how ill-prepared society is to deal with global warming, the resulting natural disasters, and the numerous personal and material damages they bring.
the european union must step up its mechanisms to repair damage and losses in affected regions, while developing more effective climate change adaptation strategies.
the scientific community is alert that extreme weather events linked to climate change will become more frequent and more severe, affecting all regions of the planet and becoming increasingly difficult to predict.
the hundreds of deaths from floods and fires in advanced countries demonstrate how ill-prepared society is to deal with global warming, the resulting natural disasters, and the numerous personal and material damages they bring.
the european union must step up its mechanisms to repair damage and losses in affected regions, while developing more effective climate change adaptation strategies.
i think there is a very passionate and very shocked atmosphere about the images we have seen from kabul airport, but the analysis and revision of our model of democracy promotion cannot be done in this hot climate: our analysis about the role of the military, our role of institution building outside and the role of local elites - often corrupt - and our model of democracy promotion have to be revised, but i think it doesn't have to be done as a pavlovian reaction to the unfortunate images from kabul airport.
we cannot deal with climate change, terrorism and global security without working together with china.
and china has to show that it means business on climate change; otherwise, the eu must introduce a border tax to offset the higher carbon emissions of chinese products.
reports of labour exploitation, land-grabbing, pollution and health issues are frequent.
we must support sustainable investments which do not exploit workers, which respect the environment and enhance good governance.
i would hope we would have more opportunities for cooperation on climate policy, for instance.
they say we’re not willing to be a partner on climate unless you stop criticising our atrocious human rights record with regard to xinjiang.
climate change and its consequences, the global decline in human rights and fundamental freedoms, the lack of natural resources, food shortages in so many parts of the world, and many other emergencies, require us to devote all our efforts to developing a policy of cooperation based always on clear principles and fundamental rights with all the actors needed to achieve real change.
let this relationship, which is generating so many benefits for so few within the european union, be put at the service of environmental, economic and social justice on an international scale.
it has also served to arm the energy lobbies and oligopolies: they will take a good portion of the recovery fund, although there are no guarantees that they will meet the paris objectives.
the soul of europe is the alcoa workers who have been laid off, the kellys, the young people who are out of work, the families who cannot pay their electricity bill, open arms and the ngos that rescue people in the mediterranean, and those who are fighting to stop climate change.
the price of electricity is rising steadily because of his climate agenda, as he increases costs for businesses and consumers.
and you announce a new target of 55% reduction in emissions.
the recovery fund, the 'green' digital businesses under the pretext of climate change, all paid for by the people through work 'sharing', telecommuting and layoffs, through 'fixed' pension and working until old age.
with green taxes, with digital taxes, with energy poverty and with fire-pricing increases that governments, like the greek government, are supposedly compensating for - again with the people's money.
this is why, president von der leyen, i kindly ask the commission to make a proposal, as we have discussed, on a digital levy on the carbon border adjustment tax and on the revision of the eu emissions trading system (ets) soon, over the course of the next weeks.
particularly in this global context of increased energy prices, i call upon the commission – i ask us all together – to make sure that we use all the instruments which we have at our disposal and create new instruments, if needed, to help the vulnerable citizens on this transition to the green economy.
finally, together we have launched an ambitious recovery plan that will put our economies back on a greener, more sustainable and more humane path.
the first is the ambition to fight climate change.
the recent un report is telling us that we are in the worst case scenario, we are not doing enough, and we are still here in brussels presenting a cap that goes against the climate goals and postponing the kerosene tax until after 2030. we have to do more and faster.
on the one hand, the climate, where the european car industry is being driven into the ground and massive increases in prices are being accepted by the general public.
i summarize: state of the union, bankruptcy, bad luck and failure, a certain amount of climate hysteria and a migration policy that is increasingly taking away europe's identity.
we have a climate emergency, and the proposals that the commission has put forward are not sufficient.
put your money on climate, on the future, on equality instead.
these funds are to re-industrialize europe, for a competitive, sustainable and digital economy, which creates opportunities and quality jobs.
the recovery plan should be geared towards the green transition, digitalisation and sustainability.
we must concentrate all our efforts on combating tax evasion and creating the environment for genuine competitiveness for enterprises.
the fact that the farm to fork strategy takes this diagnosis and advocates a transition to sustainable food systems based on environmental, social and public health objectives is very good, but i point to three issues.
the right to food forces us to rethink the model of energy transition based on critical minerals.
secondly, we have a predatory trade policy that props up agribusiness, drives out small farmers and deepens our ecological footprint.
a sustainable food system cannot be reduced to a european corral, especially if we are dependent, as is the case, on imported food.
i know we have the green deal, the farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, but the commission scientists in the jrc report warn bluntly that these policies will increase food insecurity and exodus in many rural areas of the european union because of higher costs and lower prices for the producer.
we are not complaining about europe's responsibility in the fight against climate change, but about the irrationality of our trade policy, which has harmful effects outside and within our borders.
we've managed to adapt and we're moving forward, in part because we've moved beyond the misguided conservative austerity policies, and we've moved towards a more social, more inclusive and more sustainable recovery that puts people at the center.
and finally, we need an ecological transition that really changes the way we produce and consume with more energy and food sovereignty and that is not a business for the usual.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
with appalling living conditions, substandard housing, poor roads, inadequate water and poor sanitation, the camp is not a sustainable long-term solution to the displacement of people, nor was it ever meant to be.
i urge the eu to step up its efforts as a mediating partner in support of sustainable and long-term socio-economic development in the region.
the eu recognises the challenge faced by the kenyan authorities in hosting a large number of refugees and shares the understanding that, for many refugees, the best durable solution will be a voluntary and sustainable return to their home country.
together with unhcr and international partners, the eu will continue seeking orderly and sustainable solutions that respect refugees’ rights.
we will also continue supporting countries of origin in creating conditions for the sustainable return and reintegration of refugees.
we must provide an environment that facilitates the development of artificial intelligence, including in those areas that can be described as 'high risk', with the appropriate safeguards.
but we also need mobility plans that embrace safer and more sustainable transport models, like public transport, and that support active mobility.
mr president, i thought i had come here to discuss trade relations between the european union and the united states, but then i read the report and see that you are still going on with your usual blah, blah, blah about climate change, resilience, gender ideology and the fight against the far right.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the first is climate change: the average temperature has risen three times faster than the rest of the planet.
melting is not just a local problem, it has direct consequences on sea level rise, which causes floods, climate-driven migration, disruption of ecosystems and biodiversity.
the recent elections in greenland have sent a very clear message: they are not willing to turn their environment into an open-pit mine, exploited by outside interests.
the european union must, with an autonomous outlook, commit itself to a relationship that puts the fight against climate change and local and sovereign development at the centre.
the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis.
the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis.
the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to cover all the sectors of the economy, including the environment, and to include the environment in the new regulation.
there are two reasons for this: the energy crisis caused by the depletion of fossil fuels and tailor-made legislation by oligopolies and energy lobbies that makes it easier to loot the pockets of working people every month.
it is obvious that, in order to solve this problem, there are also two options: to do nothing and let the families pay the electricity bill, or to push for drastic measures so that the energy multinationals earn a little less for once.
the first answer is clear: continue to invest in renewable sources, which also give us strategic autonomy.
just yesterday acer mentioned that there will be years of price volatility, so we must review the rules for the operation of energy markets.
we're talking about preventing a general impact on our economies that would jeopardize economic recovery and the energy transition.
they must reform the energy taxation system so that consumers do not pay twice and must act rigorously to prevent speculation and profits from the sky of electricity companies, as well as adopt social measures such as the electricity social bond to help the most vulnerable.
the increase in energy prices which is affecting many citizens of the european union today is proof that economic policy cannot be based on ideological assumptions and the naive belief that russia is a reliable partner.
the climate policy pushed by the european commission is also partly to blame for its unrealistic and disconnected social costs.
the current energy market situation is only a prelude to the problems that will be caused by an energy transition that is carried out too quickly and disconnected from economic realities.
the spanish government has reacted late and badly, with a confiscatory and interventionist regulation that causes an unstoppable rise in the price of electricity, which ruins families, bankrupts the marketers, stops the energy transition investments of the entire industry and paralyses the production of renewables.
households only have to pay for the energy they consume, so taxes on electricity bills should be eliminated and the co2 money should be invested to relieve the pressure on the consumer.
madam president, madam commissioner, this house has already recognized in several resolutions that housing is a fundamental right: affordable and decent housing, with access to basic energy services, in line with the social pillar and the sustainable development goals.
however, millions of people in the european union suffer from energy poverty, while the gas and energy market is one of the most profitable sectors in the world, with gross profits and exorbitant prices.
and to do that we need community solutions that will re-design energy markets and oblige member states to implement protective measures for vulnerable groups: more social tariffs, more energy-efficient housing and no more disconnections.
we need a global strategy to eradicate energy poverty now.
the problem is the rise in the price of co2 emissions and, above all, the enormous increase in the cost of gas.
the long-term solution must be to rethink our energy mix to move towards renewables.
we must improve interconnections, which in spain are well below the 10% target, and create a competitive energy market with fewer barriers to entry.
the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines.
the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines.
the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines.
the debate, which took place in the plenary on wednesday 6 october in the afternoon, follows the latest journalistic investigation which revealed the extent to which the international and european financial ecosystem in particular is generating tax evasion across europe and helping money laundering.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i came to this debate today to talk about what is important, which is the recovery funds, to ask you from this house for that diligence in the analysis of the national plans and to ask you also for extreme diligence in the monitoring of the implementation of the funds, to prevent that there is waste, that there is patronage, that there is diversion of funds and, above all, to make sure that the funds go for the very purpose for which they are, which is economic recovery, to smes, families, etc.
but unfortunately, and because of allusions as a spaniard, after listening to mr comín's speech, i am obliged to waste my time in replying to him, to a man who is a fugitive from spanish justice - he and mr puigdemont are fugitives from spanish justice - and who has dared to come here and accuse my country of not being a full democracy.
i regret that i have had to waste my time answering you and not being able to debate with you.
in fact, the creation of instruments that have no clear policy behind them or that are even contrary to common sense in protecting vulnerable people fleeing persecution, war or climate change, rather augurs that what is being done may end up becoming another agency out of control.
the way we do it now is not sustainable, it hasn't been sustainable for decades.
public opinion polls show a high degree of support for environmental conservation and climate change mitigation.
the challenge of bringing food production, climate change and environmental protection together is complex.
if we are to achieve this goal, we cannot avoid recognising and managing conflicts of objectives between the different dimensions of sustainability.
they want to contribute to a more sustainable food production.
second, and this is integral to this, more sustainability as a business model must also be worthwhile for farmers at large.
the debate on the farm to fork strategy is evidence that food is political and that the discussion goes far beyond reducing emissions or preventing nutrient losses; in fact, the report we are voting on tomorrow is an essential step in defending the human right to adequate food for all.
what we should be discussing today is what a sustainable agriculture, a sustainable food chain, should look like.
we should talk about how we can support a reduction in pesticides with alternatives and innovations, new breeding techniques and digital technology, without losing harvests, without reducing the quality of our products, without increasing hunger or farmers losing income, or how we can support farmers on their path to more sustainability and create generational equity for younger farmers.
i would also like to share with you how we can maintain sustainable production of good, healthy, safe food here in europe and avoid displacement effects.
i would also like to emphasize the good cooperation between the environment committee and the agriculture committee.
i think the result shows that you can find compromises when agriculture, environment and climate change come together well.
in short, we must make important commitments in agriculture to achieve good results in our fight against climate change, as indeed happens with the other sectors.
this process must be accompanied by alternatives and public support to achieve a just ecological transition for european agriculture.
because as members of the parliament we have a responsibility towards small producers, who would like to have perspectives and support in becoming more resilient and sustainable.
we also have a responsibility towards citizens, who deserve healthy and sustainable food and transparency.
we should be the ones following the science, which clearly says that our food system needs an ecological transition.
madam president, with this dossier on the european strategy for healthy and sustainable food, the green pact is developing its agricultural component at a rapid pace.
madam president, some may not know that sri lanka has managed to overtake the european commission as a major global environmental leader with its farm to fork strategy.
it is questioning whether it will be able to survive the targets imposed on it to achieve the climate goals, which are also important, without question.
but we need to send a clear message today: that we are responsible and that we will ensure that farmers will maintain their sustainability and beyond, that they will be able to produce quality food - and i stress this here - at affordable prices for the consumer.
any failure to do so will make us dependent on imports of poor quality food from third countries, and climate change will continue to affect our daily lives.
madam president, madam commissioner, the 'farm to fork' strategy is at the heart of the green deal for europe and i will vote in favour of it, because i am convinced that it is our duty as elected representatives to rethink our food systems, based on the lessons learned from the health crisis and taking into account the various red flags that have been raised in recent years in terms of health, biodiversity and climate.
it is essential to change agricultural and food models and to move them in a sustainable direction, while, of course, accompanying farmers in these changes and raising consumer awareness.
yes, because we will have to learn to produce and consume differently if we are to meet the climate challenge that is before us.
agriculture must become even more virtuous, less chemical, but also more respectful of human health, the environment, water, soils and biodiversity, as well as ecosystems.
the current model is a disaster for our climate, for biodiversity and for small farmers.
we're going to make healthy and sustainable food tax-free and we're finally going to stop caging animals.
this is an opportunity to give farmers a fair income with respect for the environment and nature.
first, the european semester must be aligned with the objectives and strategies of the sustainable development goals, the european pillar of social rights and the green deal, and support member states' recovery plans.
secondly, the semester should be based on an approach that integrates economic, social and environmental policies and promotes structural change so that social progress, sustainable development and well-being take into account the root causes of long-term economic and social imbalances.
only then can we ensure that europe continues to enjoy the most advanced welfare systems in the world and also becomes the first climate-neutral continent.
fifthly, along these lines, we believe that sustainable welfare should be integrated into the annual strategy for sustainable growth and into the country-specific recommendations.
ninthly, we must tackle the need for coherence between the objectives of sustainable welfare and monetary policy.
we need to better integrate social objectives, social progress, welfare and sustainability into all european union policies, especially in budget planning to make public investment in social and environmental objectives efficient.
and tenth, and last, the architecture of the new governance of the european union must be based on solidarity, social justice and integration, with equitable distribution of wealth, gender equality, high quality public services - including a high quality and universal public education system - decent employment and sustainable growth.
that is why we consider investment in sustainable welfare to be vital.
the landscape has changed and with the digital and ecological transitions looming it will change even more.
transport accounts for about 5% of european gdp and tourism for about 10%, and both employ millions of europeans; to top it off, the need to move towards a more sustainable economic model is imperative, and that implies a great effort by these sectors in investment and planning at european and national level, so there is no other way: the 2022 budget must be the budget for european socioeconomic recovery.
in transport, we have important challenges: developing european corridors, deploying alternative fuel infrastructure, improving passenger transport and freight distribution through multimodality, making infrastructure more resilient to climate change and adapting it to technological advances such as self-driving cars; fortunately, we have the european transport agencies afe, aesa and aesm, whose role is key in this transformative process, and we need their budget to reflect this.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
– mr president, the european union has chosen to lead the world’s fight against global warming, and events such as the recent floods in germany or the wildfires in greece remind us of the urgency of this challenge, but our union has decided that the effort in this fight falls mainly on the shoulders of the member states, and not those of the european union.
our message is that europe today needs to confront the challenge of climate change courageously, but it must find ways to do it in a way that is economically and socially sustainable.
mr president, the role of public finance in climate goals must take into account clear guidelines on who and how will use those public resources ; it must be the engine that drives the transition, not a mechanism to keep doing business: we need transparency, considering cultural differences, the differences between the rural and urban world, the tremendous and growing economic inequalities, the capacity of smes and small businesses... the change of model is more necessary and urgent than ever: meeting emission reduction targets, seeking efficiencies... but it must not only fight energy poverty and, in addition, be environmentally sustainable, it must also be socially just; it must be produced on the basis of renewable sources and not fossil fuels, but this cannot be done in any way, making it the new boom of speculation or destroying natural environments: we need global planning.
in spain we have seen reservoirs emptied to sell renewable energy at the price of coal, making it inaccessible to the public, while billions of nextgenerationeu funds are being raised.
madam president, mr minister, commissioner, it has been a pleasure to hear from you after just over a week ago the united nations human rights council first recognised the right to a healthy, safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment as a human right essential to the full enjoyment of all human rights.
it is necessary because most of our member states have recognised the right to a healthy environment in their laws and constitutions.
the fact that the constitution of a member state recognises the right to a healthy environment implies that this right is respected in the application of national law.
we therefore need the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to recognise a substantive right to a healthy environment, because it is this charter that ensures that it applies when we are talking about european law.
the climate and environmental crisis, the need for the union to also take a leading role in the global fight against climate change and biodiversity loss, and the degradation of nature, force us to consider the role of environmental law more broadly in our european legal system.
i believe that today we are beginning a path that will lead us to proclaim the right to a healthy environment as a fundamental right, as a human right and as a universal right that we need.
excuse me colleague, i have been pointed out that you’re speaking out of the topic of tonight, which is the right to a healthy environment.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the right to a good environment is recognised in the constitution in most of our countries, and this parliament has just approved an amendment to the aarhus convention on access to justice in environmental matters.
the recent un resolution, which recognises the right to a healthy environment, would therefore be a symbolic issue if we did not know that every globalist initiative hides much more than it appears: in reality, a strategy to systematically impose a specific economic and social model.
they have made the environment a hostage of those multilateral bodies which use legitimate concerns to divert attention from real priorities.
they multiply environmental regulations on families and businesses, but they are silent on china, the most polluting country.
but the price of energy is rising exponentially because of the limitation of emission rights imposed by brussels, and in a few weeks millions of europeans and their families and businesses will be adding to the ranks of energy poverty.
'poor but sustainable' is going to be the new motto of the united nations.
the spanish socialists in parliament are leading this initiative to have the right to a healthy environment recognised in the eu charter of fundamental rights, article 37 of which does not proclaim an autonomous substantive right but the principle of integrating environmental protection into other policies.
we need the charter of fundamental rights, as the guarantor of fundamental rights in the application of european law, to recognise the right to a healthy environment.
the climate and environmental crises and the need for the eu to lead the global fight against climate change and biodiversity loss require us to consider the role of environmental law more broadly in our european legal system.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, once again, congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur, mrs maria da graça carvalho, for your energy and commitment to moving the joint undertakings forward.
the hike in energy prices is, without a doubt, one of the most pressing issues for our citizens and industry today.
following their informal dinner in brdo in slovenia, leaders will discuss recent developments in energy prices and possible measures at eu and national level, taking into account the recent commission communication.
the commission has identified various measures that are at their disposal at national level to mitigate the effect of soaring energy prices.
inclusive and sustainable digital policies and digital connectivity remain important.
in view of the upcoming cop26 summit, leaders are expected to call for an ambitious global response to climate change, urging major economies that have not yet done so to set ambitious, nationally-determined contributions in time for cop26, to present a long—term strategy for reaching net zero emissions by 2050, and to meet their commitments on climate finance.
leaders will also call for an ambitious post-2020 global biodiversity framework ahead of next year’s cop15 meeting on biodiversity in kunming.
if you look at solar energy today, it’s 10 times cheaper than it was 10 years ago.
so these three facts show us that the transition to clean energy is not only vital for our planet, but is also crucial for our economy and for resilience to energy price shocks.
first of all, the global economy is recovering from the pandemic and, with that, energy demand is rising.
second, we had an unusually long and cold winter, which meant lots of heating, followed by an unusually hot summer, meaning lots of cooling and use of energy, and this affected the entire northern hemisphere.
third, the whole world is affected, so this means that irrespective of a country’s energy or climate policies or energy mix, they are affected by the rise in energy and electricity prices.
the answer is to diversify suppliers, but also to keep the role of natural gas as a transitional fuel – and we have to debate this in depth – and, crucially, to speed up the transition to clean energy.
so the european green deal is, in the mid to long term, a crucial pillar of european energy sovereignty in the 21st century.
because, let us remind ourselves that if we look at the price itself, on average one third of the wholesale energy price is set by the market, one third depends on infrastructure and one third, on average, depends on taxes and levies.
honourable members, science has been telling us for years that we must accelerate the transition towards a carbon-neutral economy.
finally, on energy prices – the cost of simply heating our homes and running our businesses.
the current energy crisis is confronting us with the reality of energy dependence in europe.
it is also a warning about a limited ambition when it comes to the energy union, and that we should not include any technology or energy source from our transition plans in the green deal, nor gas as a transition technology.
the green deal simply won’t work if it leaves people literally out in the cold, and therefore this council should focus on concrete measures for citizens in the short term, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
the plunge in electricity prices pushes us into energy poverty, destabilizes governments, slows economic recovery, breaks political and social support for the ecological transition and exposes our vulnerability in relations with our partners.
president von der leyen, two weeks ago you said that the commission was ready to look at ways of decoupling the price of gas from energy.
and we must also improve our energy security by diversifying energy sources, suppliers and routes, as well as by supporting third countries to accelerate their own energy transitions.
in the face of this emergency, with energy prices hitting the most vulnerable, with the unequal distribution of vaccines in the world and with the loss of human life at our borders, we cannot simply go back and forth to nothing.
and europe also needs to reduce its dependency on autocrats when it comes to energy.
instead of building infrastructure that will tie us forever to the goodwill of not necessarily well-meaning governments, we need to invest in renewable energy at home to help the climate, but also to tackle energy poverty.
i see too much complacency on this issue from european governments and institutions, because it is true that we are now experiencing a period of growth that we have not seen in europe for the last 20 or 30 years, but it is also true that this growth comes after a memorable thunderstorm and that we are still far from recovering employment levels from before the pandemic and in some cases even the pre-crisis levels of the eurozone in 2010. i think we need to reflect more deeply on the sustainability of the socioeconomic model which the union has pursued up to now, that is to say, that of making ourselves dependent on foreign influences through a mercantilist model, because someone has to absorb our enormous trade surplus.
energy and costs: i do not believe that the situation we are in today is a temporary and exceptional one.
the president of the commission made some very important remarks, which i should like to take up, but also pointed out our position and some serious doubts about the choices being made, starting with the issue of the surge in gas and energy prices, a subject which is certainly a real limit and which is likely to hit our consumers and our businesses hard.
you have spoken of a real problem, the real problem is the timing of renewable energy authorizations and choices, and it is the issue that makes the green deal approach uncredible.
because if we have that timeframe - six or seven years - to be able to carry out a renewable energy intervention, we are certain that the programming put in place is a programming that will not find its implementation.
and this also concerns another very important aspect to which you referred, namely third party supplies, on which a clear framework for europe is needed, bringing to the agenda of this debate and of this parliament also the question of nord stream 2, together with many other issues concerning the external supply of energy and gas, which are decisive for the credibility of this plant which we are carrying out.
this is an important european council because we see more and more negative impacts of the crisis generated by increased energy prices.
on energy storage, we also need more concrete proposals, not only for batteries and hydrogen, but also for gas, because that was one of the main sources of the crisis.
i completely welcome the approach of the commission on the financing in seeing the emissions trading scheme (ets) as a source of funding to support vulnerable consumers.
i think it was right, madam president, that you focused on energy policy today.
a secure and sustainable digital infrastructure is the foundation of our economy.
whether it's automated driving or geofencing, we need to take all the opportunities, especially in the area of mobility, where we are the world's biggest driver of emissions, to get there.
madam president, we are experiencing a dramatic increase in electricity prices; in the basque country we have seen blackouts and citizen mobilizations because it is an issue that affects the most modest economies in a brutal way, and the measures that the commission has presented to us are not aimed at lowering the price of energy, but at mitigating its effects on the household bill, and there they remain.
with such skyrocketing prices, the european commission continues to question the marginalist pricing model that causes this price escalation, a model that causes us to pay the megawatt hour at current prices, regardless of whether the energy generation comes from renewable sources, which are much cheaper.
a couple of weeks ago, 19 members sent a letter to vice-president timmermans and commissioner simson reminding them that the member states do have legal tools to intervene in energy prices in emergency situations such as the present one, and therefore, and in view of the next european council, we must again demand that public administrations get involved, increase their participation in electricity companies and ensure supply to all citizens at affordable prices.
we must prepare the changes planned for 2030 to move towards the energy transition, and this situation does not put us on the right track; we must seriously talk about a change in the production model.
just as the commission failed to address the illegal migration crisis in 2015 and made mistakes, too late, we are seeing the same thing now with the energy crisis, with skyrocketing electricity and gas prices affecting the majority of european citizens.
hungary won't allow its citizens to pay the costs of the energy crisis, and has implemented a recessionary reduction.
although hungary has been and will be criticised by the commission for this, hungarian consumers are feeling the increase in fuel costs today and not the huge increase in energy prices.
the energy crisis or the migration crisis should not become a subject of debate, either in the ep or in the member states.
the loss of biodiversity is accelerating, droughts and famines are worsening, and ice is melting.
cop26 in glasgow should mark a before and after in the race against climate breakdown.
we have talked a lot about reducing emissions, about climate targets for the next decade, but nothing is materializing yet.
to talk about pollution we must talk clearly about who and what is polluting.
we need to talk about environmental justice, but also social justice, which can only come about with a courageous transition from an outdated model.
mr president, the un climate change conference in november is a unique opportunity for the eu to lead once again, this time to reduce methane emissions, which is the second gas responsible for raising the temperature in the planet after co2.
president von der leyen and us president biden have already announced the global methane pledge, an initiative to reduce global methane emissions to be launched at the cop26.
these countries include six of the top 15 methane emitters globally and together account for over one fifth of global methane emissions and nearly half of the global economy.
starting from cop26, methane emissions reduction should be a top priority for the eu’s climate diplomacy.
so it is my view that, until we have a binding, justiciable international agreement based on a minimum carbon price, while acknowledging the specific vulnerabilities of developing countries, we’re setting ourselves up for failure.
the paris climate accord is voluntary and based on two degrees of warming that i don’t think anybody believes is achievable at this point.
climate change is driving disease, conflict and migration – sometimes all three at once.
i have listened carefully to your interventions and i am encouraged by your support and by your commitment to maintain the european union’s role as a leader in the field of international climate action.
many of you have mentioned the fact that we need to better mainstream climate into all policies, and i could not agree more.
the eu accounts for only an 8% – and decreasing – share of global emissions.
we need all countries to join the global race to zero emissions.
she thinks that the eu needs a climate envoy like john kerry.
well, let me be very clear: i could not imagine a better climate envoy than frans timmermans already is.
so yes, we will need to hear from other parties – but also from the private sector – how quickly we can expect the phasing out of coal and the internal combustion engine and how quickly we can expect the phasing in of technologies and energy sources, such as the scaling up of renewables and the production of the use of green hydrogen.
i am convinced that the european commission and the council, under the leadership of the slovenian presidency, will contribute to the adoption of a comprehensive and balanced glasgow outcome, which will ensure an ambitious global response to climate change and which will keep the 1.5°c goal within reach, in line with the paris agreement and in light of science.
with our domestic experience and external policy instruments and dialogues, we are in a position to help our partners to advance their transition to a low—carbon, climate—resilient economy.
international engagement with strong, rules-based multilateralism is key to achieving successful outcomes in tackling climate change.
on the other hand, the european union is determined to do its utmost in glasgow and to leave with a strong paris agreement and stronger climate ambition at the global level in line with the long-term goals of the paris agreement.
the 26th united nations climate conference (cop26), taking place in glasgow from 1 to 13 november this year, cannot be another summit marked by grand proclamations, big headlines in the press and focused only on setting ambitious goals, which, while important, are also clearly insufficient for effective and sustainable decarbonisation to happen.
a more fine-tuned analysis is needed that leads to actions that ensure a just transition, where the poorest and most disadvantaged do not bear the costs of change, engaging individuals, families and communities in a challenge that structurally improves their lives, not only in terms of air quality and protection from natural disasters, but also in reducing economic and social inequalities and preserving biodiversity.
the increase in energy prices that has marked the global post-pandemic economic recovery demonstrates that urgent action is needed, including better regulation of markets and measures to discourage the use of fossil fuels and to encourage clean energy production and energy efficient practices, including investment in better interconnections and storage.
madam president, i am sure that it sounds like: defending the european way of life; protecting our borders from the invasion of immigrants; gender violence does not exist and climate change does not exist either; eradicating the lgbti ideology; progressive dictatorship; multicultural dunghill... this narrative is a daily part of our days, it is the necessary framework for the far-right policies to progress, but it is also the previous step for the violent escalation of the new fascisms: attacks on lgbt people, shootings of migrants, justification of nazi and fascist crimes, terrorist massacres and the last episode the assault on the headquarters of the italian majority union.
madam president, madam commissioner, the fact is that reducing methane emissions is a quick and efficient way of combating climate change.
between 75 and 90% of methane emissions are associated with imported fossil fuels emitted outside the union.
the expected next regulatory proposal from the commission in the energy sector is an opportunity to implement mandatory leak detection and repair measures as well as rules to prohibit venting and burning beyond safety situations with binding objectives.
let me also say that neither livestock nor the rural world is to blame for methane emissions.
the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important.
the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important.
the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important.
the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important.
the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important.
however, without political stability and more institutional capacity, the country's sustainable development cannot be built on.
that is why we are pleased to have reached an agreement where we talk about education alongside concepts such as climate crisis, green and digital transition, gender gaps or discrimination and where, beyond the purely economic perspective, we highlight lifelong learning, non-formal training or volunteering.
the future of europe will also be shaped by the shape we give to its education: we have an opportunity and we must not waste it.
we also welcome the call for at least 10% of the recovery funds and the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework to be earmarked for education programmes as an important aspect of recovery measures and as part of measures to combat climate change and the rise of the far right and authoritarianism.
i want to take this opportunity to remind you that supporting and investing in science is not a luxury, it is a necessity: the pandemic has made it clear to us, as does the ongoing fight to mitigate and curb the effects of climate change, how important research is and investing in research.
given the opportunity to abandon extractivism and think about where we are going and how to orient our production model in a fair way to the challenges of climate change, we continue to bet on models that will deepen the ecosocial crisis.
thirdly, and probably most importantly of all, it is essential to work together – institutions, member states, sport movements and associations – to protect and promote the european model of sport, a model which is open, which rewards sporting merit, which prioritises solidarity and sustainability, not profit and power, a model that serves social cohesion and societal objectives, a model for everyone, not for closed élites.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking all the groups and the alternative rapporteurs for the great work they have done together over these months: europe is leading the fight against climate change, and after the pandemic we must lead europe's pharmaceutical and healthcare innovation.
the fifth objective: we ensure the sustainability of our national health systems in the 27 member states, which are one of our great strengths and distinguish us from other third countries.
this strategy balances promoting innovation, patient access and the sustainability of our national health systems in europe, putting patients at the heart of all policies.
it is essential to ensure the sustainability of this system and that the next health crisis meets us with the duties done.
i also ask that we take this industrial ecological transition seriously and demand that european industries also obtain their raw materials here in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i listen to my green colleagues, it seems that the member states and the farmers' organisations are the bad guys who make a mess, who don't know what's good for agriculture, who don't know what's good for sustainability in agriculture, and who are, how to say, cutting the branch on which they are sitting.
so they're the people who get up early every morning and they stay up late and they know what's good for agricultural production and agricultural sustainability.
so, apart from the fact that in the common agricultural policy we have to look for a balance between environmental protection and competitiveness, we certainly have to think about people, who are crucial to the sustainability of agriculture, and that sustainability is more important than the sustainability of any other production because agriculture is the only activity that has always existed and will always exist because we will always need food.
professional farmers that produce in a healthy stimulating environment produce good and healthy food.
this healthy environment is our responsibility.
it is an environment with fewer controls, less rules and regulations and more space for professional farmers to take on responsibility and act accordingly.
the new rules of the cap mean that agriculture is more involved in environmental action.
worse still, they will not be able to implement the second pillar's agro-environmental programmes on these lands, they will not be able to implement the first pillar's eco-scheme.
real farmers will lose out because they won't be able to get their environmental premiums back, and land owners will lose out because they'll have less subsidies, and the environment won't benefit.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on a long process with what i consider to be one of the most profound reforms of the agricultural policy, which accounts for one third of the community budget, and we shall probably have to wait and see what happens with one of the shortest, 2023-2027. this reform has added to income support, which is very important in agriculture, greater social, environmental and climate ambition, and this parliament should be proud to have increased social ambition with social conditionality.
there is the recognition of the role of rural women - by the way, very few have mentioned it, perhaps no one - which the cap is doing for the first time, more support for young farmers and an extension of the redistributive payment, as well as greater climate ambition with reinforced conditionality, the percentage of support for the new schemes and 35% of the second pillar measures.
if we do this in the right way, this contributes to a green and sustainable revenue model.
mr president, i think it’s very clear now that we, as greens, will vote against this cap deal, and i think one of the big reasons is that there is no alignment with the new priorities of this commission on the green deal, farm to fork and biodiversity strategy.
i am going to be critical of the regulation on strategic plans: 40% of the cap budget is going to be devoted to environmental and climate issues, to the exclusion of other needs in the sector, and we cannot expect our farmers and stock farmers to make a green cap when they are in the red.
whether it's rain, sleet, frost or blizzard, farmers have been and will continue to be the frontline soldiers in the battle to ensure food security, combat climate change and be the deciding factor in preserving biodiversity.
it is therefore the responsibility of the member states to draw up national strategic plans that put farmers at the centre, reduce red tape and ensure the sustainability of farms, and the european commission must monitor the implementation of this policy in every corner of the european union, as it is the guarantee of a better life for each of you.
europe has made new commitments to combat global warming.
we needed a cap that was in harmony with nature, in harmony with its territories and effective against global warming.
- we are voting today on 270 billion in european agricultural subsidies, for more mega-stalls, for more pesticides and for more pollution.
many farmers, environmental organizations, climate activists have turned against this agricultural policy, because with this disastrous plan, the green deal becomes a black deal in one fell swoop.
the future of farmers, animals, nature and the environment is being sold off.
how is it that this parliament voted for the climate emergency, for the biodiversity strategy and for the farmer to the plate strategy, when it is now about to do the exact opposite?
this common agricultural policy will not solve the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the animal welfare crisis, but will instead fuel them.
mr president, a little over a year ago the spanish delegation of the european people's party voted against the cap proposal put forward by this parliament: the proposal was too rigid in its environmental requirements and it put at risk a large part of the income that spanish farmers currently receive.
it is true that it is not perfect, but today we are voting for a more ambitious cap, a more just cap, a greener and more sustainable cap, in line with the new environmental requirements, and therefore more committed, and we are voting for a more social cap in which the role of women in the countryside is finally recognised, and in which young people are supported, generational change is encouraged and life in the countryside is stimulated, and also, very importantly, the rights of agricultural workers are guaranteed.
we have not been without difficulties, but we have struck the right balance to ensure that social and environmental commitments are not at odds with the economic viability of farms and the future of the countryside.
mr president, the glasgow summit has shown us very revealing images, such as the congestion of the airport terminal with the private jets of the most reputed climate gurus, who say that the workers' tractors and vans pollute a lot; or the teenage greta, with the scientific arguments of a science priestess who does not go to school, shouting at the authorities to shove the climate up their ass, literally.
beyond the anecdotal, the substantial point is that the important issues have not been discussed, namely the concerns of citizens and small businesses about energy poverty, rising costs or rural exodus.
mr president, commissioner, the glasgow climate summit has produced a set of declarations, of good intentions, on the importance of keeping global warming below 1.5 degrees.
all right, but pretty words are no longer enough to make the planet sustainable and habitable.
the european union should set up a climate club of countries that agree to put a price on carbon: countries that are part of the club will be able to trade freely with europe because their companies will be making an effort to fight climate change; countries that are not part of the club will have to pay a tariff - our carbon border adjustment mechanism - to be able to trade with europe.
and in that way we achieve two things: first, we give incentives to other countries to join in this effort; and second, we prevent european companies from moving to other countries to avoid paying the carbon price.
we must use the commercial power of spain and europe to get the rest of the world to join us in our fight for a more sustainable and humane planet.
we've waited until 2021 to celebrate the first mention of carbon reduction and fossil fuel subsidies.
we finally have the rule book and progress has been made on article 6. we need global carbon markets for ambition and to level the playing field.
doubling climate finance, commitments to reverse deforestation or the agreement on methane emissions have been a moderately positive balance.
although i must admit that some member states have been in a skirmish, more concerned with their internal issues than with the fight against climate change.
we are still far from addressing the climate emergency.
with ambition, yes, and social justice, because it's a social and equity issue that's behind climate change.
but there are positive points about this cop26 and i want to say them here today, in this house: for the first time the target of a rapid and deep reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, by 45% by 2030, is included.
we have already talked about the target of reducing emissions by one and a half degrees, not two.
the importance of forests in mitigating climate change is recognised (an agreement signed by over 100 countries to stop deforestation by 2030).
the results could have been more ambitious or better, of course, but it is step by step and together that we must build this global consensus, necessary to walk towards a sustainable and just world.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector.
other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change.
the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector.
other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change.
the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
figures on the ambition for emissions reductions needed to save the planet and figures on the investments and support that will have to be made available to make the transition fair and to ensure that it is not the poorest who pay for the well-being and sustainability of the richest's lifestyle.
this european leadership in the green transition is mainly the result of the ability to make a difference, to commit to an ecological pact that covers all policies, with a strong push for the energy transition and all the technologies associated with it.
mr president, commissioner, thanks to this report we confirm that the european union's energy model is a failure: a failure for people, a failure for the planet.
the data show that energy consumption has not been reduced, which is essential to tackle climate change.
of course, it maintains its great fetish, the marginalist market, raining millions to the energy lobby at the expense of the pockets of working people.
the devastating fact is that 31 million people - equivalent to half the population of france - do not have access to the minimum vital energy and are cold today, with this temperature.
the fact is, mrs simson, that as long as they continue to make policy on the basis of energy, neither climate change nor energy poverty nor justice will reach european households.
we're talking about the year of the great lockdown with emissions reductions of up to 10% by 2020... it's not the reality of today.
renewable sources are becoming the main source of electricity generation: let us support them, even though some say they are not important because the sun does not shine at night.
however, external energy dependence is 61% - the highest in thirty years - and we are suffering record prices from the escalation of the price of fossil gas.
without social support, there will be no solution to the climate emergency.
the annual state of the energy union report reviews progress on energy and provides an overview of the five dimensions of the energy union.
for example, the unprecedented reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 10% in 2020 is highlighted.
the s&d group has been very active in calling for and proposing measures at european level to tackle the energy price shock and protect the most vulnerable citizens.
however, it calls for accelerated energy policies based on sustainable renewable energy sources to also reduce the eu's high energy dependence on the outside world, the highest in 30 years.
these bottlenecks, together with the sharp rise in energy prices, particularly gas, but also oil, are directly affecting the growth prospects of our economy.
wage and pension gaps continue to widen and thus contribute to the feminization of poverty, including energy poverty.
now that the crisis has left us in a worse position, i also hope that the recovery measures, the digital and ecological transition, will take women into account.
we have a great challenge: to overcome adultcentrism to put value on the plurality and complexity of young people's interests and concerns, which go beyond the labour market and also go through the climate crisis or economic policy.
they tell you that your freedom is to become slaves to agenda 2030, or to gambling, or to internet sex, or to climate activists, more concerned about intangibles than the forests that surrounded your cities yesterday; or to confront men and women in sterile gender debates.
and i would like to recall the topics of greatest concern to them that emerged from our public consultation: all the education and training opportunities, climate change, health, well-being and mental health.
anyone who follows the conversations and debates in the eu would list three main subjects that dominate discussions: the covid-19 pandemic, border and immigration control, and environment and climate change.
trade, energy, climate change, the illicit outflows of money from africa to europe, human and drug trafficking, transnational cybercrimes, democratic governance, and human rights, are among the joint concerns for the two continents bound together by history, culture, and geography.
the problems of the environment, and climate change, in particular, can only be properly addressed when we are able to deal with poverty.
we are fully committed to the necessity to act to save the planet from climate degradation.
indeed, our continent, for instance the example of lake chad, has been the hardest hit from the adverse effects of climate change.
the developed world is responsible for 76% of global carbon emissions, whilst africa is responsible for 4%.
there is, therefore, the obvious need for a balance between the social, economic and environmental imperatives of climate action, if equitable global development is to be achieved.
there is enough on our planet to enable all of us to be prosperous in a sustainable world.
we, in ghana, continue to benefit from our partnership with the eu on the sustainable development of our cocoa industry, and the implementation of the green ghana project, which seeks to plant, in ghana, 10 million trees every year.
at this moment we know that, following the preparation of the electoral act, journalists, rural and environmental activists, indigenous activists and students, but also opposition leaders and, in particular, presidential candidates or pre-candidates, have been arrested without guilt.
mr president, commissioner lenarčič, as you well know, the pandemic has paralysed almost everything, except climate change and its effects, which are causing terrible humanitarian crises in the poorest countries - many of them considered middle-income countries, but we must continue to work with them.
in this report, we highlight cooperation between humanitarian action, development, disaster risk reduction and climate actors to reduce displacement.
mr. president, in the 2015 sustainable development goals, we set a target of ending world hunger by the year 2030. and what do we find in 2021?
malnutrition and malnutrition are global threats on the scale of the climate crisis and the pandemic, and our response must treat them as such.
mr president, much has been said in recent years about the need to move towards a sustainable and inclusive transition in europe, but we continue to see multinationals relocating and deindustrialising, impoverishing entire regions after having enjoyed years of public support: this is not just sustainability.
to achieve truly sustainable development and social progress, social actors, political parties and civil society must be united and defend solidarity at work: guaranteeing the right of employees to information and consultation, giving them a voice, is essential to building an equitable, egalitarian and fair economic model.
the reopening of negotiations on the elements covered by the company law package is unacceptable, as is the extension of the commission's forthcoming initiative on sustainable corporate governance to measures on workers' participation rights.
leaders will also touch on energy prices, security and defence, the external dimension of migration, and other foreign policy issues.
following on from the october european council, leaders will return to the topic of high and volatile energy prices.
following the publication of the preliminary report by the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) and the european securities and markets authority (esma), they are expected to invite the commission to further examine the functioning of the electricity market and trading on the eu ets market, and to follow up appropriately.
leaders are also expected to call for the swift examination of the proposals to revise the third energy package.
apart from the pandemic, we will also discuss other important issues at the european council, from energy prices and the overall economic situation, indeed to the belarusian regime's hybrid attack against our member states, lithuania, poland and latvia.
we also see the blatant attempt to intimidate moldova's reformist government by squeezing them on gas supplies at a time of high energy prices.
there's a whole set of economic sanctions in place, targeting the financial and energy sector, dual-use goods and defense.
it is a poster with great ambitions: from the fight against climate change and the digital revolution to the fight against global inequalities and the strengthening of our democracies.
in the next two and a half years, we must lay the foundations for a europe that is more resilient to future crises and reduce instability in areas such as energy supply or the management of migration at our borders.
and there is urgency because today the financial sector is making investments in tobacco, weapons, private prisons, pesticides and so on look sustainable.
with its taxonomy regulation, the european union is pioneering a more sustainable finance.
but everyone knows that lobbies from all sides and some member states, france at the head of them, are exerting intense pressure to have investments in gas and nuclear energy recognised as green.
even the very conservative international energy agency, created in 1974 to ensure the security of our oil supplies, says it clearly: if we are to meet our climate commitments, no more - i say no more - investment should be made in fossil fuels.
nuclear energy, while emitting little co2, poses other major problems, including highly radioactive waste over tens of thousands of years, with which we do not know what to do, and increasingly difficult and costly security in the face of climate, geological and terrorist risks.
and even if these problems were miraculously solved, the astronomical costs and the endless delays of the nuclear gamble simply won't allow us to win the climate battle.
and we have to drastically reduce our emissions by 2030, eight years from now.
there are, of course, places where the use of gas or the extension of a few nuclear reactors is considered necessary to ensure a link with a world of renewable energy and energy sobriety.
on the subject of energy, president lamberts has spoken a great deal, and he has given the greens' view.
we have known for some time what the european situation is in terms of energy supplies and we have known for some time that we are too dependent on countries that blackmail us and with which we have profound geopolitical differences.
but at the same time, growth is likely to be threatened by other factors, which have not been adequately addressed here either, starting with the energy price crisis, which will continue for a long time unless divisions are overcome and clear choices are made in terms of supply and use of resources.
realism and pragmatism are needed to prevent these green initiatives, also in the light of the outcome of cop26, from becoming a serious economic and social problem rather than solving an environmental issue.
people are watching and are feeling the increase in energy prices.
the actions which we are undertaking now, for example, in the field of energy, will make sure that people are better protected.
in the transition from coal to renewable green sources of energy, we need to recognise that for some countries, gas is the only solution.
but there is one factor that is likely to hamper the recovery, and that is the rise in energy prices.
action on taxes on utility bills and price relief are certainly good ways in which individual states are giving oxygen to households and small businesses, but coordinated action at european level is needed, starting with the possibility of common gas purchasing and storage, while we are pursuing with determination the implementation of the green deal with increased renewables and energy efficiency, to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and on foreign sources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the rise in energy prices, many europeans will have difficulty in heating themselves this winter.
the green craze that has taken hold in brussels and is likely to worsen with the new german government wants to exclude nuclear energy from the energy sources that can help to combat carbon emissions, even though it is the only way forward - and indeed a limiting factor - for the commission in the field of ecology.
it is true that renewable energy sources, especially wind power, are expensive, intermittent and more polluting than is generally believed, and are often lucrative markets that some people profit from, claiming to save the planet.
nuclear power is the cleanest, cheapest and most carbon-free energy.
so take off your blinders, stop dogmatically rejecting nuclear energy, an energy of the future to ensure the independence and purchasing power of europeans.
it is essential for our energy security and the pocketbooks of our citizens that we break out of the vicious circle of sanctions, which themselves generate embargoes, and of the insane and absurd policy of a new cold war that brussels has been pursuing for years.
if you want russia to leave us alone, leave russia alone and trade with it: our civilization and our common interests, particularly in energy, should encourage us to do so.
we cannot waste a public euro at a time when life is getting more expensive for millions of families.
the price of the shopping basket and the energy bill have gone up.
as regards energy prices, it is urgent to review the rules of the electricity market.
speaking of russia, this has a clear impact on energy prices.
a final word for africa, for the summit with the african union which will finally take place on 17 and 18 february, where the question of development, the question of security and terrorism, climate change, migration will of course be discussed, but where solidarity with the african continent in vaccination and in particular the fight against the pandemic must also be discussed.
mr president, after having pushed the states towards liberalisation and privatisation of the energy sector, depriving them of this important instrument of sovereignty and intervention in favour of households, businesses and the economy, the eu is now telling them that they must pay the bill for this option, which only confirms the need to regain public control of this sector.
we have also called for the early launch of a centralised european platform for the purchase of natural gas, which will facilitate the creation of strategic reserves and the promotion of renewable energy sources in order to avoid the risk of deaths from cold, power cuts and the closure of factories and businesses.
we have also called for the early launch of a centralised european platform for the purchase of natural gas, which will facilitate the creation of strategic reserves and the promotion of renewable energy sources in order to avoid the risk of deaths from cold, power cuts and the closure of factories and businesses.
in fact, in spain, only 0.15 points of gdp is added to every point of european money invested; this may seem responsible, but it is not: as long as the pandemic lasts, the responsible thing is to spend whatever is necessary to maintain economic activity, protect families and maintain investment, and at the same time, and this is key to avoiding a debt crisis, it is important to have sustainable accounts in the medium term that allow us to assure the markets that any debt we incur will only be temporary.
in addition, environmental issues remained an area of serious concerns for petitioners in 2020. i also take note that your committee has devoted much effort to the protection and promotion of the rights of people with disabilities and children’s rights.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that greater climate ambition is needed to fight climate change and that the contribution of the transport sector to reducing emissions is unavoidable.
transport is an international sector and climate commitment must be global.
we must prevent the creation of carbon tax havens in third countries where we can continue to pollute without any consequences and to the detriment of many european jobs and businesses.
an unconditional social climate fund will be indispensable to ensure affordability and accessibility of transport, to boost public transport, including in rural areas, and to encourage the purchase of zero-emission vehicles.
that is why we in europe have a duty to act to stop this escalation which impoverishes our citizens, and one way of doing so is not to make the situation worse from the european institutions, by ensuring that legislative measures, such as the emissions trading scheme, do not result in additional costs for the energy and transport sectors, which we all pay for.