i believe that every pro-european group in this parliament shares the position that the union must play a major role as a provider of sustainable peace and stability on the european continent and its immediate neighbourhood, as well as beyond, and that we should be a strong promoter and defender of rules—based multilateralism on the global stage.
first, in order for our civilian and military csdp missions and operations to be successful and achieve the long-term goals of producing sustainable stability, it is of paramount importance that they be properly resourced.
if we want our achievements to be sustainable and if we do not want to see other potentially hostile parties reaping the benefits of our sacrifices, we must also work towards the implementation of the future european peace facility.
the new administration in washington represents an opportunity to welcome the us back as one of the global leaders in fighting the covid pandemic and in fighting climate change.
the political decision-makers of georgia owe it to the georgian people to provide a stable and secure political environment in which the country can focus on recovering from the covid-19 pandemic, contribute to international cooperation and become a party to the association agreement with the european union.
five countries have soldiers in syria at this moment, but even with the military support of russia and iran, assad cannot win and only a political solution is sustainable.
and i basically refuse to agree with those who say that it makes no difference what environment a child grows up in.
energy over-dependence, divergent policies among member states, direct interference in political processes, and russia’s very active role in disinformation campaigns should be on our to—do list.
if we want to have any effect at all on russian behaviour we need to be principled and consistent, and this applies to our diplomatic engagement with russia, standing by our partners and our fellow members of the eu in their hour of need, as well as dealing with divisive russian energy projects that are trying to masquerade as purely non-political commercial initiatives.
to build back better, global business must be made more transparent, sustainable and accountable.
the eu has just agreed on the important first step on public country—by—country reporting on income taxes of companies, and we are also moving towards corporate sustainability reporting and towards mandatory human rights and environmental due diligence.
when the other guy put sanctions on russia to stop russia from increasing its energy influence on the european economy, nobody even praised it very much, they just said, "well, okay, that's very nice".
the european parliament has already said that it will not accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
at the same time as we are letting russia raise its influence over our energy policy through nord stream 2, where there are deals made between germany and russia, at the same time as the economical impact is rising because we are trying to solve problems with fit for 55 and climate change, we are just trying to organise regime change.
we are not paying for our defence and we don’t want to have more sovereignty over our energy and climate policy.
the first is our ecological conversion: across the globe, climate disasters are a reminder of the urgency.
of all the hypotheses considered, this is the most serious version of the climate change that is at work.
faster, higher, stronger: it's time to apply the olympic motto to our efforts to save the climate.
the proposal for a common agricultural policy that is deaf and blind to social, climate and biodiversity issues is therefore the perfect example of what not to do.
the 'fit for 55' carbon-neutrality package needs to be accelerated and made more ambitious.
and why not set a target that by 2030, renewables will account for half of our energy?
i would also remind you that the ecological transition can only be achieved with solidarity.
sustainable and fair production costs more.
a word to those who link climate action to the fact that it is being done at the expense of our economy and our jobs.
as long as the union places its own supplies, particularly energy supplies, and its commercial interests at the top of its priorities, we will remain tied to our suppliers and our customers.
how can we get the rest of the world to make sufficient climate commitments if our efforts are not up to our historical responsibilities?
but who here would dare to say that we have no responsibility for climate change, for the depletion of resources, for the maintenance of an oppressive regime in power or for armed conflicts around the world?
to be a leader in the energy transition, green and supportive and a respected and influential player in the world is within our reach, provided we are willing to roll up our sleeves and give us the means.
they want europe to heal the world's climate.
germany already has the highest electricity prices in europe, thanks to mrs merkel's completely screwed-up energy transition.
if europe is to remain a prosperous, economically successful continent and at the same time achieve its goal of massive co2 reduction, it will not be possible with the planned economic experiments of the eu commission or with pseudo-ecological approaches of the so-called greens, who destroy our landscape with thousands of windmills as the sacred buildings of their green creeds.
the only way to achieve this is to make full use of nuclear energy, the most advanced form of nuclear energy, fourth generation.
in the early stages of the pandemic, when faced with the uncertainty of covid, there was not this climate of solidarity and unity but there was selfishness and closure, the response was slow and uncertain.
all this must be done, without a doubt, with a process of environmental and digital transition - and we all agree on this - but it is not that we can turn our backs and say that those who raise the serious problem are demagogues, that this environmental transition cannot be dropped without assessing the general conditions in relation to what is happening in the world, and above all in relation to the impact on our production and economic system, because otherwise we risk doing damage and we will not give results that we must all look at with equal certainty.
the lesson of the afghan disaster is that the eu is working on a sovereign foreign policy based on smart development policies, fair trade, effective climate protection and a humanitarian migration policy.
and to you, social democrats and greens, you know that you cannot implement your ideas of better social security and effective climate protection with the majority that exists in this house.
let's work together to build new majorities for social and climate justice, for a digital transformation that leaves no one behind, and for the strengthening of democracy.
sustainable development, to save our planet from environmental catastrophe; technological development, to help our businesses compete in the global market; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
– madam president, first of all, on behalf of the council, i thank and congratulate president von der leyen on her address, on her strong and continued pro-european conviction, and on her action in this moment as the eu is gradually recovering from the pandemic but facing great challenges in terms of climate change and the international situation.
the presidency can only applaud the announcement about the building of a new eu chip ecosystem and the new cybersecurity act.
that is why we applaud the announcement of the new climate social fund.
that is why we must have the courage to put an end to the austerity era and its rules, first of all, by a comprehensive reform of our economic governance system, which cannot do without a permanent fiscal capacity for europe and the integration into the european semester of the un's sustainable development goals, the green deal and the social pillar, which must be indispensable objectives for development that is environmentally sustainable and socially equitable.
they face rising energy and raw material prices, shortage of components, unfair competition from third countries.
i think the most important issue of the last year is, of course, the climate action package presented by the european commission, which is four thousand pages long and says that we should save the world.
then our citizens -- our people -- will pay for this fun, which is unlikely to get us anywhere, much less save the climate.
the us is in the process of redefining itself on the international stage, and the eu must take this new approach into consideration as we move forward, working together on areas of common interest, not just about deepening trade, but also on defending democratic principles, human rights, cooperation on cybersecurity and, of course, the planet’s greatest challenge: climate change.
we have to go beyond defence and trade cooperation and work together to reinforce the multilateral system, cooperate on climate change, the global response to the health crisis and the protection of democratic standards and fundamental rights.
we must not lose sight of the work we can and must do together with the united states for peace in the world order, democracy, human rights, the environment, global health and a common security and defence policy.
in view of all that is happening in the world, such as the fight against the covid-19 pandemic, climate change and also disinformation, it is important to work with like-minded countries, in particular to strengthen transatlantic cooperation.
after refusing cooperation with the european union, lukashenko is on his way to fulfil the following threats: to flood the european union with migrants, drugs and even nuclear waste.
the privatisations that have taken place in the energy sector, such as those of edp and ren in my country, and which the commission and the governments are protecting, are absurd and scandalous.
speculation in the carbon market is absurd and scandalous, and the commission and governments protect it.
the energy poverty is scandalous, where last winter 36 million households could not heat their homes, and the commission and governments do nothing.
we need to treat energy as a common good.
it is urgent to accelerate the transition to renewable energy and end our dependence on fossil fuels.
madam president, the soaring prices of energy, fuel, consumer goods are not temporary.
the very expensive electricity due to the liberalised energy market by the european union and governments is becoming inaccessible.
it is the result of the green transition strategy with a quadrupling of the energy price due to desalination, the very expensive natural gas and the promotion of the monoculture of renewable energy, with the trade of pollutants as a tool.
it is up to them to intensify the struggle for the abolition of all predatory indirect taxes, substantial increases in wages and pensions, for energy to be a social good and not a commodity, to claim power and an economy based on their own interests.
madam president, madam commissioner, energy prices are rising extraordinarily - as we know - and are seriously harming consumers, businesses and industries, and are also causing damage because the increase in inflation is also largely due to this.
in the short term, our energy dependence greatly limits our scope for action, but it does not make it impossible.
we can mitigate the impacts by compensatory measures such as tax reductions or exemptions for certain types of consumers, by monitoring free competition between operators and by eliminating non-energy-related fees and charges on electricity bills.
in the long term, it is necessary to create a favourable investment climate, make good use of the recovery mechanism, increase interconnections, promote further digitalisation of the sector and, crucially, make an energy transition in a flexible way that allows our industrial capacity to be strengthened and the competitiveness of the economy to be strengthened.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of analysis has been done on the rise in energy prices.
thirdly: if we are to diversify our sources of supply and increase the amount of renewable energy, madam commissioner, the relationship with africa is crucial: the european union is also supporting the energy transition in north africa and sub-saharan africa.
we are freeing the energy field from purely financial speculation.
i'm talking about the ets, which we're going to reform: co2 emission allowance prices should be determined by market mechanisms between energy operators and industries that use those allowances, and not by those who use the ets as a bullish stock game for easy profits, preventing them from giving that signal of stable, and sometimes rising, prices that serves to accompany companies towards the environmental energy transition.
we are on the verge of perhaps the most crucial climate summit ever.
there are many explanations for the rising energy prices we are discussing here today, and i fully understand the concerns.
we have not developed renewable energy in time, nor have we been good enough to save energy, including in all buildings.
renewable energy is the cheapest form of energy we know today.
but that again requires that we get the necessary permits to produce more renewable energy.
if we do not, we will not succeed either in our climate goals or in making europeans safe and secure and warm as they head into the cold winters.
at the fourth minute of mrs. samson's speech, she said, "the only solution to the energy crisis and rising prices is a greenhouse effect".
and many speakers here, because, well, this is not a very logical house, this is a house that generally follows ideology and fanaticism, not arguments and economic logic, then demands that we need to increase independence, reduce gas supplies, reduce the use of fossil fuels, increase green energy.
as my good belgian colleague said, nuclear energy is like being put under a i don't know what kind of a field.
this has destroyed energy independence and now they are asking for coal and gas from russia, which is manipulating the europeans.
mr michel, mr weber, do not waste your efforts on erecting walls which have so many times buried the dignity of people on european soil.
– madam president, it is inevitable that solid and comprehensive arms control, non—proliferation and disarmament architecture based on binding treaties and reinforced by a reliable and transparent verification mechanism is a key to maintaining peace, stability and security in the world, as well as guaranteeing sustainable development.
the report reaffirms its support to the jcpoa and it commends the central role played by the iaea, the international atomic energy agency.
the upcoming npt review conference, long delayed by the pandemic, provides us with an opportunity to give a new impetus to nuclear disarmament efforts, and we must not let that opportunity to go to waste.
the priorities in the multiannual indicative programme are basically measures to prevent or mitigate the consequences of climate change and promote sustainable development, and they are focused to address directly the population without, i insist, being instrumentalized by the government.
more than half of our funds are devoted to mitigating the effects of climate change, protecting biodiversity and supporting civil society.
the other half is devoted to promoting sustainable economic growth, tackling food or food crises and the already inevitable consequences of climate change.