53% of digital emissions comes from services, data centres and infrastructure, while 47% comes from end-user appliances.
this shows that we also need to start tackling data centres, making them more energy-efficient, while we increase the digitalisation of our societies.
it is important that the rrf includes earmarked money for both climate, climate work and digitalisation.
if the billions of dollars in stimulus funds are used in accordance with the principles of the green deal, we can accelerate the transition to a carbon-neutral society, but the true cost and impact of the virus will only be seen in the coming years, when the full impact of covid on well-being becomes visible.
mr president, i am in favour of future carbon tariffs if they reduce the risk of carbon leakage and thus improve the competitiveness of european industry against polluting countries.
however, the committee's own-initiative report on the carbon tax went down the wrong path in many respects.
the report stresses that, unlike the ets, the mechanism should not consider wood burning as a carbon neutral fuel and that the revised and updated framework should also include a price for carbon contained in felled wood and depleted soil.
i mean, the tree's decay is also a big factor in the carbon dioxide emissions.
let's be smart and smart about this carbon tax.
mr president, as we raise our ambition to tackle climate change to meet our commitments under the paris agreement, we must at the same time look after european jobs and industry.
that's why the carbon tax is a welcome opening.
if it is properly built, it will prevent carbon leakage and also prevent us from outsourcing our own emissions outside the eu.
it must ensure that products produced at the expense of the environment and climate do not gain an unfair competitive advantage within the eu.
so far, carbon leakage has been contained within the emissions trading scheme by free zones.
as the court of auditors has found, the free allocation has slowed down the transition towards carbon neutrality and instead of providing an incentive, has provided undue profit for operators.
the introduction of a carbon tax should mean the abandonment of expressions which are harmful to the climate and which slow down innovation.
it is essential to define the carbon footprint of a product or service.
the eu's trade policy as a whole has not taken climate into account sufficiently.
the carbon tax mechanism is a step in the right direction.
madam president, we need a global price for carbon.
that is elementary for us to achieve our global climate objectives and to make sure that the whole world moves towards low carbon production.
and we, as europe, also have a responsibility to play as well, because our consumption partly creates emissions outside europe.
so we have a right and a responsibility to regulate these emissions.
we must push forward climate action both within the union and by our trading partners.
for us, it is better to support green investments in european industries and readjust that way, rather than support the continuation of emissions.
so it is clear that, with the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, the free allowances have to be history.
i hope that the commission takes parliament’s position on this seriously and makes sure that we create a clearer, more global price for carbon.
science and science—based policy does make a difference, but there is the question of improving health, building a sustainable economy, tackling poverty or addressing climate change.
parliament has managed to achieve an agreement of 35% climate earmarking and a 7.5% earmarking for biodiversity research until 2026, and 10% after that.
now the billion euro question is: will all of this excellent research help us to avoid a climate and environmental catastrophe?
will the over eur 3 billion that we will spend on climate and biodiversity research save us and our planet?
we must change the way we produce and use energy, the way we move, the way we eat, the way we produce, the way we consume and the way we farm and use land.
our agricultural policy is not science based and now we know that even the eu’s climate law will not be in line with the scientific evidence of how to stay within 1.5 degrees.
so there is ample evidence to prove that horizon europe has to be a tool to increase our science ambition, and also with innovation policies to put into practice solutions to the climate crisis.
few citizens in the eu now love programmes, but life is a bottom-up project that protects the local nature that is important to many people and creates the kind of circular economy and climate projects that local communities appreciate.
when i was the minister of the environment in finland, we did a collaborative project with the ministry, researchers and local ngos to protect the silkworm.
we have a lot to do in this decade: not only can we turn the fight against climate change into a win, but we also have to stop the loss of biodiversity.
life has been the programme dedicated to nature conservation, and now that 10% of the eu budget will be allocated to actions promoting nature conservation and biodiversity from 2026, life is also an example for the whole budget of how nature is being protected.
life is a successful entity and an important part of the response to climate change.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action strategy.
the new long-term financial framework for the mff therefore has a particularly important climate action and biodiversity earmarked component.
it provides the opportunity to do long-term, cutting-edge and impactful climate and environmental work.
we must pay particular attention at this time to stopping the loss of biodiversity.
biodiversity is certainly valuable in itself, but it is also essential for our ability to cope with climate change.
the key to climate action is, of course, to have ambition, but also to find win-win solutions that benefit the climate and create sustainable economic growth and new jobs - the circular economy being a good example.
the eu's overall climate and environment policy is in many respects highly contradictory.
the role of the free-riding man in agriculture is the most obvious example of this, and it is a waste of money if anything.
but as hydrogen technology reduces emissions, so does energy efficiency.
i think it is important that energy efficiency standards are flexible in the future when hydrogen technology, or other similar technologies, can achieve large emission reductions in industry.
madam president, renewable power is the backbone of future energy systems.
wind power is currently often the cheapest form of new energy investment in northern europe, while solar is that in southern europe.
90% of new power generation capacities will be renewable based on the most recent international energy agency analyses.
it can help us with decarbonising steel production and it can help us with lorry and maritime traffic in achieving climate goals.
but, we have to remember, hydrogen is just an energy carrier that will take renewables to sectors, but the most efficient option of direct electrification with renewables is not an option.
without renewable energy, we won’t have any renewable hydrogen.
we don’t have any sustainable hydrogen so there is no industrial leadership on hydrogen in europe without increasingly focusing on increasing renewables in europe.
we must look at the energy system in a holistic way, not focusing on just one energy carrier.
climate and digital leadership is something worth pursuing.
a sustainable bioeconomy, together with a circular economy, offers industry the best opportunities to replace non-renewable raw materials and fossil energy.
the promotion of the bioeconomy supports the dual transition and climate and digital leadership.
climate change is about to be a stick in every department.
there are numerous climate scientists around the world who question the present declaration.
the main driver of emissions and the main additive is currently population growth and the resulting growth in gdp.
it enables citizens and civil society to have an impact on their environment.
the environment and its well-being belong to each of us, not to those in power at a given moment.
citizens have a right to know the state of the environment and, if necessary, to hold the polluting or secretive government accountable.
the same should apply to the collection of environmental research and data by member states.
finally, mr president, i would like to draw attention to the ect treaty, the energy charter treaty, which allows companies to sue states under the investment protection clause, thus slowing down the transition to carbon neutrality and preventing democratically elected governments from implementing the will of the people.
– mr president, this is the first time the european parliament gets to vote on a biodiversity report that has targets based on science.
politicians have only recently started to listen to scientists who are telling us that it is the web of nature, ecosystems and biodiversity that our very own existence depends on.
we must now halt the decades-long and increasing loss of nature on this planet and in our own environment.
scientists now tell us that we must protect at least 30% of land and water to stop biodiversity loss.
on land, the majority of biodiversity is in forests.
sustainable forest management will fix it, they say.
we must endorse a legally-binding biodiversity law and a legal solid framework.
we must support more sustainable agricultural systems with fewer pesticides and less excessive use of fertilisers.
mr president, biodiversity is not only valuable in itself but also an essential part of the solution to climate change.
the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead.
the biodiversity strategy we have adopted is already the third of its kind, and biodiversity continues to decline.
we must be able to change these patterns of action on a sustainable basis.
biodiversity deserves and needs an international consensus and commitment to end biodiversity loss, such as the paris agreement.
– mr president, the european high-performance computing joint undertaking has the possibility to provide the needed calculating infrastructure to help us solve some of today’s and tomorrow’s problems, ranging from identifying viruses to providing solutions for combating climate change.
a very positive element is also the availability of supercomputers to various groups of people and ensuring that the computers aim for energy-efficient operation and running with clean energy.
mr president, the climate law now presented contains serious problems, but its objective must nevertheless be supported.
it sets a binding target for the eu to be carbon neutral by 2050 at the latest.
scientific advice says it should be at least 65 per cent, the compromise now negotiated sets it at a net target of 55 per cent, which means that the actual reduction in emissions is less than 53 per cent, which is far from what it should be.
and so will all the other decisions that we will need to support the goal of carbon neutrality.
but we will certainly have to do so in the coming years, because the objective of being carbon neutral by 2050 at the latest cannot be achieved otherwise.
it does not meet the european demands to do enough for the climate, nor does it relieve us of our responsibilities.
mr president, there is no stable 'normal' to compare with in climate matters, but the 'normal' is constant change.
a vast number of climate scientists are questioning the current climate model, which is proclaimed as the only truth.
the eu is aiming to have tens of millions of people switching to electric cars by 2030. where do you get carbon-free electricity?
the modern diesel car is more climate-friendly than an electric car charged with coal-fired electricity.
the finnish industry is not listening to the carbon tax.
mr president, the fight against the climate crisis is urgent.
the world's top scientists are warning us more and more loudly that the consequences of the climate crisis are already here and they are getting worse.
we in europe must make the fight against the climate crisis and the accompanying extinction of species our central political task in this generation.
so what's the climate bill gonna do now?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's emissions reduction targets are not exceeded.
it's time to stop making excuses and take action on climate change.
mr president, stopping climate change is indeed one of the greatest challenges of our time.
there is a huge social and economic transformation ahead, and it must be carried out in a fair and sustainable way.
today, the european union is taking an important step forward when we vote in favour of a new climate law.
today we are also voting on a public sector lending facility to support a just climate change.
it will enable the european investment bank to lend tens of billions of euros in public investment to help the energy transition.
the transition to a sustainable and carbon-neutral society will require very large investments, in the billions, not only from public but also from private actors.
mr president, i congratulate the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and my colleague grace o’sullivan on the excellent work they have done on this report.
the eight environment action plan covers a crucial decade.
this is our decade to get it right, to start living within the planetary boundaries in all our policies, in all fields of the environment.
the international energy agency has estimated that to reach our rising demand for electricity and greening our energy systems, we might require as much as usd 131 trillion investment in renewables by 2050. thirty-seven percent of the eu’s recovery and resilience facility should be invested in climate actions but this will clearly not be enough.
so, dear colleagues, i urge you all to vote for the envi report in its entirety, calling for the phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 and other environmental harmful subsidies by 2027.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur.
so while the recipe for solving climate change is ultimately simple: emissions down, sinks up, and cash flows to support the necessary ecological reconstruction, we are not yet demanding changes in the mechanisms of the economy.
mr president, commissioner, the climate crisis is happening now and there is no time to waste, we have already wasted too much of it.
fit for 55 means that the eu commits to reducing its emissions by 55% by 2030. that may sound great, but in fact, this is the decade when the systemic shift to carbon neutrality needs to happen in europe and the rest of the world.
the eu must be a climate leader.
action is needed now and the goal must not only be carbon neutrality but also progress towards carbon negation.
the increase in carbon stocks in the land use sector must therefore be on our agenda now, also in agriculture and forestry.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of energy policy, but also of the environment policy.
mr president, the ipcc is also testifying that there is a real urgency to reduce transport emissions and that electric and hydrogen cars are coming.
there's a real rush to reduce the emissions of these cars.
i think the commission should take more steps to promote the use of synthetic fuels and renewable transport fuels.
i also hope that the renewal of the red ii directive will help to accelerate the conditions for the increased use of renewable, zero-emission transport fuels.
mr president, energy poverty is a real problem and i see it as the sum of many things happening at the same time.
the production of wind and solar energy is affected by geopolitics - and of course emissions trading - but this situation serves as an example of the need for europe to become energy self-sufficient, and it can be achieved by switching to renewable energy.
in acute emergency, short-term solutions are largely in the hands of the member states, often in terms of social policy, but for the eu we can promote energy efficiency and changes in heating systems and, above all, accelerate the transition towards sustainable energy production.
so that is something that the commission needs to look into very thoroughly, and we could – and should – increase the role of the commission in international energy contracts done by eu countries.
this has to be the last energy price shock created by fossil fuels in the european union, and we can do that.
renewables are cheap and renewable build up should be scaled up fast.
what we must do is to support the individual households with social tariffs and social contracts, energy loans, that are already there to get rid of gas boilers, to go into renewable heating and cooling, and to go into energy efficiency, and we can also do that during this winter with our member states.
so the energy transition has to be hastened.
however, the rapid rise in electricity prices proved that unless sufficient renewable and zero-emission capacity is built, things will go badly.
and as the integration of european electricity markets progresses, the price increases will also affect countries that themselves are building more and more clean, zero-emission energy.
mr president, this is an historic opportunity to update our competition policy to be in line with the sustainable future for the climate and for the environment.
we signed on to the paris agreement that calls for making finance flows consistent with climate—resilient development.
also, we are not just facing a climate crisis, but a biodiversity crisis.
so when we, for example, invest in hydropower, we have to also take into account biodiversity.
this is as important as the climate crisis.
the un conference on the environment has just unanimously declared that global deforestation is an existential threat to the future of humanity and other species.
the un human rights council, for its part, last week decided to recognize a healthy environment as a human right.
similar provisions on the right to the environment are found in the national constitutions of many countries.
the charter of fundamental rights of the eu also calls for a high level of environmental protection and for improving its quality.
we are talking about concrete actions, for example, to prevent people from dying from air pollution in europe and to strengthen the rights of local communities all over the world, for example, the right to intervene in environmental problems in mines.
we have a lot of work to do, and we must work together to strengthen the right to a clean environment.
i consider it particularly important for the eu's climate efforts that the joint undertaking for a european circular economy and biobased solutions is involved with the nine strategic initiatives of the regulation, with the other nine strategic initiatives.
mr president, there are a lot of promises and commitments on climate now.
the unep emissions bubble report shows that, with the decisions taken so far by the parties to the paris agreement, we are heading towards warming of more than three degrees, whereas under the paris agreement we should aim for a half-dozen.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector.
we need a deeper understanding that biodiversity and global warming are not separate issues.
while we must strive to protect and restore the natural carbon sinks of forests, we must also take care of biodiversity.
the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead.
and as a rich continent, we have a duty to shoulder our historic responsibility and act as a bridge builder between the northern and southern hemispheres so that developing countries also have a real opportunity to take action on climate.
and we need to be able to agree on a global carbon neutrality target that will allow us to get to 1.5 degrees.
mr president, the glasgow cop meeting is not just one of the climate meetings in an unending row.
i’ve been to a few and i know how people can treat them, but this is the checking point of the paris agreement where we check whether we are in line with our climate targets.
so i would urge you, commissioner, and the whole commission, to treat this as the vital climate meeting that will decide whether we can achieve our global climate agreements and keep global warming to 1.5 degrees.
currently we are using our carbon budget globally within the next 10 years.
so many countries have long-term goals, even china, but few countries have short-term implementation and this is where the eu must push for all countries to come with real commitments, contributions, in the short term, phasing out fossil fuels, financing climate investments in poorer countries, and making sure that we are on track in the next few years to get emissions down seriously.
mr president, as has been said many times, we are putting methane into the atmosphere much less than we are putting carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, and methane is there for a much shorter period of time.
but methane emissions are vastly more dangerous and harmful than other greenhouse gas emissions.
agriculture is the largest contributor to man-made methane emissions, followed by energy.
in the energy sector, the identification of methane leaks and the correction of errors in the natural gas infrastructure is a particularly urgent task.
in this respect, satellite technology is key to identifying the most problematic areas of high emissions.
however, i would like to draw particular attention to methane emissions from agriculture, and particularly from livestock farming.
a very significant proportion of the methane emissions from manure and sludge can be produced as biogas, a raw material that replaces fossil raw materials.
and finally, here in parliament, our decision-making, our decision-making on climate matters would be impossible, at least with that precision, if we did not have measured and reliable data on, say, emissions.
when we are relying in the future more on data to tackle climate change and to turn our societies into more digital ones.
europe also has a moral and ethical responsibility to develop and expand its own sustainable european mining wherever there are raw materials and opportunities.
they must be capable of being used in an environmentally sustainable manner.
mr president, when the rest of the world is starving, we are having a climate emergency.
in the face of climate religion, we are asked to reduce or even to abandon meat eating.
climate change affects the crop, but even a bad summer cannot destroy the grass the cow eats.
the eu cannot stop climate change or influence weather conditions, but we can influence whether we have enough food in the future.
imported food is not a climate issue.
it will require that everyone's pledge and declaration become a binding decision, and it will require further tightening of emissions cuts in europe as well.
the era of fossil capitalism is over, and climate solutions must be based on scientific knowledge.
the most important thing now is to achieve sufficient real reductions in emissions in the short term.
– mr president, last year, renewable electricity surpassed fossil electricity for the first time in europe, and it looks like the eu and most member states have met their 2020 renewable energy targets.
we are lagging behind on energy efficiency, and quite badly in a number of member states.
meeting the renewable targets and not the energy-efficiency targets shows that nationally-binding targets actually work, because we’ve had those renewables in 2020. we need to ensure that also our 2030 framework is fit for purpose and fit to deliver beyond the 55 percent greenhouse gas reductions, so we should look at strengthening the current proposals in the parliament and in the council.
i have also actually met with a number of industries, talking about the energy transition, and the energy companies are telling me that the pace of renewable development is not fast enough and that, due to this, they may need to transit via fossil gas, even in companies that wouldn’t want to do it.
so if we look at the iea scenarios, we are actually going down in the fossil investment prognosis for net zero targets, but renewable deployment in europe is three times too low to what we should do with our 2050 net zero goals.
also, if we go into the energy report, we should also look at the governance regulation that is needed to ensure that we have timely information and a better understanding of how to achieve higher targets.
to close, i would also like to note that recovery and resilience plans are expected to boost climate-related investments by eur 177 billion, but we are still annually subsidising fossil fuels by eur 52 billion.