this means addressing the need for training to implement the european detention manual, addressing the current divergences between the different procedural systems and their safeguards in the member states, harmonising european criminal law... but also extending the list, free from double criminality, to deal with crimes such as gender-based violence, environmental crimes or crimes against humanity or genocide and violence against the constitutional integrity of the member states.
as you know, climate change and its impact on cultural heritage is a matter of great concern to us.
the commission brings together experts from the eu member states in a working group to identify and exchange good practice and innovative measures to protect cultural heritage from climate change.
experts are working towards a report to be published in 2022. the report also mentions economic potential and sustainability.
in december, we also launched a climate education coalition.
culture is at the heart of climate change.
tackling climate change requires innovative and creative exchange across many disciplines, including culture, and this must be one of our top priorities if we are to build a sustainable future for europe together.
the commission also gives high priority to sustainable cultural tourism, which is closely linked to this issue.
the working group on sustainable cultural tourism, composed of representatives of the member states, is a good example of the work done in the field of sustainability.
this group created the first ever definition of sustainable cultural tourism and made over 50 recommendations.
a picture that should make us question the evolution of a more respectful and sustainable tourism.
from the negotiations with the council, i would like to stress that we have managed to include among the objectives of this instrument support for budgeting to achieve climate objectives, the gender perspective and support for the fight against aggressive tax planning, fraud, tax evasion and avoidance.
but i would also like to stress that, beyond health, job creation, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, research and innovation, and the promotion of sustainable investment, we are finally coming to the role which the commission itself should play.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs lulling, member of the commission.
while some people here, including in this parliament, are still trying to oppose fishing and the protection of fisheries resources and biodiversity, the fishermen i meet have understood that they depend on it.
more fish in the sea means both achieving our environmental goals and protecting biodiversity.
the year 2020 was to be the year when the european union was to achieve good environmental status for its seas and the year when all fish stocks were to be exploited at sustainable levels.
they explained that some species, such as the st. james's shell, were doing very well, but they were seeing other phenomena, such as the proliferation of sea spiders due to warming waters and climate change.
all quotas must also be set in a transparent manner and never beyond scientific recommendations and levels to achieve maximum sustainable yield.
it aims to fish below the level of the msy (maximum sustainable yield).
in preparing this report, i met with many stakeholders from the fishing industry and environmental associations.
the biodiversity strategy sets the objective of having 30% of european waters covered by high-level marine protected areas.
fish populations are also faced with climate change and various sources of pollution, such as wastewater treatment, pesticide use in agriculture, cigarette butts thrown into the sea or from beaches, sunscreen, etc.
i invite the commission to use this report for the implementation of the biodiversity strategy, which must be translated into binding legal texts, for the action plan for the conservation of fisheries resources and the protection of marine ecosystems that you announced for this year and for the evaluation of the common fisheries policy, also in the coming months.
they divert marine migration, trap young fish, increase bycatch and contribute to marine pollution.
we are not here to believe that fishing is a form of crime against the sea, and it is only with fishermen, the first explorers of the oceans, that we can learn more about them and preserve species and biodiversity better.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the issues relating to the provisions on sustainable development in our agreements.
commissioner, the commission has committed itself to dealing with all breaches of labour law, climate change and human rights law at the same level as complaints about market access, with the european trade compliance officer and the new single entry point.
the political climate between the eu and our neighbour turkey plays a significant role in the stability of the region and hence on the arrival of migrants, and we need to continue monitoring the situation quite closely.
this is a sustainable alternative and takes into account the objective of integrating migrants, especially unaccompanied minors.
as a country with the perspective of eu accession, we expect bosnia and herzegovina to work on sustainable long—term solutions, to set up facilities evenly distributed across the full territory of the country.
it's time to stop nord stream ii, which is incompatible with eu energy policy.
as negotiator for my greens/efa group, i have paid particular attention to the protection of female whistleblowers; the links between human rights, climate and biodiversity, including the concept of ecocide; all matters relating to women's rights and systemic violence; in defence of freedom of belief, but also of non-belief; we need to speak out against systemic racism, violence against indigenous people, and the need to force our companies to act responsibly and reasonably in their investments.
our parliament recently declared a climate emergency in the face of the destruction of our planet.
economic recovery to ensure the implementation of our european budget and our european recovery plan, climate action to approve the european climate law and guarantee at least 55% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030, digital to guarantee european sovereignty, social europe with the preparation of this porto summit, which should give momentum to the european foundation of social rights, as well as europe open to the geopolitical world with an africa summit, relations with the mediterranean, this is strategic autonomy.
while brussels has learned from its mistakes in previous crises, creating the sure programme to help workers keep their jobs, how will it be possible to effectively combine economic ambition with social and environmental ambition?
europe has given a solid response, a united response, an unprecedented historical response, putting very strong actions on the table, which amounts to more than 1.8 trillion euros to be able to achieve a more digital europe, a more inclusive europe, a more sustainable europe, a more competitive europe.
i keep saying it: we cannot succeed in europe's environmental and digital transition by leaving more and more people on the side of the road.
like, i believe, many of us, i was raised in a working environment where you had to work 24/7 just to build up your career.
there's no time to waste.
this provided political guidance on further work on a modern eu tax environment.
in the resolution to be voted on today, we call for sustainable, resilient and earthquake-resistant reconstruction and for financial aid to be distributed swiftly to enable croatia to recover quickly.
madam president, commissioner, we are talking about digitalisation, teleworking, the ecological transition and mobility.
first, of course, there are the environmental challenges, especially climate change.
madam president, our ecological impact on the one hand and the precariousness and exclusion on the other are two time bombs whose explosion would be fatal to our societies.
we must also suspend the stability pact until 2023 and make a more realistic sustainable development pact.
in 1995, we were warned that the risk of a pandemic was significantly increased by globalization, urbanization and exploitation of the natural environment.
you also indicated your choice to commit the ecb to integrating ecological criteria, including the fight against climate change, into its operations.
we have again managed to make it clear in this report that the ecb, within the framework of its mandate, should do what it can to take climate risks into account in its operations.
the big ratings agencies that you rely on to do that, they continue to give very good ratings to companies that are bad for the climate -- chevron, shell, exxon, total -- and based on that, banks can get fresh money from you.
therefore, our request is very clear: stop relying unilaterally on this oligopoly and its ignorance of climate protection, and ensure that long-term climate risks are fully taken into account in your refinancing operations, as well as in banking supervision.
you also see climate as part of your mandate, see the green bonds.
i have already humbly proposed this and it has been authoritatively reiterated by over 100 eminent european economists in a letter: we are cancelling the public debt held by the ecb and thus providing the european states with the means to rebuild their economies in a sustainable and inclusive way.
mr president, thank you very much, president lagarde, for referring to the ecb strategy review and also by including climate change in that.
but i would like to pick up where you said that you are going to look at sustainability considerations, how they can also be reflected in the monetary policy instruments, as you said, and i would like to pick on that a bit, because i would almost say: what is still the discussion?
and as we see more and more studies, climate change is affecting price stability, so you need to do something about price stability.
furthermore, by continuing the current asset purchasing programmes, you are supporting the past – the fossil past – and you’re going against climate neutrality, which has a very clear democratic mandate that we have to work towards.
so my question is very simple: are you going to stop buying bonds that perpetuate carbon-intense economic activities?
mr president, mr vice-president, mrs lagarde, ladies and gentlemen, the ecb holds almost eur 3.8 trillion in assets from the various debt buy-back programmes which are powerful props to the carbon economy.
to meet the challenges of the moment, your action should ultimately promote more european jobs and less carbon.
whole sectors of the real economy are waiting for this to be achieved in order to try and build the european union of tomorrow: more territorialised, more just, more ecological.
you recently announced the creation of a centre of expertise on climate change within your institution.
the question is therefore, to paraphrase your conversation yesterday, when will you finally bring your role into line with the eu's climate roadmap?
the ecological, social and economic crises are intertwined.
part of the public debt should be cancelled in favour of financing the ecological transition.
in the name of market neutrality, you continue to finance climate-destroying activities, including fossil fuels, through your purchasing programmes.
let us be bold and integrate climate protection into the ecb's mandate.
this is an urgent need to protect the banks themselves from the prudential and therefore social risks posed by climate change.
if you don't take care of the climate, the climate will catch up with you.
carbon neutrality must now guide all your actions.
the reality is that there is currently not enough demand on the market for secondary raw materials produced from waste.
despite the displeasure of some, the market economy can be a great opportunity to make a successful ecological transition.
mr president, today's debate is on the european skills strategy for sustainable competitiveness, social equity and resilience.
we need a revolution in our way of producing, due to the need to adapt to climate change.
in this regard, adequate, sustainable, fair and inclusive social protection systems play a crucial role.
communism distorts the environment and makes the gap between the working people and the non-working people, who are actively controlling the politics, much wider.
there is a need to promote entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, to contribute to innovation, to create a competitive and sustainable labour market.
we must also put a strong push for an ambitious strategy for a healthy and safe and secure working environment for all.
you use crazy energy to write your dreams while your globalist policies are our nightmare.
finally, i commit to follow up the tartu call for a healthy lifestyle launched in 2017. the new initiative, healthy lifestyle for all, will focus on cross-sectoral cooperation.today more than ever, we also need to link sport with health, the environment, innovation, youth, skills.
we are calling for measures to be taken for education to the extent of 10% of the national recovery plans, measures to facilitate young people's access to sustainable and fairly paid jobs.
more seriously, ladies and gentlemen, this plan will enable us to improve the energy performance of our buildings and thus reduce pollution.
fourth, an insane obligation to devote at least 60% of the amounts for each project to climate and digital.
however, we must not forget that this crisis is systemic and of ecological origin.
it is the result of the damage to biodiversity, which is the great sacrifice of this agreement.
and we still have no guarantee that the climate funds that have not been raised will not undermine the transition.
according to the high council for climate, in france, for example, two-thirds of the french stimulus plan will revive the economy of the past.
madam president, mr borrell, we are again talking about russia and about tense, difficult relations with the european union, which are far from what we would wish for given our common european identity and the intense economic and energy exchanges.
madam president, belarus is free to develop its energy policy of its own choice, this is one of the attributes of its sovereignty, like other states.
it also ought to do so, since the advocates of nuclear energy, that is to say of energy independence, are now faced with pressing lobbies which would like to bring it down.
but i would like to warn our european partners: poland wants to build six nuclear power stations by 2043, and i would not like this resolution to call into question the principle of the energy independence of a number of our countries.
the resolution, in my view, is therefore premature and contrary to the interests of many states, given their energy mix.
it also conceals, let us be clear, a desire to call into question the choice of nuclear energy by this country, and i would remind you that if rusatom built this plant, it was because european producers refused to intervene.
moreover, if the real concern of our institution is to impose democratic conditions on the establishment of the european energy mix, it must be comprehensive.
the facts are clear: first, nuclear power is not the best technology to deal with climate change.
secondly, nuclear power is not adapted to the consequences of this same climate change, since the reactor cooling systems show their limits during hot weather.
finally, nuclear energy is hampering the deployment of renewable alternatives because it threatens to freeze huge investments.
ladies and gentlemen, a 100% renewable europe is possible, let us plan for it now.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the carbon adjustment mechanism at the border.
it is a key element in the arsenal we have to fight climate change.
this is a key element because we are going to reform the carbon market, it is planned for june.
the price of carbon is now 40 euros per tonne of co2, which is already a historic level, and we are aiming for 50 euros, maybe even 60 euros per tonne of co2.
i cannot go to the steelworks of arcelormittal in dunkirk in northern france and say: you will lose markets because the indians or the turks will export without paying the price of carbon to the european union.
i cannot go to poland and tell the workers of a cement factory: now your job is over because in belarus or ukraine we will produce the cement we need, and they will pay zero euro for carbon.
this means a very simple method, a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that is the mirror of the european carbon market.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not climate protection is no longer a european task, and has long since ceased to be.
climate change can only be achieved globally, and everyone should be aware of this.
to curb global co2 emissions, we need a fundamental change, and the carbon cap mechanism - cbam - is a very important part of that.
the current european emissions trading scheme (ets) has made a lower contribution than expected.
under the paris climate agreement, we're supposed to hit the reset button, but with ets in its current form, it's not even the pause button!
so we need a basic approach, and cbam gives us the opportunity to do that right here, based on a life cycle analysis that gives a more accurate picture of the ecological footprint.
the revenue from the new mechanism should be used for climate action both inside and outside the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's climate policies are facing a major dead end.
our climate targets only take into account our territorial emissions.
our imported emissions, as well as those from international trade, are completely ignored.
the creation of a carbon border adjustment mechanism is therefore justified.
it could be a first step towards the establishment of the ecological protectionism and solidarity that is so necessary today.
but the mechanism proposed here is based on a very bad idea: the extension of the european union's carbon market, whose inefficiency has been demonstrated on many occasions, including by the european court of auditors.
the carbon market must be replaced by a sectoral climate policy and long-term financing.
binding greenhouse gas reduction targets must be planned for each industrial sector, incorporating of course imported emissions.
the logic of markets must be replaced by social and ecological taxation at the borders of the european union.
moreover, to be effective, such a mechanism must include emissions from the transport of goods, which is not the case here.
contrary to what was planned, it must cover all imports, in particular agricultural imports, which are largely responsible for the eu's ecological footprint.
because in the face of the climate emergency, market logic is not part of the solution, but part of the problem.
the carbon cap system was on the agenda of most of our 2019 campaigns, and that's a good thing.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
it is not in the interest of climate neutrality to shift production to third countries.
therefore, it is a top priority for me that cbam and the existing free allocations under the eu ets of the eu run parallel in our path to climate neutrality for the time being.
such an approach could effectively and intensively counter carbon leakage.
such an approach would give our european climate policy a global edge.
and doing that would bring us a good deal closer to climate neutrality.
mr president, although the eu has taken action to reduce its own climate emissions in the last decades, unfortunately the same cannot be said about the climate emissions that are imported into this union.
in fact, the union is the world’s largest carbon importer, with a net import of goods and services in the eu representing more than a fifth of the union’s domestic co2 emissions.
obviously, this undermines the important work that we are doing to reduce our own emissions.
the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, also known as the cbam, can be a valuable addition to the efforts to reduce emissions and at the same time ensure that the responsibility to halt climate change is shared by all the actors.
this is about europe showing leadership and doing what’s right, both for the climate as well as for the transition to a climate-neutral and more sustainable future.
if we do this right, the cbam can be a great asset, both for the climate as well as for the economic incentive to develop production methods with lower co2 emissions and a smaller greenhouse gas footprint.
for the s&d group, it’s of central importance that the cbam does not overlap with the existing provision of free allocation of emission allowances under the union’s emissions trading system.
it would be unjustified from a climate perspective, but also actually detrimental to innovation and technological development in europe, if we were to create a double support.
a few years ago, many people laughed at those who wanted to charge for the import of ultra-carbon products.
commissioner, with this vote we are demanding nothing more or less than the end of climate dumping.
mr president, commissioner, the european union wants to be the laboratory for testing the environmental agenda.
the proof of this is its willingness to impose a global price on carbon, even though it accounts for less than 10% of emissions.
the figures speak for themselves: the climate neutrality target for 2050 could lead to a 23% increase in carbon leakage in france.
however, this carbon adjustment mechanism at the border has to pass a double test.
first, technical, through the reform of the carbon market and the calculation of the carbon footprint of imported products; and then legal, through the wto agreement.
but when we declare a climate emergency, we pay little attention to these rules, which are very circumvented.
on the contrary, we must reform them and bring them into line with climate criteria while supporting the relocation of our industries.
finally, to be sustainable, the mechanism must not be used to finance the energy transition in developing countries or to constitute a new federalist instrument.
mr president, commissioner, 25 billion euros is the profit made by polluting companies in europe simply by reselling the carbon allowances they now receive for free.
pollution is no longer just allowed, it is profitable.
and the consumer is still drinking because he is already paying the bill, while his health and environment are not protected.
and the added burden is only increasing at the expense of the climate, our health and our environment.
we are calling for an end to the polluting rights which are now being distributed free of charge via the european carbon market.
co2 emissions must be paid for at the price they really cost, i.e.
a price that takes into account the impact of pollution on our planet, on the air we breathe.
nor must they be the only ones paying the true price of carbon.
it is simple, we propose that imports be taxed at the same carbon price as our european industries; those coming from china, mr hansen, as elsewhere.
it is to impose environmental standards on all countries that wish to import into europe, which protect the whole climate; it is to encourage and accelerate the transformation of the most polluting industries, throughout europe and elsewhere.
this is what a post-carbon society is.
every time we are saying the best method is putting a price on pollution, then you can reduce the pollution levels.
it’s fairer and secondly, it’s also providing an incentive for our global partners to reduce their emissions, and that’s how it should be done.
so please look at this in a broad way so that we can have a fair system where not only european partners are paying for the pollution but also our global partners, for a fair market.
madam president, for many months during the european elections campaign, we have been advocating relentlessly, together with my colleagues françois-xavier bellamy and nathalie colin-oesterlé, the creation of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders.
we have defended it with conviction because we are absolutely convinced that the ecological transition must be as fair as possible to be achievable.
but who is behind the ever-increasing environmental standards we are voting for here in this institution?
it is at the heart of the green deal and will be an additional tool in our climate diplomacy.
europe is set to be a climate-neutral continent by 2050. this is a major challenge, especially for energy-intensive industries such as the steel industry.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally friendly production of energy from renewable sources.
the key point is to prevent carbon leakage.
for example, cheaper imports of steel with higher co2 content cannot displace more expensive domestic steel products with lower co2 emissions.
to do this, we need a carbon border adjustment that creates a level playing field and ensures that large-scale industrial investments to switch to climate-neutral production do not become a competitive disadvantage.
only when an effective carbon border adjustment is in place can these allowances be gradually reduced.
the eu has been the first in the world to set up an emissions trading system, and we can be quite proud of that.
this defensive strategy is not sustainable.
it is time for an aggressive and assertive climate policy.
we're creating a level playing field for our companies, we're cutting the billions in free emissions allowances, and we're putting more money into european and international climate finance.
that is a win on three fronts and it allows europe to really make a real job of an ambitious climate policy.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, dear colleagues, as we will be voting for the wto-compatible eu carbon border adjustment mechanism report, it is important to remember that the establishment of this mechanism is a crucial part of the green deal and among the priorities of the von der leyen commission.
cbam could be used as a blueprint for a level playing field between eu domestic and foreign producers in specific segments of our industry, which face unfair competition from third countries, especially regarding compliance with environmental criteria and climate objectives.
we must ensure that the implementation of the carbon border adjustment mechanism will not undermine european industry capacity, yet that it will also not overlap with existing mechanisms and will be compatible with the wto.
the european parliament should send a clear message that the commission should come forward with its proposal for the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
otherwise, we will not only risk compromising our industry, but also our role as global pioneers in the green deal transition and in tackling climate change.
i have to say, madam president, in order to reach our goal of climate neutrality by 2050, we need to look at all the tools in our toolbox, both new and old.
this is the kind of carbon leakage we need to stop.
madam president, europe not only has the obligation to lead the world in implementing the paris agreement and this process of decarbonisation, it also has the obligation to drag the rest of the world into this process: it must be remembered that in europe alone we generate 8% of emissions and, of course, we share the ozone layer.
to do that, let's use one of our tools, our market, and introduce a carbon border adjustment that allows the rest of the planet to be dragged along, but, at the same time, let's introduce negative environmental externalities into the price of products, making these incentives and disincentives work in our favor to combat climate change.
and not only that, we also protect our industry, which is not caught up in unfair environmental competition with foreign imports.
for the sake of our industry, for the sake of our planet, this report will take a step towards putting in place the carbon border adjustment that europe needs.
the impact of the coronavirus pandemic is a strain on our businesses, and at the same time, of course, our ambitious climate targets are putting more pressure on domestic industry.
carbon leakage is a very real threat until other economic regions reach a level of climate protection comparable to that of the european union.
other economic regions will respond if we introduce carbon border adjustment mechanisms.
we must work globally for an international emissions trading system and thus achieve a fair price.
i think we really must not question our established mechanisms; we need to engage with other economic regions of the world and engage in climate diplomacy.
for example, we in europe import the most carbon dioxide in the world.
no matter how well we succeed in reducing our emissions at home, we still have emissions in the rest of the world that we cause through our consumption.
secondly, it is extremely positive that we are now taking a step towards a climate tax on imported goods.
it's the missing piece of the puzzle in our climate work.
it is a tool that can provide competitive advantages for european companies that have an ambitious approach to their climate work, but also an extended incentive to other parts of the world usa, china, brazil.
an incentive to expand their climate policy so they don't have to pay the climate taxes.
madam president, the eu, and particularly this house, have been very active and ambitious in terms of climate change action, and we have already substantially reduced our domestic greenhouse gas emissions.
however, emissions from imports have been rising, which affects any effort we make to reduce our global ghg footprint.
most countries claim to have a serious plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but the eu actually has one: a one trillion euro european green deal that aims to make us carbon neutral by 2050. this brings us to the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism at our external borders.
european leadership in climate action – leadership that benefits citizens across the globe – should not be to the detriment of our competitiveness.
the cbam seeks to protect european companies from unfair competition from non-european climate polluters who operate in countries with less stringent standards.
however, the transition must not destabilise our economy by reducing our competitiveness, leading to carbon leakage.
we have business partners who refuse to abide by those environmental protection rules that we have continued to abide by, despite the severe crisis caused by the pandemic.
today the world's largest steel producer, china, increased its steel market share by another 6% in the year 2020. europe has lost 17% of its share and meanwhile carbon quotas cost from 22 euros a tonne a year and a half ago to 40 euros today and in a year, a year and a half, they will go to 60 euros.
it is correct to call this an environmental protection measure, but it is correct to consider that we are losing hundreds of thousands of jobs.
however, we have a responsibility to the weakest and we must reiterate to the weakest that europe is the continent that produces best and with the best environmental performance.
– madam president, i think this debate is encouraging because of the large convergence on the need for the instrument we are discussing: the cbam is absolutely needed to promote the climate transition to avoid carbon leakage and to support, of course, competitiveness and jobs.
it was completely unthinkable to have some of the main trade powers discussing a carbon border mechanism or carbon tax or other things, and in this global debate the european union has the advantage of the early movers, which is the advantage of trying to give a contribution to set new standards.
i think that we will give this contribution and this will help us on this historic challenge of the climate transition.
we all have a common interest in making europe's climate policy more effective, in promoting the green transition and in avoiding the risk of coal leakage.
the mechanism for adjusting co2 emissions at the border can be useful in achieving these objectives.
it is also essential that the new mechanism is developed in the form of a structure that operates in parallel with the eu emissions trading system, complementing and strengthening existing instruments.
the eu has set itself rigorous targets to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. emissions leakage, i.e.
the shifting of production and therefore co2 emissions beyond the eu's borders to countries with less stringent regulations, would defeat these objectives and therefore not reduce global co2 emissions.
in addition, the implementation of a cbam would put significant pressure on our non-eu partners to implement more ambitious climate policies.
their suppliers can happily violate human rights or destroy the environment without being held accountable to anyone.
with the duty of vigilance we are voting today, we want to put an end to this organised crime which exploits people and the environment.
but it is already a great victory for human rights and the environment.
mr president, we know from research, but also from experience, that respect for human rights and minimum environmental standards are still very often trampled underfoot in our production processes and in our value chains.
some european companies, on the other hand, continue to invest in fossil fuels or dangerous pesticides, to the detriment of the climate, biodiversity, our health and the safety of the planet.
the establishment of the duty of vigilance is a reminder of a simple truth: we cannot produce anything, in any way, whatever the human, social and environmental cost.
today, these population movements are transforming the environment, as is the shift from the countryside to the cities, for example.
we are in favour of clear noise standards, environmental protection and above all the safety of the 18 million workers involved in the construction of europe.
lastly, a target of 30% of climate-related expenditure objectively seems to me unrealistic in the present times and difficult to quantify.
i also noted that at least 60% of the total volume of financing operations for climate objectives will have to be carried out in sustainable infrastructure, which seems to me to be discriminatory for many projects.
our group also argued for its vision of global health within an ecosystem of environmental protection and well-being to be defended in all european policies: labour, agriculture, transport.
on the one hand, the effectiveness of control must be strengthened to ensure sustainable management, but on the other hand, the economic competitiveness of the sector must be maintained.
it is not without our fishermen or against them that we will protect this invaluable heritage and biodiversity, but with all the professionals of the sea and all the due respect for them.
but, commissioner, we are talking about legal fishing in european fisheries, which today complies with the most stringent environmental standards in the world.
and it seems to me that fighting illegal fishing is exactly what we expect from the commission, that it really engages in a tug of war with countries like pakistan, like iran, like sri lanka, which still use driftnets that destroy biodiversity, that it engages in a tug of war with china, with india, european fishing in these waters of the indian ocean is 30% of the total fishing.
we will not succeed in preserving marine biodiversity, and that is our objective, by weakening european fisheries.
if you want more coordination within the european union, stop trying to force the hand of the states at all costs and instead devote your energy to proving your efficiency.
because now, more than ever, a new budgetary pact for social progress and the fight against climate change is needed.
no more delays, no more blackmail, no more opaque contracts, no more time to waste.
the european green deal must indeed initiate the ecological transition, but this transition must be a transition of solidarity or it will fail.
only if we combine economic sustainability and environmental sustainability, but also social sustainability, if we combine these three paths, will we value what we are: the europe of human rights, the continent of peace, the europe of solidarity, respect and equality.
we need to invest in sustainable jobs, good social protection and social services.
it seeks to answer the six questions put to the commission concerning: national plans to implement the objectives set by the strategy; support for an inclusive and holistic approach that focuses in particular on the most vulnerable children; ensuring the participation of children as agents of change; the obligation of member states to provide adequate funding and, of course, the support of the commission; the mandatory link to the sustainable development goals and the united nations 2030 agenda; and taking into account the impact of the covid-19 pandemic, which has only exacerbated inequalities across the european union and in the member states.
to answer, your fifth question, the strategy will be fully anchored in the european union charter of fundamental rights, in the european union convention on the rights of the child and it will also contribute to the sustainable development goals.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the european year of the environment, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
this looting organized at our doorsteps is the amount of money that is missing from our state coffers to finance our hospitals, the ecological bifurcation or to support people in poverty.
the un warns us: we cannot miss the opportunity of these recovery plans to save the climate.
so let's be serious and demand that at least 50% of these stimulus plans be devoted to climate: the minimum to finance the green deal, according to the european commission's estimates.
so let us be firm and demand that any climate-destroying projects such as airports, fossil fuels or nuclear power be excluded from these recovery plans.
national recovery and resilience plans must include real reforms, discussed openly and transparently with social partners, civil society, local authorities and parliamentary parties in order to provide a sustainable and coherent response to the current crisis.
these plans must be discussed in parliament and must provide a set of solutions for economic recovery, social resilience building, as well as digital and environmental transformations.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
in this context, china opposes any form of cooperation with the african union and african countries on access to raw materials, exploitation of new markets, human rights and environmental and climate issues.
it is a smart resource that combines environmental protection, european policy and funding; and it's a win because own resources is a marker.
june will also be the month of the border carbon adjustment mechanism and the carbon market review.
they expect the union to protect them, to protect the environment, to bring about fiscal justice, to soothe relations between our states, and more.
second, the unprecedented complexity of the carbon adjustment mechanism at the border risks undermining its effectiveness.
madam president, although it is difficult to estimate the number, air pollution causes a significant number of deaths each year.
it also seriously damages the environment and the agricultural and forestry sectors.
there are positive aspects to this report, such as the sharing of data across the european union, the creation of new indicators and the inclusion of pollution from maritime transport.
beyond health, this collective resilience will need to be based on the transition to a green economy, the fight against climate change, the production of renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and the protection of biodiversity.
the stakes are enormous, let's face it, because the waste is added to the climate.
of this waste, 80 percent comes from earth, whose waters already carry chemical pollution.
the environment is affected, as are fisheries resources, but also the activities of fishermen and aquaculture farmers, as they have to deal with the waste that is collected in the nets or that gets entangled in the propellers.
there is one figure that we are sure of: on beaches, 27% of the waste containing plastic comes from fishing gear or aquaculture.
but i have not been able to add this information to my report in plenary so far, as if this pollution did not exist.
secondly, to integrate the link between land and sea much more into european policies, especially in waste management and water management.
finally, a very broad action plan must be launched to tackle the problem of waste and collect it in the areas of accumulation, partly in streams and rivers.
it investigated cases of corruption, in particular in the field of large public tenders for energy.
in november 2020, the former minister of energy refused to answer more than 100 questions in the public inquiry.
the rapid expansion of artificial surfaces is the exact opposite of sustainability.
secondly, for both our forests and our agriculture, our first objective must be to preserve and restore living soils, for reasons of biodiversity, climate, productivity and sustainability.
third, the good agricultural practices permanent grassland, soil cover or carbon storage that are well known and already applied in many territories need to be identified, encouraged and rewarded, either by the market or by public agricultural policies.
soil is the work platform of those who cultivate and care for our land, and who are the first to be concerned with its sustainability.
contributing to the development and subsistence of small-scale fisheries also has a purely ecological function in terms of environmental sustainability and conservation of water and fish resources.
this transition from a recovery to a management plan is, however, not a step back towards an unregulated fishery, but rather as a logical transition from emergency measures towards a more coherent and sustainable long-term management framework for this resource.
in this context, the transposition of the iccat management plan into eu legislation is necessary to allow the operators, and in particular small-scale fishermen, to enjoy more flexibility on accessing the resources while at the same time strengthening control measures to guarantee the sustainability of the resource and of the fisheries exploiting this resource.
why do they not respond to a historic demand and refuse to accept that transparent and objective criteria, including environmental, social and economic criteria, are used and that equitable national quotas are distributed among the different segments of the fleet, with special attention to traditional and artisanal fishing?
this plan provided for the promotion of the use of selective fishing gear and techniques with a reduced impact on the environment, such as traditional and artisanal fishing.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on international trade on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement on trade and cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, of the other part, and of the agreement between the european union and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland on security procedures for exchanging and protecting classified information (05022/2021 - c9-0086/2021 - 2020/0382rsnle)) the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the negotiations between the european union and the united kingdom (2021/2658p)
president-in-office of the council.
and it ensures high levels of protection on everything, from social and labour rights to environmental protection, from tax transparency to state aid – you name it.
(applause) * * * commission statement on the role of the european parliament in the implementation of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement(in writing) [articles of the tca have been updated to the new consecutive numbering retained in the authenticated versions of the tca] the commission, without prejudice to its own prerogatives and those of the council, intends to give full effect to the european parliament’s prerogatives according to the treaties in the implementation of the trade and cooperation agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, of the other part (the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement).
in addition, as regards the selection process leading up to the establishment of lists of potential arbitrators and panellists by the partnership council and the trade specialised committee on level playing field for open and fair competition and sustainable development, pursuant to respectively articles 752 [lists of arbitrators] and 409 [panel of experts] of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement the european parliament will be invited to nominate one of the members of the selection panel established by the commission in order to assist the commission in the selection of candidates to be proposed to the council.
that is why we have always looked at this difficult, sometimes very difficult negotiation in perspective, beyond the economic situation, the sustainable perspective of the future and of our relationship.
it has been, ladies and gentlemen, be assured, a real privilege for me and for the european commission team to work with you, with each and every one of your groups, whatever your sensibilities, throughout these years, a privilege to work in a climate of trust, mutual respect and often, i believe, friendship between us.
the reality is different: part of the british territory, northern ireland, remains within the customs union and the internal market of the european union; gibraltar will join the schengen area on the basis of the principle of an agreement between spain and the united kingdom, and it will be madrid that ensures that the schengen rules are applied in the colony; london will face penalties in the event of unfair competition in the tax, labour and environmental fields; and british fishermen claim to be the big losers of the agreement.
joint debt issuance to tackle pandemic debt, our global leadership in the battle against climate change, the pillar of social rights, etc.
from the very beginning, we have made it clear that citizens' rights, labour and social standards, environmental standards and consumer protection need to be central, not only in this trade and cooperation agreement (tca) but in every european trade agreement.
we would prefer stronger enforcement mechanisms in the tca, but we are pleased that parliament understood the importance of workers' rights and environmental standards.
we look forward to continued friendship with the british labour movement, with the social and environmental movements and with the millions of british citizens in building and improving our common european home.
but one thing must be clear: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
but let’s be clear: an ambitious zero tariff and zero-quota trade agreement like this can only happen on condition that at the same time there is zero social, environmental, fiscal and regulatory dumping.
therefore we will be extremely attentive to the implementation of the provisions that ensure there is no regression and no divergences over time in social and environmental protection standards.
we must not leave these people in the cold and with the agreement now in place - thanks in part to the strong pressure from the european parliament - social protection, good working conditions, environmental standards and consumer protection are better embedded in our relationship with the uk.
the reduction of fishing opportunities for europeans by 25% will be a blow to fishermen, but i would like to remind member states that they have in their hands article 17 of the common fisheries policy, which allows them to allocate these fishing opportunities according to social and environmental criteria.
the announcement by the british government that it will deregulate gmos without any agreement, without risk controls, without labelling, and without regard to european regulations that protect consumers and the environment, should be a wake-up call.
it would also lead to a lower environmental impact and a more competitive global position of the union.
the promotion of rural destinations and local initiatives, the exploitation of the ecological heritage, and investment in infrastructure are essential to the recovery of european tourism.
i welcome the commission's intention to evaluate the results of this system and to make it sustainable, perhaps in the context of a permanent instrument, but the skills shortage must also be addressed.
we know that the recovery of the tourist ecosystem will take some time, of course, but it is clear that the tourism of tomorrow will not be the tourism we have known - some have rightly said so and i agree.
it will be more sustainable, more digital and will obviously reflect the new needs of our fellow citizens.
we need to support the ecosystem in the transformations that will accelerate.
you can of course count on my full commitment to support the ecosystem and prepare for its future.
we are all talking about the measures needed in the short term, but also about the necessary reflection and measures in the medium and long term that can create a more sustainable tourism sector with higher quality jobs and accompanying the green and digital transitions.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the union space programme and the european union space agency and repealing regulations (eu) no 912/2010, (eu) no 1285/2013 and (eu) no 377/2014 and decision no 541/2014/eu (14312/1/2020 c9-0140/2021 2018/0236 ((cod)) (rapporteur: massimiliano salini) (a9-0141/2021).
copernicus provides us with earth observation data that can help us measure climate change and improve disaster prevention.
mr president, the european space programme and the creation of the european agency will enable the union in particular and humanity in general to be equipped with the essential tools to better understand and protect the planet on which it lives, to safeguard biodiversity, to combat climate change and to participate in global networks for the exploitation and management of space for the common good.
clear rules have been secured for international cooperation and for meeting commitments to the climate agenda and to the promotion of biodiversity.
our copernicus observation satellite: a new generation is coming to monitor co2 emissions to meet the objectives of the green deal.
without china global challenges cannot be addressed effectively, from tackling climate change and the pandemic to the coup in myanmar, the iran nuclear deal and the global balance of power.
we know the digital environment offers easy ways to radicalise and we know it plays an important role in recruitment in terrorist training and in dissemination of terrorist ideas.
in some eu countries, government officials and senior officials have described minor damage to property by environmental activists as an act of terrorism.
child poverty is a critical issue that we must commit to addressing with energy and urgency.
the fight against child poverty must focus on new and sustainable solutions, solutions that bring together public and private partners.
why mention the european minimum wage directive or the sustainable development goals?
the second risk is the waste of funds.
here, commissioner, you will have the full support of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
the agenda includes the report by mr christophe grudler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a european strategy for the integration of energy systems (a9-0062/2021) and the report by mr jens geier, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a european strategy for hydrogen (a9-00116/2021).
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present this own-initiative report by the committee on industry, research and energy on the integration of energy systems.
this report does not paint an imagined or imaginary picture of our energy system of the future; it presents trends that are already under way throughout europe and the world.
first, the european union narrowly missed the target of 20% renewable energy in its energy mix and failed to achieve its energy efficiency target.
finally, the threat of cyberattacks on energy infrastructure has become very real: they recently hit, for example, one of the main oil pipelines in the united states and paralysed the supply of the east of the country.
at the same time, remarkable and structural changes have been initiated in our energy production and consumption.
solar energy has become the cheapest in the world and its production increased by 20% in europe in 2020. the price of carbon has started to rise exponentially since the end of 2020, and today it is €56 per tonne of co2.
all these figures show that the energy transition is under way in europe.
we now know what our energy mix will be in the next few years and we have to ask ourselves new questions.
how can we adapt our infrastructure to the new renewable energy, which is highly variable and which increases the pressure on our grids?
how far can we adapt our energy demands by making them more flexible?
what are the benefits of making our energy consumption more circular?
finally, can we effectively and quickly tackle energy waste and emissions from our buildings and transport, without excluding the most vulnerable citizens from the green and digital transition?
it also shows a real awareness within the european parliament that, while we still have differences of opinion, we all have the will to make the transition to climate neutrality a reality, and we are aware of the challenges it poses.
our report recognises the fundamental role of the internal energy market and interconnections at all levels in balancing our networks, especially the electricity networks.
it highlights the extraordinary opportunities our continent offers for producing more renewable energy, and the solutions that have not yet been fully exploited, which must allow, as of today, a better integration of these renewable energies.
finally, it recognises that to ensure our energy supply and energy independence, we need to work together more closely to innovate faster and to bring european technologies to the forefront of markets, whether for energy storage, conversion, transport or reuse.
it is for me the missing piece in the establishment of a true energy union, a manifesto, in short, of what we have done since the early hours of the common energy market and of where we are now heading.
a famous french politician, georges clemenceau, said: you have to know what you want, then you have to have the courage to say it and write it, and finally you have to have the energy to do it.
so, colleagues, together we will have all the energy we need to achieve this.
– madam president, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this session today on the hydrogen and energy system integration own—initiative reports.
these two reports and these two strategies were the first documents adopted by the commission in the energy field and they establish the framework and the direction for transforming our energy system and ensuring a balanced and cost-effective path towards climate neutrality.
the commission is currently preparing the ‘fit for 55’ package – a revision of the energy efficiency and renewable energy directives that will translate into concrete measures.
let me start with energy system integration.
the strategy is about going beyond the established vision of the energy sector as isolated systems and imagining the new energy system of tomorrow.
second, it is about integrating a large and growing share of renewable energy and promoting electrification.
third, it is about promoting the use of renewable gases and fuels, where electrification is not possible or is too costly.
an integrated energy system needs to be based on well-functioning markets, modern infrastructure and on a higher level of digitisation.
it is the precondition for the deployment of renewable gases, of which both our strategy and our report stress the importance.
in this context, we welcome the support for developing a comprehensive classification and certification framework for renewable gases, based on the full lifecycle of greenhouse gas emissions savings and sustainability criteria.
at the same time, we take note of parliament’s request that the additionality requirement for renewable hydrogen be extended beyond its use in transport to cover all renewable hydrogen.
this will be assessed as part of the revision of both the alternative fuels infrastructure directive and the renewable energy directive in july.
finally, we have also taken into due consideration the report’s proposals on the energy efficiency first principle.
however, we recognise the role that low—carbon hydrogen can play in a transition period.
the parliament’s report encourages us to go ahead in designing the rules for a truly european hydrogen market, which we will do through a revision of the renewable energy directive and the hydrogen and gas markets decarbonisation initiative.
finally, let me say that while the focus is on building a hydrogen ecosystem in europe, we need to consider the international dimension as well.
hydrogen has huge potential: in industry - especially in energy-intensive industries - as a source of energy, in transport - especially heavy commercial vehicles - in aviation and shipping, and also for heating buildings.
if i am talking about hydrogen, then of course the medium to long term objective must be renewable hydrogen.
but for a transition period, we also urgently need low-carbon hydrogen.
i therefore welcome the fact that the report by mr jens geier, whom i thank for his draft, clearly states that we cannot do without low-carbon hydrogen during the transition period.
our electrolysis technology opens up export opportunities, we decarbonize sectors like steelmaking and the chemical industry, and international hydrogen cooperation creates opportunities for our energy supply.
the european commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environment and to improve the quality of life.
we have an integrated energy market and an existing pipeline network, we can remove and store co2, and our transport is fast and cheap.
while the hydrogen strategy should rather encourage the massive and coordinated development of hydrogen produced entirely from renewable energy sources, and thus massively and very rapidly develop renewable energy sources in the first place, this parliament is about to adopt a resolution which gives the green light to hydrogen produced from fossil gas and nuclear energy.
there are climate issues and strong choices we should be making today.
the lobbyists, who defend private interests, or the young people, who mobilize for the climate?
how can we believe or make people believe that continuing to support and finance fossil fuels, major emitters of greenhouse gases, or nuclear energy, over which we have no control, neither over safety nor over waste, will enable us to meet our climate and environmental commitments?
how can we expect this to protect biodiversity, which is essential if we are to avoid new pandemics and combat climate change?
the only sustainable solution for decarbonising our industry and for the implementation of a 100% green energy package is green hydrogen, produced from 100% renewable energy.
this energy vector can be used, for example, in the steel industry or to ensure the stability of an electricity grid based on 100% renewable energy.
we must be aware that a strategy compatible with our climate objectives can only be based on the development of green hydrogen, i.e.
produced by electrolysis of water from renewable electricity.
renewable energy and water are not endless resources.
after the greenhouse effect, europe's energy security and security of supply must be maintained, which is why europe needs a comprehensive energy strategy covering all energy technologies.
hydrogen can be used to store variable renewable energy with high recovery capacity and to transport it in large volumes, as the capacity of pipelines is 10 times higher than that of cable connections.
hydrogen technologies will not solve all energy problems, but if developed wisely, they will provide a significant part of the content of the clean energy portfolio of the future.
we are faced with a huge sustainability challenge, which my beloved transport sector is also facing.
first of all, we need the right energy mix, with green and blue hydrogen playing a very important role.
madam president, hydrogen is a central element of our green deal in order to achieve our zero-carbon economy by 2050. it is also important in order to decarbonise our industry.
it is not a silver bullet for the decarbonisation of our energy mix, but it is the energy carrier that we have to invest more heavily in.
emphasis should be given to hydrogen from renewable sources and that additional renewable energy demand from hydrogen will have to be taken into account in the future deployment of clean power generation capacity.
however, the role that low-carbon hydrogen will have in the initial phase to scale-up production is important in order finally to increase the percentage of the production of greek hydrogen until we are able to cover our needs with 100% green hydrogen.
in this regard, we have to take on board all the appropriate technologies, including carbon capture and storage (ccs) and carbon capture and utilisation (ccu), and at the same time we have to provide security to our citizens by addressing their concerns with responsibility.
let me insist on one important point: these two strategies are important milestones on our path towards a climate-neutral society because they point to different ways in which we can achieve this objective in a cost-effective way.
we must design a clean energy transition that is balanced, affordable and compatible with our competitiveness objectives.
on the one hand, an integrated energy system will reap the benefits of circularity, greater efficiency, more electrification and more renewable fuels as a part of the net zero vision.
i’m happy that your report agrees with our emphasis on hydrogen as an opportunity to collaborate with countries in our neighbourhood, promoting their economic and energy diversification and developing alternative export opportunities to those that come from the fossil fuel sector.
the two strategies set out challenging but achievable targets and objectives and i truly believe that together we can take up these challenges and make europe a cleaner place and a global leader in clean energy technologies.
hydrogen produced from renewable sources is of great importance for achieving climate neutrality.
it has a high potential to facilitate the decarbonisation of difficult to decarbonise and energy-intensive industrial sectors such as the steel sector.
secondly, they request that low-carbon hydrogen production technologies (such as ccs-based blue hydrogen) be developed and publicly supported.
it is important that imported low-emission hydrogen is covered by the certification process so that imported hydrogen meets similar high environmental standards as that produced in the eu.
it is europe’s ambition to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050. this is a top priority for our continent.
jtf is a key tool to ensure that the transition towards a climate neutral economy happens in a fair way, leaving no one behind.
they require investment for structural changes in energy support, supply and demand.
countries can spend their own jtf money in areas such as clean energy, training workers and assistance for job seekers, but they cannot spend jtf money to support any investment linked to fossil fuel, including natural gas.
the european commission announced the main elements of the compromise: the budgetary commitment for 2021—23, the voluntary transfers from the european regional and development fund and european social fund plus in a voluntary base, the broadening of the scope to address the social aspect of the transition, the exclusion of fossil fuel financing, the reward mechanism linked to the reduction of greenhouse gas emission, and not to forget the islands and the outermost regions which should be taken into account by the member states.
the green deal and its social aspect, the just transition fund, are the best examples that can inspire the whole world for the paris agreement and climate change.
if we are to succeed in tackling climate change, we will have to increase the number of tools that can reconcile climate change, employment and social issues.
madam president, as part of the green deal for europe, the just transition fund aims to support climate neutrality by avoiding the social disasters linked to the energy transition in the regions that emit the most co2, especially those that exploit coal.
as france is one of the most decarbonised economies in the european union thanks to nuclear energy, the number of projects eligible for the just transition fund will probably be very limited in france.
this will worsen our net contributor status and further contribute to the incoherence and potential injustice of european energy policy.
you risk losing the economic and social battle by depriving them of their jobs, and you will be ruining their environment, without providing a real sustainable solution, wind power being certainly one of the biggest energy and ecological scams.
european regulations prohibit the financing of nuclear power, which could have been one of the assets on the path to climate neutrality.
after the departure of the uk, a net contributor, and after the covid crisis that is plunging all european budgets, forcing the orientation of european economies towards climate neutrality, imagining meager palliatives to unemployment rather than real ecological and economic solutions, does not seem sustainable.
mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the impact of climate change on vulnerable populations is much more complex than it seems.
and yet, it is a major and complex issue because the impact of climate change can take the form of a natural disaster - a cyclone, mudslide or fire - an event that is then experienced and for which a humanitarian response is provided.
more complex, because the link between climate change and cascading consequences such as famine, economic crises and conflict is the more difficult to make over time.
yet experts agree that climate change is linked to most of the major conflicts affecting the world today.
it is always complex, because from our european perspective, the slightest hint of situations that could lead to displacement of population, even if they are local, generates fear of the migrant at the gates of europe, who will of course arrive without the label "attention, i am a climate displaced person".
in this context, there is urgency at all stages of this process, which is expected to affect 200 million people by 2050: urgency to reduce our emissions, urgency to anticipate the consequences of climate change, to adapt territories in particular, and also urgency to recognize the status of climate displaced persons and to move towards a common terminology at international level.
climate change is hitting developing countries hard, who are at the forefront of the climate crisis.
the frequency and duration of these extreme weather events are likely to increase and to pose a greater threat to developing countries, such as yemen, madagascar and sri lanka, which are least responsible for the climate crisis.
priority must be given to adaptation measures, which are still largely underfunded in these countries: europe has not fulfilled its commitments made ten years ago at cop 15. this is why new and additional climate finance in the form of grants is needed.
beyond funding, strong measures are needed to protect the rights and lands of indigenous peoples, the leading advocates for climate and biodiversity.
protect climate displaced people, including through the recognition of climate migration as a legal basis for asylum and humanitarian visas.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, industry accounts for 40% of our greenhouse gas emissions: to start its transition is therefore more than urgent, it is very urgent.
it is up to policy makers to set the trajectory in the public interest and in the light of the climate emergency, especially since the commission has a clear mandate: to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 and to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
we must stop sticking to the energy of the past, such as gas and nuclear power: even the international energy agency, which cannot be described as being green-leftist, is now calling for this.
today, this project should inspire us: let us invest together and massively in what guarantees our sustainable future: renewable energy and energy efficiency.
let us create a post-carbon european community, a cepca, with a systemic approach, rather than multiplying industrial alliances developed in silos and without overall coherence.
this would be an ambitious policy framework for the european union, the only sustainable strategy that creates jobs for our industries.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ecological emergency is biting at our necks.
for example, a steel industry, turbines and advanced equipment are needed to reach 100% renewable energy quickly.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
mr president, well, back on planet earth, i think it's important that we recognize that climate change doesn't affect everyone in the same way, that environmentalists are among those who have been most affected and increasingly victims of murder, kidnapping, torture, gender-based violence, threats, intimidation, harassment.
global recognition of the right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment is a key step towards protecting these defenders, as is recognition of their role in protecting the fundamental rights and dignity of those most affected by climate change.
it is therefore incomprehensible that no action is taken to accept that environmental inequalities are social inequalities, that environmental justice is social justice.
and it is much less understandable that the european commission should say that it accepts this report, that it supports it, while at the same time continuing to negotiate with mercosur, where, yes, the multinationals and bolsonaro's agribusiness continue to kill environmental activists and destroy indigenous communities.
whatever the state in which they are attacked, these environmental defenders deserve the same language and the same measures from the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, disrupting the climate kills, protecting it kills too.
millions of people are also already displaced or made sick by global warming.
to say nothing, to do nothing, is to be an accomplice to these crimes against human rights and the environment.
the union can and must protect climate defenders by re-engineering its trade policy, by putting in place an ambitious duty of vigilance but also a rapid reaction mechanism to protect them and effectively combat environmental crime and ecocide, and by fighting hard for the universal right to a healthy environment.
this programme, which is also the only eu instrument specifically dedicated to culture, will help to rebuild an ecosystem that has been badly affected by the health crisis.
the principles that will guide our action over the coming years and that reflect your concerns are inclusion, equality, including gender equality, diversity and participation, but also concern for the environment and sustainability in line with the broader objectives of the green deal for europe.
for literary translation, film festivals, subtitling - so important for the dissemination of works -, theatre networks, european capitals of culture, heritage, video game design, for all this and more, creative europe funding will offer artists, creators and authors new perspectives and goals: more inclusion, fairer representation of women, and progress towards greener and more sustainable productions.
through various partnerships and exchanges, erasmus+ continues to focus on key priorities such as skills and competences development, including digital education and training, and sustainable development.
in particular, i hope that the european centres of excellence for vocational education and training will develop and test outstanding teaching and learning concepts that can serve as models for vocational education and training across the eu, especially in view of the programme's focus on digitalisation, sustainability, inclusion and participation.
this programme will be greener, with recognition of environmental issues and better support for environmentally friendly travel.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am delighted to see you, commissioner, i have come to brussels with a mission: to open up and democratise the erasmus programme, making it accessible to as many people as possible and more consistent with our climate objectives.
to meet the ecological challenge, i fought for a green erasmus.
through this plan, we are strengthening digital skills and developing guidelines to help our member states support educators, learners, researchers and future innovators, and thus contribute to the development of a successful digital education ecosystem.
finally, technology also has the potential to promote the concept of sustainable cultural tourism.
the european expert working group on sustainable cultural tourism, under the open method of coordination and in the context of previous work plans for culture, has published a report which includes the first definition of sustainable cultural tourism, as well as recommendations and guidelines for policy makers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
innovation must be rewarded, because it is the engine of progress: levelling and communism have never allowed humanity to make sustainable progress.
in the longer term, the biggest challenge is getting the vaccine out and building sustainable logistics chains in the most remote and impoverished parts of the world.
i hope that the digital single market will benefit europeans, businesses and the environment.
the next item is the report by mr antonius manders, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the report on the liability of undertakings for environmental damage (2020/2027 (ini)) (a9-0112/2021).
mr president, commissioner, 20 years ago i was the rapporteur for the environmental liability directive.
this will create a level playing field for businesses and protect the environment.
on the one hand we are talking about artificial intelligence and on the other hand we want to protect the environment with legislation that is 20 years old and is still being rejected by the member states.
the current environmental liability directive has been transposed differently by all member states and its supervision is also very different.
we are also introducing compulsory insurance for companies in different categories to ensure that the taxpayer does not have to pay for the pollution caused by companies.
so did chemours, which dumped pfas and genx in a landfill in italy and then washed its hands in innocence because it had processed so-called waste.
it is important to us that the directors of large companies who deliberately damage the environment for profit should also be held personally liable.
thanks also, of course, go to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and the committee on development (deve) that have provided their opinions on this matter.
environmental crime is growing.
it causes serious harm to the environment, to human health and law—abiding companies.
preventing and remedying environmental damage, but also ensuring that conduct endangering or damaging the environment are criminalised, are both necessary for a greener and more sustainable europe.
the environmental crime and environmental liability directives are complementary in that respect, and this is also reflected in your report, which broadly addresses a basic challenge that has been around since human societies first enacted laws – namely what do we do when laws are disregarded and harm is caused?
when it comes to europe’s environmental laws, half-hearted enforcement and poor accountability are the weakest links in the chain.
most will comply with our laws, but from experience we all know that some will infringe those laws and cause environmental harm.
the report focuses on two in particular: the environmental liability directive and the environmental crime directive.
as you know, we are in the process of preparing a revision of the environmental crime directive under the lead of my colleague didier reynders, but our actions do not stop there.
we also have a framework for cooperating with national inspectors, police prosecutors and judges, for instance, and under my own lead we will soon start an evaluation of the environmental liability directive.
i can assure you that we will consider the european parliament’s report very carefully, and we look forward to continuing constructive cooperation on all the topics covered by the report and to delivering the level of accountability that our citizens and our environment deserve.
the oil spill in the niger delta has damaged biodiversity, livelihoods and the health of the people in the region.
the report we are voting on points out the shortcomings of the environmental liability directive.
the european union has a special responsibility: to prevent our actions and those of our companies from causing environmental damage internationally.
the european union must make the fight against environmental crime one of its political priorities on the international stage.
the european union has a historic opportunity to be a leader on the international stage, recognising ecocide as crucial to protecting human rights, the environment and biodiversity.
(the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, one in eight deaths in europe can be linked to pollution.
this is shown in a 2020 report by the european environment agency.
the european environment agency has placed my country, croatia, among the four member states with the most transparent industrial pollution reporting monitoring system in the european union.
the environmental liability of enterprises (eld) regulation forms the basis for national laws, and the fundamental principle of the directive is to ensure that companies, operators or others whose activities have caused environmental damage are held legally and financially liable.
across the european union and the world, we have witnessed inexplicable fish deaths, the darkening of lakes and rivers, and marine pollution from industrial accidents or crashes.
the eld should be aligned with the legislation on civil liability for company board members who cause environmental damage by irresponsible decisions.
the financial consequences of environmental damage for the polluter must be commensurate with the pollution.
there are many areas where the directive is unclear, particularly when it comes to biodiversity conservation, and i believe that this is something that needs to be worked on in the future so that it reflects our strategic shift contained in the green plan and the biodiversity strategy.
– mr president, we will indeed vote on a significant report tomorrow, which will send a strong signal to the european commission that we have no more time to waste and that we expect action now.
first, the environmental liability directive and of course the environmental crime directive.
the existing situation prevents a level playing field in the european union and limits the effective protection of the environment.
additionally, we need a secondary liability regime for damage to human health and environment.
in addition, we also need to look at the environmental crime directive.
regarding the potential introduction of a mandatory financial security system, we ask for the commission’s evaluation, with the aim of ensuring that the taxpayers do not bear the cost of environmental damage in case of company insolvency.
unfortunately, we did not achieve an introduction of collective redress mechanisms for citizens who suffered from environmental damage.
who is responsible for this, who is responsible for the pollution caused?
the environmental liability directive establishes the 'polluter pays' principle.
there is no harmonised interpretation of terms, for example in relation to environmental damage and operator.
the report on corporate environmental liability therefore recommends transforming existing legislation into a harmonised regulation to improve enforcement for the prevention and remediation of environmental damage.
it deplores the low levels of detection and prosecution of environmental crimes.
we also call for the introduction of mandatory financial and guarantee schemes for the most dangerous activities, so that taxpayers do not bear the cost of environmental damage.
we call for support for the victims of environmental damage.
we call for modernisation of legislation to ensure more rights and security for businesses, greater clarity and a balance between corporate considerations and environmental protection.
it will help to achieve the original objective of preventing and remedying environmental damage on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is normal for companies to be responsible for the damage they cause to the environment.
in particular, the concepts of environmental damage and operator damage need to be better defined, as they are too vague and do not allow companies to be assured of the minimum legal certainty to which they are entitled.
states should also be asked to strengthen their environmental inspection services, whose resources are often limited and have been reduced in recent years.
finally, the text must be reasonable and include financial guarantee mechanisms to avoid the bankruptcy of smes responsible for environmental damage.
on the other hand, he proposes to extend the mandate of the european public prosecutor's office to environmental offences, which would transform the system into a punitive ecology, which i do not want.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for more than 50 years, the nations of the world have been committing themselves to: yet we continue to destroy the climate and ecosystems at an unprecedented rate.
that is why the subject which brings us together today, the subject of environmental responsibility, is absolutely crucial.
total, shell, bayer-monsanto, bnp paribas and blackrock, to name just a few, have no real obligation to protect the climate and the living or to respect the planetary boundaries.
only 100 companies are responsible for 70 percent of greenhouse gas emissions between 1988 and 2015; none of them are held responsible.
so for climate and for justice, today we call for the recognition of the intrinsic value of ecosystems and their right to be protected: a giant step for nature rights in europe.
if we want to preserve the climate, the living and our rights, we must fundamentally transform the rules governing environmental responsibility.
but if he's really looking for criminals, i suggest an address: go to 10, rue adolphe beck in laval, mr. macron; you'll find the headquarters of lactalis, the company responsible for some of the worst environmental crimes.
lactalis, it's also 38 factories in france that have violated environmental law since 2010, poisoned our rivers, destroyed ecosystems and threatened our health.
recognition of ecocide and implementation of an environmental duty of vigilance.
today, too, another political trend, particularly environmental, is overturning the legal order by giving ngos a privileged role which they would not normally have.
because in the netherlands, with urgenda, in ireland, in france, with the case of the century, and now in germany, the courts have indeed condemned the inaction of their states in the face of climate change.
what was denied to these plaintiffs in the people's climate case was simply the right to defend their rights to life, health, property, a future and a stable climate before the european courts.
the issue is an environmental democracy that has been ignored for too long.
today, the union is not even in compliance with the international convention of aarhus which defends the right to information, participation and access to justice in environmental matters.
let's face it: we are rolling out the green deal for europe to better meet the environmental challenge; but from climate law to the duty of vigilance, what good will this progress do if we don't guarantee access to justice to ensure that these new laws are enforced?
what i am asking for, with the amendments i have tabled, is that all the environmental studies and assessments carried out by the institutions be made available to the public and put in a common and transparent register, as promised by the commission and in particular by commissioner šefčovič.
however, let us be clear: the protection of living beings and environmental rights will require more than a new regulation.
we need a new treaty and an environmental treaty that would finally put respect for human rights and planetary boundaries at the top of these standards, a treaty that would give europe a new meaning and a new horizon for our actions.
third, the climate has changed internationally, as the economic and social ordeal associated with the pandemic and the transition to the biden presidency have boosted tax awareness.
it is also in the mutual interest of the eu and the us that we put in place a solid, sustainable and legally certain transatlantic transfer mechanism.
it's a waste of words, but three weeks later... in one of the first concrete cases in which we can put this trust into practice, we are not succeeding, on the contrary!
renewed efforts for a negotiated, comprehensive and sustainable settlement are needed.
there's no time to waste.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on chad which is before us explains the terrorism affecting that country by, i quote, climate change and the exploitation of natural resources or the lack of educational and economic prospects.
other the european union is facing an increasingly extreme, widespread and frequent hazard every year: climate change.
farmers are facing a climate reality that is beyond the reach of the tools that the common agricultural policy puts at their disposal.
the current five-year average needs to be extended, because we have farmers who, over these five years, have four years of climate hazards, so the average is not adapted.
in the face of climate change, prevention measures may be unnecessary at this stage.
i welcome the objectives of the green deal for europe in improving the sustainability of european agricultural production, but there is a need to put in place instruments to strengthen the environmental and economic resilience of european production without delay.
moreover, the european union must not lose the battle of science, nor that of the region: we will see research products that are not currently authorised in europe arrive on international markets, and that mean that, in the face of climate change, european farmers can leave with different basic rules.
they will not be able to resist climate change if research does not produce plants that are resistant to climate change.
ladies and gentlemen, let us not miss the appointment that history has given us: that of adapting our agriculture to climate change.
on the ecological transition, beware of the temptation that underlies your approach, that of punitive ecology.
the great revolutions - and the ecological revolution is one of them - are only made by adherence and not by coercion, by positive collaboration and not by forced enlistment.
this ecological reflection also requires you to revise your globalist software, the one that programs, for example, the specialization of the regions of the world by type of activity.
it means being forced to comply with overwhelming environmental or social standards and being competed with by countries that are not bound by any rules.
the ecological revolution we are calling for is the localist revolution: the one that turns its back on free trade agreements in favour of fair trade agreements that allow for controlled and virtuous trade.
in this context, priorities such as digitalisation, sustainability and resilience have only become more relevant.
this situation shows us once again the fragility of the european economic environment and the risks faced by smes in the eu.
more and more new rules are being needed to address a wide variety of global challenges from climate change to technological innovation.
as regards regulatory requirements, greater flexibility should have been provided, especially for disposals affecting the credit environment of the real economy and smes, in order to reduce the impact on banks' balance sheets.
another very divisive issue to consider is climate and the environment.
we need to recover in a way that is strong and sustainable, and of course to continue to offer europeans what they deserve: societies that include them and provide for them.
just today, we have launched a public consultation on the new climate, energy and environmental state aid guidelines.
recovery and competition are two issues closely linked to the objectives we have set ourselves in terms of commercial, industrial, environmental, digital, consumer protection and competitiveness policy.
it is a key strategic lever for the ecological bifurcation and employment.
the main cause of the loss of biodiversity is not mentioned in this report.
we are the main cause of loss of biodiversity.
unfortunately, the fact that farmers' work is one of the most important contributions to the conservation of biodiversity is often overlooked.
that is why it is important for me to stress today that ensuring the nutrition of our population and the conservation of biodiversity go hand in hand.
when we talk about the european union's biodiversity strategy, the question of how ecology and economics can be brought together must be at the centre.
we need to discuss how biodiversity can be preserved and promoted in the context of modern and efficient agriculture.
no other sector is more directly dependent on the protection of biodiversity than agriculture and forestry.
they all work every day to protect and preserve biodiversity, thus securing the basis for our food.
the result is a combination of agriculture and environmental associations.
i do not think that european nature can be put together in a single form, as the committee on the environment has unfortunately done.
we need to see the whole, because partial optimisation does not lead to sustainable solutions.
the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, which the committee on the environment has not wanted to hear, bring a global view and balance to the report.
mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur and the commission for a very good report on biodiversity.
and i think we all know biodiversity is at the heart of our economy.
so we need to protect our biodiversity, not only for nature, but also for ourselves.
there is an ongoing loss of biodiversity globally and in europe.
we solve that by addressing all the drivers that are leading to a loss of biodiversity.
we need better sustainability criteria.
we need that our agriculture system has less pressure on our nature and our biodiversity for ourselves and for our future economy and our kids.
i support the objective of protecting biodiversity, but please note that we need to clarify the definitions in this document.
we must be aware of this and we must consider whether the european union is prepared to subsidize agriculture in order to fight more broadly for the conservation of biodiversity.
the cost of these measures will be high, but of course there is no price that cannot be paid for the protection of nature, for the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate and environmental emergency is here.
the biodiversity strategy we are discussing today addresses this challenge seriously, but it would be hypocritical to celebrate a non-binding text and say nothing about the future common agricultural policy.
intensive farming remains one of the main causes of biodiversity loss.
yes to an ambitious strategy to maintain and preserve biodiversity, but no to a common agricultural policy that locks us in a model that is unsustainable for our farmers and for the planet.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, heavy industries, transport, farmers, fishermen, consumers: we must involve all of them in this effort to build up biodiversity.
these are ambitious and binding targets that will enable us to achieve, conserve and, more importantly, restore biodiversity in europe by 2030. we have to understand that everything is connected: what happens on earth and what happens in the sea.
fishermen alone will not be able to restore marine biodiversity, just as farmers alone will not be able to restore terrestrial biodiversity.
more than that, they are often the first victims of biodiversity loss - along with, of course, the ecosystems themselves.
so, because we need to link all sectors of activity, all actors, we might have to move - i think so, but you are convinced, commissioner - towards the ecosystem approach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the vote on the climate emergency in 2019 and the vote on the green deal in 2020, the european parliament is once again leading the way towards an ambitious environmental transformation of european public policies.
agriculture is both an undeniable cause and a clear victim of the collapse of biodiversity.
and to those who continue to oppose ecology and economics, biodiversity and productivity, i ask them: how can we achieve food security in the face of ecosystems that are no longer sustainable, that are no longer in balance?
mr president, commissioner, our biodiversity is at risk.
protecting and restoring our biodiversity is not just about saving whales halfway around the world.
but all this will have to be done with those who suffer every day the impacts of our legislation and the loss of biodiversity: our farmers, our fishermen, our forestry workers.
they will be based on the emissions trading system (ets), on a carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) and on a digital levy.
to accelerate the decarbonisation of our economies, it is key to increase our ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emitting activities.
second, the carbon border adjustment mechanism is also part of the climate package to be proposed in july.
it will ensure that the price of imports mirrors the pricing of emissions for domestic products under the eu ets.
hence, the cbam will address the risk of carbon leakage and support an increased global ambition to fight climate change.
so it is right that the digital giants contribute, and it is right that, in addition to contributing to the environmental and global policies of the european union on a global scale, there should be a market, today called the carbon market at the borders, and that the emission allowances should also be reviewed.
in the european union we have been calling for a tax system of our own, fair and sustainable, for more than ten years.
in principle, before the end of this month, they should present the mechanism for adjustment at the border, a proposal for a digital tax, which after the g7 we do not know what it can be, and a modification of the emissions system.
finally, you say to yourself, as regards own resources: 'we are not going to waste our time discussing this with the meps, let the veto do its work of destruction.'
it is our responsibility, mr hahn, to send a message that europe continues to lead both in the climate transition and in the digital transition and in fair taxation.
thanks to our two rapporteurs of the european parliament, we managed to insert this into the interinstitutional agreement, and we now look forward to receiving from you the proposals on the revised emission trading system, the carbon border adjustment mechanism and the digital levy about which you spoke before.
what is europe doing to find more money for health, for the climate, for jobs?
we'd have more money for health, we'd have more money for climate and jobs.
if these tools are essential for our collective protection, in particular the carbon tax or the tax on the gafams - and our group voted for them - their proceeds must be paid back to the member states.
but until then, it is absolutely essential to ensure that this money is well spent, because there is nothing worse than a failure of the recovery, because there is nothing worse than a failure to deliver on our promises for the climate, for jobs, for growth and for future generations.
no, no waste of it.
so we, the elected representatives, who are obliged to watch the expenditure, who are obliged to protect the european people's wallet, we ask that the states devote 37% of their money to the climate, yes, but also that there is no other side of the projects that harm the environment.
it is strong because it mentions the issues of climate change, human rights, ecological destruction and security.
policies against hunger, human rights and sustainable development finally under one roof!
the biggest problem, next to climate change, will be dramatically widening inequality.
madam president, today we are witnessing the official subordination of the european agenda and cooperation policies to the commercial, migratory and geopolitical interests of the european union, which have nothing to do with the objectives of fair and sustainable development.
having almost eur 80 billion at their disposal, the ndici will significantly contribute to the implementation of the sustainable development goals agenda 2030 and the objectives of the paris agreement worldwide.
now we have a great platform and even greater responsibility to work on eradication of poverty, to support democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights, sustainable development and the fight against climate change.
not because it is an ideological issue, but simply because it would be wrong to orient our debates and our international actions around one and only one policy that is more about the interior of our policy, that is, how we should handle the migration issue, and to export this issue in relation to a sustainable development challenge, following the objectives of sustainable development.
to tackle unemployment, to provide protection for a fair society, and to workers who are ready to adapt to an environmental and digital economy.
indeed, today more than ever – and you already insisted on the different aspects the social fund has to support – we need to put people first and centre, both to succeed in the green and digital transitions and to shape a recovery that is fair, inclusive and sustainable.
with this agreement, the union has a powerful tool for the period 2021-2027 to help emerge gradually from the crisis and to respond to the major challenges of a transition to a more digital and climate-neutral economy, leaving as few of our citizens as possible on the sidelines.
in the face of climate change, three key words: anticipation, mitigation, adaptation.
anticipation: anticipating climate change is obviously about mobilising science to predict the consequences, making the right decisions for better adaptation and effective mitigation policies.
healthy, productive ecosystems, replenished fish stocks are all ways to store carbon.
it's the blue carbon.
the biological carbon pump depends on the state of the global ecosystem.
adaptation, of course: we have to adapt to the inevitable consequences of climate change.
a reformed common fisheries policy taking account of climate change will be the key to accompanying...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this debate as an opportunity to talk a little bit about aquaculture, because i think we are missing a historic meeting.
in the face of climate change, in the face of climate disruption, these ponds, these ecosystems, ensure that there is water in the summer and prevent landscapes from turning into swamps in the winter.
in the face of the urgency of the health and environmental crisis we are experiencing, the european union has shown itself up to the task on the recovery plan, on covax, on the climate law that we have collectively voted.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, the latest council conclusions signal the will to accelerate the ecological transition.
a world in which the eu accounts for only 8% of carbon emissions.
if the ecological transition is to set ourselves increasingly complicated rules without bringing our trade policy into line with this environmental requirement, then it is doomed to failure.
since the 1990s, the european union has cut its carbon emissions by 23%, china has tripled them, not just because they are increasing their production, but because we have delegated the task of producing to them.
and basically, we are not in a position today to solve the climate problem on our own if we do not make our market a lever for this transition, which we call our wish.
if we don't do this work, if we continue to be shortsighted and just set ourselves more and more complicated rules, then we will have carbon and we will have unemployment.
and it is in the face of this tragedy that we find ourselves today, forced to respond by moving, quickly now, on this much-needed carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders.
promising, especially because the united states is finally back at the negotiating table, and not just any way: with democratic, ecological, economic, social and fiscal ambition.
it is about protecting against social crises, but also about making social europe a reality by supporting the ecological transformation of our societies.
unfortunately, the process of rebuilding the entire economy is a more complex process, and we have a long way to go to get back on the right track of sustainable growth.
it is up to all of us, the european union and the member states, local authorities and ngos, to create the right climate and framework to stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation while maintaining solidarity.
the development of digital technology and the environmental transition we are experiencing today will significantly change the jobs of tomorrow and we need to prepare for this very quickly.
i noted with interest the european parliament's idea and its willingness to monitor the follow-up of the social summit in the context of a sustainable and digital economic and social recovery.
the next item is the joint debate on– the council and commission statements on the recent cyberattacks on eu institutions and on sensitive national public and private institutions (2021/2713(rsp)), and– the oral question to the commission on the eu’s cybersecurity strategy for the digital decade by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000037/2021 – b9-0024/21) (2021/2568(rsp)).
in addition, the network code and the initiative on the protection of critical energy infrastructure could address the residual physical and cyber risks affecting energy systems.
the new european cybersecurity, industrial technology and research competence centre, based in bucharest, will aim to retain and develop the cybersecurity, technological and industrial capacities necessary to secure the union digital single market and will be of paramount importance for creating an interconnected europe-wide cybersecurity, industrial and research ecosystem.
we would welcome on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre committee) concrete answers from the commission to the following questions: how and when does it intend to draw up a regulatory framework for ensuring that connected products and associated services, including supply chains, are secure by design, resilient to cyber incidents, and can be quickly patched up when vulnerabilities are discovered?
we also need to ensure that our farmers do not face unfair competition from imports that do not speak to their animal welfare, environment and working conditions.
the end the cage age initiative is fighting for a cause to improve animal welfare and to invest in sustainable farming for the future.
animal welfare and sustainable agriculture can be assured when farmers get the right incentives.
it should be noted that switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner, although this is not only about trade, but also about other sectors, such as medicine, transport and energy.
we have narrowed down our priorities and are focusing on a smarter europe, a greener, lower-carbon europe, a better and more connected europe, a social europe and a europe closer to citizens.
the commission has also proposed that 30% of the european regional fund and 37% of the cohesion fund be used for projects to combat climate change.
but we also care about social europe, and that is why i am personally very pleased that we have been able to push through a horizontal article, which includes fundamental rights, equality, anti-discrimination, the sustainability objectives, environmental protection and just energy transition, and that these points are therefore enshrined in an article of the regulation as well as the principle do no significant harm.
climate proofing is intended to ensure that projects are compatible with climate neutrality by 2050. and a stronger partnership principle is a concern of this parliament, which we have always been committed to.
we are trying to give an answer, with this new regulation, to create a new social balance, more sustainable, more equitable and more just in europe in the years to come.
the great theme of housing, especially for the most difficult areas and most exposed to the social crisis; and then there's the big environmental challenge.
we are thus contributing to a decisive breakthrough in the circular economy, waste and environmental services: a programme of urban regeneration and redevelopment; parks, protected areas, the main players in the new cohesion policy; the end of the fossil fuel economy, except for gas, for heating until 2025. and finally, the third big choice is the digital revolution, connectivity and mobility.
finally, also in the light of the covid emergency, the great choice to lend a hand, a support, to two great vectors fundamental to the growth of our europe in the coming years: sustainable tourism and culture.
together with next generation eu, it can be a valuable opportunity to create the conditions for a new, more sustainable and socially fair development in our territories and, above all, to challenge the regions that have suffered most from austerity policies in recent years, which have suffered from a social point of view from a distance from the centre of europe.
let's not waste this opportunity!
let's not waste this great opportunity.
this money will finance large, ambitious energy transition projects as well as small renewable energy projects.
this money will be used to upgrade roads, railways, improve energy infrastructure, digital infrastructure, small and medium-sized enterprises, upgrade schools and prepare young people for the future.
first, investments will be more digital, leading to smart innovation, quality jobs, sustainable growth and support for small and medium enterprises to make all our regions fit for the future, especially after the covid-19 crisis.
second, investments will be more climate friendly for a sustainable future for the current generation and also for the next generation.
this is also the spirit and the strength of this interreg programme for the environment, for infectious diseases, for employment, for innovation, and also for safeguarding our traditional know-how: throughout europe, interreg is breaking down the barriers of geography.
its funds are essential to finance projects in regions and cities, but it is time it was fully in line with the climate emergency and biodiversity collapse, aligned with the goals of the green deal and stopped funding large, unnecessary and destructive projects.
the final text is not what we dreamed of, but it is a compromise that has the merit of existing and that makes it possible to have the greenest erdf in history: 30% of the erdf funds will be used to stimulate a greener europe, increase investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility and biodiversity.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, democracy has been confiscated in this house, the supposed temple of tolerance, human rights and the environment.
you have already proved this to us by exempting yourselves from the d'hondt law and you have reiterated it in the committee on regional development by resorting to a vote of no-confidence for the erdf, which, in order to help our fellow citizens overseas, amounting to 1.5 billion, has forced us to vote 11.3 billion for migrants, those millions of human beings who are victims of smugglers, modern-day slaves, low-cost labour from multinational companies who, thanks to your treaties, are getting richer and richer, contributing to global warming, to the destruction of our planet, our nations and our peoples.
mr president, thank you for voting for these amendments 8, 10 and 11. on behalf of the renew group, i propose that you refer this matter to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rule 74 of the rules of procedure.
it will by no means reduce our environmental or social economic standards and the implementation of this approach will therefore not run counter to the objectives of better regulation, but rather be applied within the better regulation context.
the sitting is closed and will resume at 8.30 a.m. tomorrow with the debate on the report by mr guteland on the european climate law.
today, we will enshrine into law that the eu, which started as a coal and steel union more than 70 years ago, will become the first carbon—neutral continent by 2050 at the latest.
with this law the eu maintains its leadership as the region with the most ambitious targets for climate.
the climate crisis is the one issue our children will judge us upon in the future.
a large share of our emissions comes from a few countries, a relatively few individuals, but all of us emit.
unless we rapidly cut our emissions, the science is crystal clear: the future will be catastrophic.
increased ambition for 2030, negative emissions after 2050, a new target in 2040, a greenhouse gas budget on the way and a climate advisory board are all important wins for the european parliament.
the new climate law strengthens the ambition of the eu’s climate target.
we have agreed on reduced emissions by at least 55% compared with 1990. this includes negative emissions, so-called sinks, and we also got a separate agreement on an increased level of ambition for europe’s sinks.
that will mean in practice that the 2030 climate target will mean almost 57%.
with our insistence we made sure that the 2030 target is more ambitious and the climate law is more fit for purpose in that sense.
the long-term goal is climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
after 2050, emissions will be negative.
on the way to 2030, we now have an intermediate target for 2040 and a greenhouse gas budget.
the greenhouse gas budget will make sure that we will not leave future generations to bear the burden.
the emissions must go down here and now if we are to live up to the paris agreement.
through the brand new independent european scientific advisory board on climate change, this binding law will be constantly evaluated to make sure that enough action is taken in light of the most recent science.
this will push the climate law to be a very important one.
i also know that the climate law will not only make sure that we are doing more, that we actually also make the sectoral legislation fit for purpose.
it is not a secret that i wanted more: even more ambition for the climate, even sharper targets for 2030, a binding 2050 carbon-neutrality target on the member state level.
but i can assure each and every one of you that i have left no stone unturned to get as ambitious a climate law as possible.
those who vote against it today, they vote in favour of the old climate policies.
they vote against climate neutrality.
they vote for much lower targets for 2030 and they vote against the climate advisory board.
i am also convinced that the climate law has the potential of being even more ambitious in the future.
the climate law is like a new-born baby, with a good character, with a very strong foundation, that has the potential to grow into a very, very strong law, also in the future.
under the green deal, we must begin the socially inclusive and just transition to a sustainable economy.
and i want to call on the european commission when coming in a few days with its proposals for the fit for 2030 package, i want to make sure and push so that the proposals that will translate the climate law provisions into sector—specific legislation will be ambitious, future—proof and socially just.
i want to thank the entire negotiating team, including the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and the shadows for not giving up.
of course markus i don’t forget you who came in the end and made sure we still had energy at the very last trilogue.
in the end i also want to thank all of those who were not there but who are doing so much for the climate.
i want to also thank everyone who does that little extra in their daily lives and think about climate.
there are those who wanted to give up on climate action during the pandemic.
there are those who always talk in favour of climate action but back down as soon as there is a concrete proposal on the table.
today we will show that we are a majority that stands up for the climate and stands up on the right side of history.
(applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we won't know the effects of climate law for a few years or a dozen years.
can climate objectives really be reconciled with preserving, or even increasing, the competitiveness of the european economy and modernising?
will such ambitious targets not lead to higher energy prices and energy poverty for a large proportion of european societies?
you will approve the first european climate law and later you will receive here in this plenary the recently elected secretary—general of the united nations.
i really want to thank the negotiating team of the european parliament, led by the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, mr canfin, and the rapporteur, ms guteland, for the efforts and constructive spirit shown throughout the negotiations.
the climate law regulation will guide eu climate action for decades to come.
first and foremost, it is now a legally binding, long—term target for climate neutrality by 2050. this sets the long—term direction, and to meet this objective it’s important to all eu policies.
it was of the utmost importance to the council that the objective of climate neutrality was defined as a collective for the eu as a whole, in recognition of the principles of solidarity and cost effectiveness in the pursuit of our collective efforts.
moreover, the climate law recognises adaptation as a key component of the long—term global response to climate and provides for stronger action by the eu, by its member states, to enhance their adaptive capacity, increase resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change in line with the paris agreement.
furthermore, to ensure that the eu and the member states remain on track to achieve the objectives, the climate law establishes a framework for monitoring progress.
secondly, the climate law addresses the intermediate steps on its way to 2050. it sets a new, significantly increased eu target for 2030 of reducing net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared to the levels of 1990. the 2030 target will be implemented through the commission’s upcoming july package ‘fit for 55’, which we much look forward to.
the law also contains a process for setting an intermediate climate target for 2040 to provide predictability and confidence to all economic actors.
when making its legislative proposal for this target, the commission is required to publish the eu’s projected indicative greenhouse gas budget for the 2030—2050 period, which will set out the total expected emissions of the eu that the eu can produce without putting at risk its commitments under the paris agreement.
the greenhouse gas budget was one of parliament’s main requests in these negotiations, and it is not a secret that it was a bit difficult for the council, but we achieved a compromise.
this brings me to the third key element in the law, namely the establishment of a new european scientific advisory board on climate based on another important amendment proposed by parliament.
the advisory board, an independent body of scientific experts, will serve as a point of reference for the eu on scientific knowledge on climate change.
this mandates the commission to engage with sectors that themselves choose to prepare indicative roadmaps for charting the path to climate neutrality.
to conclude, i believe that the text before you today is a good agreement which sends a clear signal to european citizens and the world that the eu is strongly engaged in the fight against climate change.
now starts our journey towards a more sustainable future, a journey of work and commitment.
this is the law of laws because it will discipline us in the years to come to stay within the boundaries we have set, which is a reduction of at least 55% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as compared to 1990, and climate neutrality by 2050. if parliament votes for this and council then adopts the regulation, we will be leading the world.
there will always be, as we’ve seen with the pandemic, issues that will potentially distract us from this historic responsibility of saving humanity, because that’s what we do with climate policy.
this is at best the end of the beginning, because even if we have this climate law in place, which i think is a historic decision, the only real measure of our success will be whether we will be able to change the policies on all these issues, on which we will present proposals on 14 july.
i call upon the co—legislators, in this process that will last for years, to show the same spirit of cooperation and compromise that you have shown in deciding on the climate law.
– madam president, today we are voting for something historic: europe’s first climate law.
to avoid disastrous climate change, we need swift and concrete action.
the transport and tourism sectors are responsible for almost a third of eu greenhouse gas emissions.
transport is the only sector where emissions are still increasing.
to achieve the climate targets, we need a concrete roadmap for decarbonising all transport modes, in particular aviation and maritime, as they are responsible for the sharpest increase in emissions.
madam president, scientists tell us that we would need to cut our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030 to meet the paris agreement targets.
in my heart and soul, i cannot vote for this climate bill, which does not do what is necessary to combat climate change and goes against the paris agreement.
this will not prevent us from continuing to fight for an end to fossil fuel subsidies, for mobilising european funds to support the ecological transition, for national adaptation strategies and for a genuine ecological reform of the cap.
our fight for climate is just beginning.
madam president, the climate bill will bring about a change in all european legislation.
with its brutal agenda, by wanting the european union to do in ten years what it has done in thirty years, it will endanger our energy sovereignty, our industry and our competitiveness in a post-covid economic context.
and all this to make europe the first carbon-neutral continent, as if it were a virtue contest.
a european climate law is useless if the rest of the world does not follow, just look at the non-compliance with the paris agreement.
more clarity is also needed on the extension of public participation, another name for the right to act for all, on the functioning of the carbon budget and on the penalties for member states that fail to meet the targets.
because this climate bill will lead to more taxes and an increase in the energy bill and the socio-economic damage will be great.
the result of the swiss vote on the co2 law, modelled on the climate law, should serve as a warning: people do not want a punitive ecology.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we owe this european climate law to our children, to the new generation, whose daily lives will be affected by climate change even more than ours.
others say it does not go far enough, that the target of 55% reduction in our emissions by 2030 is not enough.
thanks to this law, and the impact study conducted by the european commission, we know what we have to ask our industries, transport, energy production and many others to do.
conversely, not accompanying them in this ecological transition would not help them either, because sooner or later they will be forced to evolve.
that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i am proud to be able to vote today in favour of this climate law.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the concept of a just transition, which states that new climate policies must not be at the expense of workers, is a principle i support.
first, it should be borne in mind that the european commission created the just transition fund to respond to poland's strong reluctance to the european objective of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. the greatest vigilance will have to be maintained in respect of the many criteria for the allocation of funds concerning public entities, both on the 'grants' side and on the 'loans' side.
three cumulative criteria will be applied: the carbon intensity of the candidate regions, the number of potential job losses and the level of national income.
the second criterion, on the other hand, confirms that it is difficult to combine social and climate policy.
this criterion seems to me to be unclear, since it is very difficult to predict the behaviour of banks in relation to a project in a public or private entity and, moreover, in new energy sectors.
in conclusion, if social guarantees are necessary to support the shift towards a low-carbon economy, this fund must not be diverted in the pursuit of homogeneity at any cost.
naturally, after the green deal and the ambitious targets for the decarbonisation of the european economy, the investment gap in the area of climate and the environment would have to gain a new priority in the eib strategy.
the new roadmap 2021-2025 only reinforces the ambition of the european investment bank and is something we welcome, as is the alignment of eib financing with the paris agreement as early as 2023. all this will have important implications for credit for the transport sector, the energy sector and industrial policy.
2019, it always feels a bit awkward to be very honest, to do a budget control of 2019 when we are already halfway to 2021. but that was an important year because that was also the year where the eib announced to become the climate bank of europe, and being a green at the same time, i can only welcome that, of course.
for example if you look at the absolute emissions that are linked to the projects that the eib is financing, the emissions rose from 2019 compared to 2018, and there was still a finance of eur 685 million into gas projects.
we know that the energy lending policies have been changed, but still, we would like to hear also from president hoyer on how are you going to make sure that this phase-out of gas projects is going to be put forward.
the same is also on the lack of transparency about emissions that are being financed via intermediaries.
so you have the direct parties, of course, but you also have the intermediaries that are financed through eib and are causing emissions.
looking at what the eib has been doing, we very much compliment what you have been doing on the revision of the energy-lending policies, the climate roadmap, the upcoming transport policies, reform where – at least if we are not mistaken – the eib will announce also to stop airport expansion, but it would be good to reiterate that of course once more.
not only is the eib a climate bank, it also portrays itself as a development bank, so a role outside the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr hoyer, when we came in i have been elected since 2019 we were elected by saying: we now need a climate bank to change the dimension at european level and finance the transition.
we're going to be the climate bank, we know how to do it, we can do it.
it's clear that what we're doing is going much slower than the environmental destruction that's being caused by climate change.
the questions have already been asked and my message is very simple, mr president: if we want the eib to become the climate bank, we must act faster, stronger and with more resources.
this noble objective of development aid with third countries is being undermined by many examples of projects lacking clear social and environmental considerations when loans are being granted.
tomorrow we will finally vote on a temporary three-year waiver that will once again allow online messaging services to tackle child sexual abuse, pending the commission's legislative proposal in the second half of 2021. this proposal must be ambitious, sustainable and much more binding on messaging services, in order to effectively protect our children.
we are facing a collapse of marine biodiversity.
harmful subsidies are contrary to the un sustainable development goals.
finally, no budget has been specifically allocated to the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems.
accelerating digital transitions and ecological transitions is the meaning of history.
mr president, dear colleagues, connecting europe facility (cef) is indeed an important part of the digital and climate transition.
we need fast digital connections, rails that move goods and europeans across the continent and an energy network that is ready for the uptake of renewables.
as the s&d shadow rapporteur, i’m happy that parliament was able to strengthen the climate perspective.
now, 60% of the cef is targeted to contributing to the climate objectives.
we have 15% earmarked to be spent for cross-border renewable energy, and also biodiversity and the gender perspective are included.
and like the greens say, the climate doesn’t wait, and rail investments are urgent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history, a city, lytton in canada, has been completely wiped off the map, burned down as a result of a climate disorder caused by human activities, particularly the exploitation of fossil fuels.
the next day, the ocean itself was on fire off the gulf of mexico, as a result of a gas leak, which we should stop exploiting if we want to preserve the climate, biodiversity, in a word: life on earth.
we have barely voted for the objective of carbon neutrality through the climate act, when we are now rushing to authorize the financing of gas infrastructure projects and even dare to declare that this contributes to the fight against climate change.
the climate will appreciate it.
so the choice is simple: vote and accept a seven-year funding package in a crucial climate decade, ending two years before our 2030 goals, made untenable by the targets and funding appropriations we're about to vote on.
or vote on the rejection amendment that ciarán cuffe and i are proposing to you to postpone the outcome of the negotiations by one month, in order to defend the positions of the european parliament, the objectives of the green deal and help save the climate.
the cause of this extreme heat in a country also in the north is known, it is the climate disorder.
with such an alarm signal, one might think that europe would do everything in its power to curb climate change.
fossil gas can be just as dangerous to the climate as coal or oil.
instead of subsidising gas pipelines, europe should finance wind turbines and solar panels, for the success of the ecological bifurcation, for our future and to be able to enjoy the summer without burning.
it is exercising a very effective repression which has succeeded, as i said at the beginning, in sowing a climate of fear and discouragement among the population.
finally, i am concerned about the climate in this parliament, where if you are wrong in having an opinion different from the majority, you are immediately accused of being a foreign agent.
for the greens/efa group madam president, sometimes states dream of a europe where goods move as freely as possible, without taxes, without environmental constraints, without social rules, but where human beings have the greatest difficulties in crossing borders.
as this house is stressing, completing our legislative framework on migration and asylum will give us a tool to deal with migratory phenomena in a sustainable way, but also it will prepare us better for eventual future crises.
how can we mitigate climate change to avoid the widespread chaos predicted by the ipcc and already illustrated by the climate famine in madagascar?
so how do we respond to the two challenges of our time: the crisis of inequality and the climate catastrophe?
a green paint job on a discounted climate package isn't gonna change that.
it takes fresh money to invest in public services and to trigger the ecological bifurcation.
– madam president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, ms o’sullivan, and of course all the shadow rapporteurs and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as well as the opinion-giving committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) and the committee on transport and tourism (tran) for their important work and efforts on this file over the last weeks and months.
environment action programmes (eaps) have guided the development of eu environmental policies since the early 1970s.
the previous programme, the 7th eap, expired at the end of 2020 and the commission’s proposal for the next eap, which we adopted in october last year, now covers the next decade until 2030. its vocation is to accelerate the union’s transition to a climate-neutral, resource-efficient, clean and circular economy in a just and inclusive manner.
it reflects our joint commitment to the european green deal, which outlines the eu’s environmental and climate objectives.
as such, it’s another important building block in our efforts to deliver on the commitments made in the european green deal and on the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
it supports the delivery of the union’s environmental and climate objectives with a focus on implementation at all levels of governance and on the monitoring of progress.
we must be careful about the legal basis of the proposal, which is limited to environment and climate policies.
this means the 8th eap cannot cover questions for which the treaty provides a dedicated legal base, and it goes without saying that the provisions of the 8th environmental action programme should also be without prejudice to the commission’s right of initiative, which is enshrined in our treaties.
we also appreciate your strong interest in monitoring of progress and your call to clarify the articulation between the different tools to monitor progress towards our environmental and climate objectives.
– madam president, i would like to thank our rapporteur grace o’sullivan and underline the very good cooperation between the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on transport and tourism, ensuring an ambitious ep position on the eighth environment action programme (eap) in view of the interinstitutional negotiations.
the eighth eap aims to set out a framework for eu environmental and climate policy actions, and a monitoring system until 2030, based on the european green deal, to guarantee that the eu is on track with climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest and achieve its 2030 biodiversity strategy towards a sustainable well-being economy within planetary boundaries.
madam president, commissioner, when she became president of the european commission, president von der leyen made the fight against global warming and the protection of the environment a top priority.
i am delighted that we can vote tomorrow on this 8th environment action plan.
it represents a serious approach to environmental action, an approach which my colleagues from the epp and i, together with peter liese, have been tirelessly advocating.
our goals are many and the most important of them - carbon neutrality by 2050 - requires considerable effort.
the european commission's forthcoming announcement of the climate package will be one of the most striking illustrations of this.
it will enable the european union to create the conditions for sustainable growth within planetary boundaries so that the ecological transition creates new jobs and contributes to the well-being of our citizens.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
madam president, in the context of the 8th environment action programme, the union's transition to a climate neutral and inclusive economy must be swift and fair.
the environmental objectives of the united nations 2030 agenda and those of sustainable development must also be achieved.
the programme is an ambitious high-level strategic tool under the guidance of the european union's environment policy until 2030. it should include the actions and objectives of the european green deal and the sustainable development goals.
by 2050 at the latest, people should be living well, within planetary boundaries, in a prosperous and sustainable economy where nothing is wasted.
a clean environment will ensure the health of people.
biodiversity and ecosystems will flourish and nature will be protected.
this will increase resilience to climate change, natural disasters and other environmental hazards.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and the excellent collaboration she has had with all those responsible for this important project on the environment framework programme.
for more than 40 years, the framework programmes have guided the european union's environmental policy, but this eighth framework programme is different, because it takes on board the climate objectives of the european green deal and therefore its continuity, also, beyond 2024. this framework programme assumes that biodiversity loss, climate change, pollution and unsustainable practices such as nature-damaging subsidies are endangering current and future generations.
this report reinforces the interconnection between environmental policies and health and climate policies.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this 8th environment action programme must put an end to the endangerment of the safety of the planet.
climate, oceans, biodiversity: internationally, as here in europe, four of the nine planetary boundaries have been crossed.
the warning sounded by scientists has led us to adopt the sustainable development goals, but the race to infinite gdp growth on a finite planet remains the alpha and omega of european policies.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleague rapporteur grace, we know the urgency of acting for the climate, acting for our oceans - i assure you, i am not going to talk about fisheries today - for our ecosystems.
its southern part, which circles the antarctic continent, plays a major role in the balance of the climate and contains resources that provide vital ecosystem services for all mankind.
on the antarctic peninsula, our biologist and diver on board captured some stunning images, testimony to nature's ingenuity in an extreme environment.
but since then, scientists have been warning that antarctica's climate is warming three times faster than the global average.
the creation of these marine protected areas under the aegis of the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine fauna and flora is therefore a climate and biodiversity issue.
the preservation of antarctica is really a subject which is being tackled here through a rather maritime aspect - commissioner, you are here - and environmental, but it is clearly a strategic subject for us.
strategic, because in fact, as we see, there are a number of states in the world that have a predatory attitude on resources, predatory on the environment, predatory on ecosystems.
i believe that this is what this report is proposing: adaptation to the effects of climate change.
i will simply conclude by saying that a network of marine protected areas would be both a useful tool for the european union's presence on this global stage and, of course, useful for the development of respect for the environment, which is so important to us.
madam president, commissioner, minister, antarctica is certainly an area that must be protected for the environmental reasons that have been set out by all the previous speakers.
fishing should only be conducted in accordance with sound scientific advice if it is to be sustainable in the long term.
illegal fishing activities in the antarctic pose a serious threat to sustainable fisheries and the resilience of marine ecosystems.
this is why it is so necessary to declare these marine protected areas and thus ensure the conservation and recovery of the natural heritage and marine biodiversity in the area.
they see biodiversity disappearing.
the oceans are at the forefront of the fight against climate change and are important but fragile reserves of biodiversity.
i hope that these negotiations will be successful and that they will serve as a precedent for strengthening international cooperation for the protection of biodiversity, and in particular for a comprehensive agreement on biodiversity, beyond national jurisdictions.
to strengthen our credibility, it is also important to implement the biodiversity strategy and to create enough marine protected areas in europe to cover 30% of european waters.
it is true that the sustainability compact, in cooperation with the ilo and the government of bangladesh, was a step towards introducing a degree of accountability in our value chains.
it must shape globalisation with high environmental and social standards.
decent working conditions, labour law, trade union rights, environmental standards, virtuous production methods: this is how we will shape globalisation and fundamentally change value chains to make them sustainable and responsible.
should we accept climate change with these bangladeshi products being shipped from the other side of the world to the european union?
it is in fact undermining the whole climate of relations which we can build with it, including on the commercial level.
we call on the european commission and the member states to take action to promote socially responsible and sustainable air transport within the european union.
we are undeniably stronger together, but there are still future health threats to be feared and the remarkable response we have improvised in the emergency must now pave the way for a europe of health that is united, coordinated, independent and sustainable.
of course, we will have to be prepared for new infectious problems new viruses, risk of antibiotic resistance , but we will also have to be able to respond to other threats, known or unknown environmental, food, biological, chemical, nuclear, etc.
commissioner, let us work together to adapt the european framework to the new realities of the world of work by ensuring that european values are embedded in the digital economy and that the opportunities offered by new forms of work remain sustainable and fair.
they are at the forefront of europe's major challenges: climate, cohesion, health and, of course, the environment, since the ors contain 80% of europe's biodiversity.
in addition to the climate emergency, which requires reconciliation between man and nature, there are also social and economic emergencies.
it also means making our outer regions the driving forces behind innovation, the energy transition and research.
so, i'm telling you, in the face of climate and social challenges, maybe we are also your future.
mr president, deadly floods, apocalyptic fires, record heat: climate disasters were the scenario for films such as 'the day after tomorrow'.
the climate change is already here.
it's already starting badly with your goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55 percent by 2030, when it would take at least 65 percent to meet the paris agreement.
but we have seen the triumph of the carbon market, which companies have used as a license to pollute.
as a result, industrial emissions have fallen by only 1% in ten years.
and while we're at it, let's not even talk about productivist agriculture and climate-killing free trade agreements.
more than €370 a year in gasoline and €420 in heating for these households who are already the first victims of climate chaos.
and since you say you are open to alternatives, we will continue to propose the only serious path: a social and ecological green new deal that breaks with this predatory economic system that destroys everything.
what is at stake in this coup d'état is the overthrow of european legislation, the decline in the competitiveness of our industry, the increase in taxes and the energy bill and the strengthening of power in the hands of the commission.
it is hard to imagine that all the expected socioeconomic upheavals have been taken into account, or even calculated, when the commission proposes, for example, an emissions trading scheme for road transport and building heating.
the yellow vest revolt in france and the rejection of the climate law in switzerland should have served as examples.
as for making the carbon border adjustment mechanism a clean resource, this is to divert the only right measure in this package, as long as the european union does not lie down in the meantime before the wto.
we have a climate package in front of us today that we should have had ten years ago.
the ingredients are already there: we have a climate bill, a big pot of money to invest and this package of climate legislation.
do we want to let multinational corporations pollute the climate for free until 2035?
the european union is a leader in climate policy.
the proposal that has been put forward, the fit for 55 package, is unfortunately a proposal that requires very profound changes, because it does not take sufficient account of the different energy mix of the member states, and we know, in this house, that the just transition proposed earlier by the commission is unfortunately a just transition in name only.
what about construction, energy?
since the recent report of the world climate council, we know how much greenhouse gas the world has left.
we all know what our greenhouse gas budgets are, and we all know that we need new commitments to achieve climate neutrality.
and for the social-ecological transformation to succeed, we need, first of all, a lot more renewable electricity.
it is good for the climate, it is better for the citizens.
the european union must be climate neutral.
mr president, mr vice-president, more than an evolution, not yet a revolution, fit for 55 is a package of unprecedented measures, unprecedented, to make europe the first continent to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. i mention, but only in bulk, the reform of the carbon market, the phasing out of free licences for emitter industries, the establishment of a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders to combat climate dumping, the new target of 40% renewable energy by 2030 and the end of tax exemptions for aviation and maritime fuels.
so yes, europe is doing a lot to combat climate change and yes, it clearly needs to do even more in response to these increasingly extreme weather events and the alarm cries of the ipcc experts.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, it has already been said by my colleagues: this climate package is a step in the right direction, but it is tragically short of ambition.
not to mention the world bank report yesterday, which predicts 200 million climate refugees by 2050. on the deployment of renewable energy, investment in 100% green hydrogen, the end of subsidies for fossil fuels, the end of free pollution quotas, a truly environmentally friendly agricultural policy, on everything and everywhere, we must go much faster and much stronger than what is proposed to us.
climate inaction is threatening to pulverize our future.
the city i was managing was in danger of being submerged by the sea and the french courts proved me right: on 1 july, the council of state ordered france to take action within nine months to reduce its emissions, or face sanctions.
madam president, madam commissioner, if dialogue with beijing may be necessary to combat climate change, we must be firm in other areas.
our generation is facing the historic task of preserving peace in order to tackle global challenges such as climate change, poverty eradication and technological revolution.
but we also know that we need china in the wto and in climate action.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu strategy for the western balkans, which aims to achieve the objectives of the union's external action in the region, including the promotion of sustainable development and the promotion of sustainable development in the region.
because of climate change, 56% of the respondents believe that humanity is doomed.
this summer, climate change has killed hundreds and hundreds of people, and left tens and tens of thousands of people in need.
and the report that the ipcc climate scientists just released shows that these deadly extreme weather events are going to be more and more frequent, more and more numerous, more and more severe in their human and economic consequences.
it is still possible to win the climate battle, but we have only a few years to do so.
i regret that at the moment no date has been set for this dialogue with climate scientists from the ipcc, which could be very important.
yesterday, it was the world bank that announced 200 million climate refugees, 200 million climate refugees by 2050. we're not able to break the co2 and methane curve.
on regulatory issues: you may have read the 400-page report published by the international energy agency on 18 may 2021. the international energy agency is calling for an immediate halt to any new oil and gas exploration projects.
the international energy agency is calling for an immediate halt to all new oil and gas exploration projects.
it is feasible, it is urgent, the international energy agency tells us so.
and unfortunately, in the latest climate proposals of the european commission, there is not a single line on this absolutely fundamental issue.
to win the battle for climate and jobs, billions would have to be spent on insulating homes, making public transportation work, or developing renewable energy.
in france, it is the same people who told us in july that there was no money for a real climate law and the same people who are blocking negotiations at european level to tax speculation.
friends, i think it's a little obscene to tell us that there's no money for climate, no money for jobs, no money for health, when the financial markets have never been at such high levels and a small tax would bring in 60 billion a year.
success in the climate plan, success in the green pact, is not just one project among others.
the time to create a climate and employment union is now.
we all use the terms "climate crisis", "health crisis" and "diplomatic crisis" in our speech.
the green deal we are working on will also make it possible to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. we have been able to meet our committees and our staff, and now we must go further, faster and more effectively to defend europe.
defending europe means giving ourselves the means to make the ecological transition with a correctness in the public policies we will pursue.
at the time you describe this vulnerability, the multiplication of european climate standards will increase our imports from china; the taxonomy could make us permanently dependent on russian and american gas; the commission's own agricultural strategy will lead to a massive decline in food production.
but for this summit to be a success, the european union will have to play a leading role, leading the transition to standards based on respect for human rights, fair competition and environmental protection.
not only that, but the emergency we are witnessing, with more than a third of the world's population unable to afford a healthy diet, forces us to commit ourselves to promoting and spreading healthier and more sustainable diets, such as the mediterranean diet, which can improve life expectancy and ensure a more efficient use of natural resources.
the increasingly ambitious targets at european level also require an equally ambitious trade policy, which sets international standards for environmental and social sustainability and respect for workers' rights, through reciprocity and convergence systems in the common interest of our trading partners.
we therefore call for binding chapters on sustainable development in all trade agreements of the union.
only through strong and exemplary leadership can the union make a concrete contribution to achieving the un sustainable development goals.
and yet one third of the food we produce is never eaten, and our diets are a major contribution to environmental damage and to loss of biodiversity.
also, public debt has increased in 108 countries in 2020, placing further pressure on states’ ability to produce sustainable food systems.
we must stop bilateral agreements like mercosur, which are disastrous for the climate.
next week's un summit should be a catalyst for healthier, more sustainable and equitable food systems.
more importantly, we need to do circular and sustainable business to innovate, combat food loss, work on healthy soils and promote biodiversity.
finally, we need to ensure that healthy, sustainable food is available to everyone worldwide, with a focus on promoting healthy eating patterns and reducing food poverty.
we need to empower farmers globally to deliver sustainable, local and healthy food policies that are in line with each individual's own reality, ambitions, opportunities and challenges.
eradicating hunger and ensuring the right of all to adequate food means innovating with determination in tackling inequalities and developing sustainable food systems.
as president of the european parliament delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i welcome the provisions to develop a partnership between equals for capacity building and sustainable development contained in the post-cotonou agreement.
the european union has a role to play if the sustainable development goals are to be achieved everywhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last few years have marked the beginning of a new era, one of permanent uncertainty due to the consequences of the ecological disaster: the covid-19 pandemic, fires, droughts, floods, cold waves.
by preying on ecosystems, it eradicates biodiversity.
how can we not react to the famine that has struck madagascar because of the climate catastrophe?
farmers and biodiversity suffer.
it needs to be revised urgently if we are to finally tackle the climate and food challenges.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to illustrate the role of development policy in tackling the loss of biodiversity in developing countries in the context of the sustainable development goals, i would like to talk about the great green wall project, to which the european union is contributing €750 million per year until 2025. this african initiative to combat desertification, which involves replanting trees from dakar to djibouti, is in fact also an agroforestry project and also a project that meets the objectives of climate and biodiversity, eradication of hunger and poverty, local economic development, anticipation of conflicts and migration, etc.
at the global level, there is urgency, commissioner: we have less than ten years to implement the 2030 sustainable development agenda and bring these 17 sdgs to life.
to restore the objectives of marine and terrestrial biodiversity embodied in sdgs 14 and 15, for example, it is of course necessary to preserve, restore and manage sustainably, but it is also necessary to act on the other 15 sdgs.
it is the only relevant response to the challenge of global development and the preservation of biodiversity.
however, europe, already strapped to draconian environmental constraints, cannot assume a world leading role.
this is especially true now that china has sometimes been associated with projects that are harmful to the environment, whether in terms of fossil fuels, infrastructure or deforestation.
secondly, it is true that agroecology has an underestimated economic potential; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is also urgent to mobilise new sources of sustainable development financing, beyond international aid alone.
mr president, the protection and conservation of biodiversity is a key issue in the preservation of nature and its ecological functions.
i very much welcome the many references to the sdgs in ms rivasi’s report and to agenda 2030. it is very clear that the only way we will achieve policy coherence for sustainable development is if we can marshal the facts, if we have the data, and it is clear that we do not.
mr president, as the rapporteur has said, this report comes at a very good time, as the cop 15 on biodiversity starts this month.
finally, these conservation goals will only be ecologically whitening if we do not transform our trade rules and free trade agreements; our agricultural policies and banned pesticide exports to the south; fisheries agreements and subsidies to overfishing; extractive industries and their ravages on land and at sea; and our environmental policies.
any development policy will be futile if we do not revise our economic model: its impacts on biodiversity and living conditions in developing countries are devastating.
we also point to the need to establish minimum standards at european level on how to conduct child hearings in a safe environment and with appropriately trained staff.
the first, the biggest and most urgent challenge is to combat global warming and the decline of biodiversity.
in the face of the pandora papers, in the face of the profits of multinationals, what do we expect to put an end to the accumulation of wealth together, help each other in the ecological transition and move forward together towards a more just and sustainable world?
alstom energy, a pillar of our strategic independence, was stolen from us by the americans, with no reaction from brussels.
actions that will strengthen trade relations by strengthening the coordination of our priorities, such as the promotion of workers' rights, climate action, the management of technological transformation.
the eu and the us have led the world in achieving climate neutrality by 2050. president biden has re-engaged the united states in the paris agreement.
together, the eu and the us account for one fifth of emissions and one third of the world economy.
we have a historic responsibility for emissions, and together we can and must make a difference to the climate.
the infrastructure package for the bidens includes many climate measures, but the legislation is still not enough.
it's time for the united states to start pricing emissions, especially in industry.
our greatest security threat is the climate crisis, which we're currently experiencing.
that is why we must make our foreign policy climate-safe together with our transatlantic friends.
the arrival of joe biden is certainly good news for the climate, for the social, for the global challenges, but the transatlantic dialogue requires creating and maintaining trust for an ambitious and long-term partnership.
important because close cooperation from trade to security was based on shared values, shared priorities and shared interests and so must continue and expand on issues captured in the report, such as climate change, human rights, digital transition, terrorism and more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership with the united states is extremely important for the future of europe and for ensuring a climate of peace and stability in the world.
the united states is not just a partner, but a strategic ally, with whom we share common democratic values, and with whom we must find solutions to security challenges, those generated by the pandemic, or new developments in the digital or environmental fields.
let us fight together against climate change, international terrorism or the growing aggressiveness of the chinese regime.
– madam president, i am pleased for the opportunity to be in plenary today to discuss hera after the debate last monday in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as this really provides another opportunity to explain, to clarify and to build together with you a path forward.
setting up hera as soon as possible stems from one conviction, and a conviction i believe you share with us: namely, that we must waste no time in responding to the ongoing threats of covid-19 and other emerging public health threats.
so, commissioner, you attended the meeting of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on monday and you saw that not all the political groups accepted your proposal.
that is why we are proposing that we accept the hera, but for a limited period of time, and then we will have to go through the ordinary legislative procedure with parliament as co-legislator - so we will not waste time, but we will fight for a democratic solution.
we need long-term, sustainable structures.
we were there discussing with them and assessing also other topics, the scientific environment and also knowledge—based findings about arctic.
the big role we indicate in the report for climate change, we think that an ambitious response to this and keeping the protection of environment, as well as all other pillars of fundamental eu policy vis—à—vis the arctic, is extremely important.
we acknowledge that what is happening to the arctic, the very visible effects of climate change there have been predominantly created elsewhere, outside of the region, and therefore there is a need for the international community to look into concerns and also our findings concerning the arctic.
we put very high in our deliberations the role of sustainable development, of the responsible use of the riches of the arctic, also to the benefit of local communities, in particular indigenous people, in accordance with the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and on our own documents adopted by the eu.
it is true that the arctic is attracting renewed attention from scientists, as well as from think-tanks and, now, security analysts because of its key role in local and global climate change, its abundant resources on land, at sea and under the seabed, the increasing interest in arctic sea lions, as well as connectivity, cables and, in a nutshell, the geopolitical importance of these extremely vast regions.
it underlines the eu’s commitment to being a responsible actor, seeking the long—term, sustainable and peaceful development of the region by fully cooperating with international partners.
this goes for the work to clean up litter from the ocean, to safeguard fish stocks and to drive forward a transition from hydrocarbons to carbon—neutral production and transport systems while, of course, at the same time, enhancing the attractiveness of living, working and thriving in arctic regions.
second, the eu is well placed to engage in regional and multilateral efforts across the arctic, for instance in science and research, in space—based capabilities (which is extremely important), and in the fight against climate change.
these are: to respond ambitiously to climate change and safeguarding the arctic environment, to promote sustainable development and to strengthen international cooperation in order to address all the geopolitical challenges in the high north.
– madam president, rapid climate change in the arctic causes environmental, social, economic and also security challenges.
it is in the interests of all active in the region to maintain a stable environment in the arctic by cooperation and coordination.
the eu has a clear role in fighting climate change and in advancing sustainable development, but it is necessary to be engaged also in matters of security, taking into account russia’s active militarisation in the region.
the climate crisis threatens the whole existence of the arctic nature and its people.
there is so much to be said about the arctic: the effects of globalisation on shipping, the preservation of biodiversity, the need to maintain cooperation between the arctic nation states.
the european parliament has been very active in the fight against climate change, and it has been very active in the fight against climate change, and it has been very active in the fight against climate change.
it mentions various important details, such as how the melting of the arctic permafrost is a risk factor for both environmental and health.
it also mentions the growing interest of russia and china in the region and finally its energy importance, that is, the deposits of oil, natural gas and minerals.
it is where the economic and security interests of the great powers meet the extreme effects of climate change.
the eu has the power and responsibility to promote the sustainable, comprehensive development of the region.
the european parliament often focuses on environmental and climate policy when it talks about the arctic, which is very important, but it is great that this report looks at the opportunities and challenges of the arctic in a much broader way.
the opportunities offered by the economic, transport and infrastructure aspects and the need for sustainable investment in the region are also highlighted.
climate change has long been a difficult problem in the arctic.
over the past 50 years, climate change has advanced in the arctic region at three times the rate of the rest of the world, and its effects are everywhere, including in sea level rise and through different weather patterns.
the fight against climate change is therefore important for the arctic region, where reducing emissions of black carbon, or nox, is particularly important.
at the same time, climate change has meant that the arctic is now much more accessible.
the climate crisis is our greatest security threat.
the eu must integrate the security aspects of climate change into its revised arctic strategy and climate-secure its foreign and security policy.
we can propose a model of sustainable development, of course, so now let's take it into account, let's act!
the arctic is a unique ecosystem with endangered marine species.
the arctic is also, unfortunately, the target of profit-hungry companies who plan, if we let them, to extract so much fossil fuel that we will have consumed 22 per cent of our carbon budget.
in terms of job sustainability, the sector represents 27 million workers, representing 11.2% of employment in the union.
i hear you: you want to launch a modern, sustainable and responsible tourism.
i say 'take action' because we have treasures of biodiversity, because our greatest wealth is the men and women of our territories, and because that is what tourism is all about: unforgettable encounters and the opportunity to build on each other's openness and respect for each other.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you sincerely for this discussion on a first review of the tourist season and on the importance, more generally, of this tourism ecosystem which is, i repeat, absolutely essential for us in europe.
i would like to say again that we are not yet at the expected levels for our tourism ecosystem, but nevertheless, the last season has just shown that there is really a recovery.
the european tourism ecosystem has been severely affected by the covid-19 crisis.
it is a context of a polymorphic environment: regulatory, technological, economic, educational, security, with hybrid threats, geopolitical, obviously - many of you have spoken about it and rightly so, with the notion of attribution capacity which is real - institutional, political.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission and council statements on european solutions for energy price increases for businesses and consumers: the role of energy efficiency and renewable energy and the need to address energy poverty (2021/2904 ((rsp)).
the world economy has started to rebound after the pandemic and is hungry for energy, most notably in asia.
to make things worse, less wind than usual in western europe and less hydropower reduced the available amount of renewable energy.
the carbon price has also increased steadily due to economic recovery and greater use of carbon-intensive fuels, but this explains only a limited part of the electricity price increase.
europe has gone through high energy prices many times in the past and responded to them through diversification of supply sources and market integration.
today, the price rise happens while a profound transformation of the energy system is underway.
we have to be clear: the current price hike has little to do with our climate policies and much to do with our dependence on imported fossil fuels and their relative prices.
the green deal provides the only lasting solution to europe’s energy challenge: more renewables and improved energy efficiency.
the best response to the price challenge is to progress faster towards our target goal of 65% of renewable electricity by 2030. the electricity market design is tailor-made to deliver more renewables and cheaper energy to all consumers and to enhance cross-border integration.
we believe this framework is sound, but we see the challenges and we are ready to launch a study with acer based on the current electricity market design and its ability to deliver a lower-cost and secure transition to a net-zero energy system.
providing targeted support to consumers, direct payments to those most at risk of energy poverty, cutting energy taxes, shifting charges to general taxation are all measures that can be taken very swiftly, under eu rules.
the immediate priority should be to mitigate social impacts and protect vulnerable households, ensuring that energy poverty is not aggravated.
protecting consumers, including by preventing disconnection and supporting self-consumption and energy communities is also key.
we need to invest in flexibility and storage to integrate more variable renewable energy in the electricity market.
we need well-functioning and liquid gas markets in the transition, ready to integrate growing shares of renewable gases.
we need also to remain mindful of the importance of the geopolitics of energy and develop a more strategic approach to external energy policy.
we must respond together and stay on course to a cleaner, more secure and more affordable energy future.
– madam president, the issue of increasing energy prices affects all european citizens, and therefore it is a highly relevant topic to discuss today.
on this basis, we need to discuss how the eu can help to mitigate the impact of soaring energy prices.
as you know, the rise in energy prices was discussed at the informal meeting of energy and transport ministers in september.
the competitiveness council of 28 september followed up on those discussions by insisting on the importance of affordable, decarbonised energy.
the environment council will also be seized on the matter at its meeting today.
in this way, the presidency encourages exchange of best practices on how to mitigate the negative consequences of increasing energy prices at the national level, but also a reflection on potential collective action at the eu level.
we are looking forward to the communication on rising energy prices that the commission has promised to unveil on 13 october.
the fit for 55 package is neither the source of the current surge of energy prices, nor a short—term solution.
in the long term, the decarbonisation of the european economy can contribute to mitigating fluctuation in energy prices and to fighting energy poverty.
a reinforcement of eu energy efficiency policies can help moderate our energy demand and support member states in addressing energy poverty.
in parallel, the reinforcement of the renewable energy directive can reduce eu import dependency on gas, reducing our exposure to its price fluctuations.
the newly proposed social climate fund aims to mitigate the price impact of the new carbon pricing by providing temporary direct income support for vulnerable households.
i am convinced that the negotiation for the fit for 55 package will help us define the best and the most cost—effective tools to reach our common goal of climate neutrality and, at the same time, a long—term solution for the sustainable energy mix of member states.
it is our duty to help citizens and enterprises overcome this crisis of increased energy prices.
we have to make sure that no state or non-state actor – be it the russian federation, gazprom or anyone else – manipulates and influences european energy prices.
these should be deployed quickly, and i believe that if such a proposal would be on the table from the commission we here in the european parliament can support it, and then of course improve our energy security, reduce our energy dependence.
the social climate fund, as it was designed, is not sufficient.
we have to increase the social climate fund because what we have now, the gts, the social climate fund will not be enough.
because energy prices are not just a national issue, they have a clearly european dimension.
but we also need medium-term solutions that allow energy markets to operate more efficiently.
the european commission should present a concrete plan for states to coordinate and react in times of high energy market stress as a first step towards a true energy union.
what is unacceptable is that it is the most vulnerable who pay for the abuse of the receipt while the big energy companies make billions in profits.
it is an opportunity to invest in energy-efficient and renewable technologies, to invest in the future, to move beyond an outdated, unsustainable fossil fuel-based model that is responsible for the current price crisis.
secondly, measures must be taken to curb speculation in the carbon market.
the european union's carbon market has been breaking records for months of speculative moves.
we must put a stop to this speculation and ensure a transition to a sustainable model, because it is a road without return.
the european climate strategy, together with the recovery plan, make economic growth and sustainability compatible.
and thirdly, the rules for the operation of electricity markets need to be revised to make it easier for cheaper energy sources such as renewables to be brought into the mix, while curbing price volatility.
for years we socialists and democrats have been working to eradicate energy poverty in europe.
unfortunately, we are forced to talk about this today because the energy price crisis and energy poverty are a matter of great concern to a large part of the european public.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, our renew europe group cannot accept that the explosion in energy prices, and in particular gas prices, is affecting our citizens so badly and weakening our industries.
the energy crisis requires strong measures in the short, medium and long term.
secondly, we must promote 'made in europe' energy by reducing our dependence on fossil fuels from other countries as much as possible.
this means developing our renewable and low-carbon energy sources here, rapidly, including nuclear energy, which is currently the cheapest form of energy.
it is our strategic energy autonomy that must be promoted.
finally, the european energy market must be reformed quickly and the indexation of the price of electricity to the price of natural gas must be ended.
we must therefore reform our european energy market in the spirit of the green deal.
who said and guaranteed, and i quote, "that the energy market would make it affordable"?
since you privatized the energy market, prices have almost doubled.
energy should be a commons, accessible to all, but you have made it a commodity like any other, on which we speculate and make profits.
our group on the left in the european parliament is proposing an immediate price freeze on energy and basic necessities.
learn from your failures, get out of every market that is leading us straight into the wall, allow the states to renationalize the energy sector and keep their hand on price controls for a long time, put the package on the renovation of the millions of heat sinks that are increasing the energy consumption of the most precarious households, finally act.
the rise in energy prices is your political choice, but you can stop it: either you continue to serve the interests of a handful of shareholders, or you finally wake up to help millions of people in the galley.
madam president, this rampant escalation of energy prices is a direct threat to eu stability.
winter is coming and energy poverty will soon be widespread.
the problem is especially acute in spain, where the dependency on gas is now combined with the huge political power of the energy monopoly.
with aznar, gonzález and their buddies sitting on the boards of energy companies, the spanish energy market is a textbook example of regulatory capture.
spain’s vivid lessons of what not to do in energy policy include grotesque initiatives like the taxation of self-production of families and smes.
populists are surely taking this emergency as their opportunity to undermine progress towards the green transition, but the green deal is the only pathway to cheaper energy access and to evade climate change.
consumers must easily understand their energy bill so that society does not associate rising prices with the green transition.
more action is needed on energy efficiency, and tolerance of revolving doors must end.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure.
on the contrary, in a strategic long-term perspective, we must recognise that now more than ever we need to invest in energy efficiency, stimulate growth and renewable energy across europe, and create sound alternatives to the use of fossil fuels.
it is now up to us to accompany the transition with decisions that ensure the resilience of our energy supply.
so it is reassuring, yes, to see that states are taking up laws that can support households in difficulty during these energy crises.
the aid still has to be adequate: in france, the aid for the most precarious households is 100 euros, whereas the observatory on energy precariousness recommends 710 euros.
for the climate, we also have to get rid of it.
let's choose energy independence, let's choose energy conservation, let's choose renewables and really do it.
and do not tell us that nuclear power is the solution, that we import uranium from it, that we do not know how to treat its waste, that it is still much more expensive, big or small reactors, than renewable energies.
no carbon market for transport and construction, no investments in gas and nuclear, but ecology and social justice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, energy prices are exploding all over europe.
one third of people surveyed in france by secours populaire have difficulty paying energy bills: 550 000 households had their electricity or gas cut off in 2020. you sold us the liberalisation of the sector as the miracle that would bring down prices.
finally, in the longer term, it is the market's energy output that is on the agenda.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's debate is being triggered by the rise in gas prices, but the truth is that the energy crisis has not yet begun: it is very far ahead of us.
some, like the french minister of economy, want to change the rules of the energy market, but the truth is that you will not change the basic principles of economics.
we have seen the yellow vests in france, we will see the same phenomenon at european level and in the end, because we wanted to sell renewable energies which, in fact, make us dependent on gas, we will have increased our contribution to climate change.
i was concerned by the speech by the energy commissioner which showed that in the ec, the view is that we are dealing with a temporary situation.
the ec toolkit must contain immediate measures, firstly, direct payments for vulnerable consumers in romania, across the eu, who will not be able to pay their energy bills.
energy efficiency needs to be improved and renewable energy production increased, but romania and a number of eu member states are perfectly justified in insisting on keeping natural gas as a transition fuel.
today we are told that there is not enough public money to insulate housing and to deal with the energy crisis.
it's unacceptable that the rich are always getting richer, and the poor, because of the health crisis, the economic crisis, and now the energy crisis, are just getting poorer.
it doesn't matter if they undermine national budgets or european funds, or commit tax or environmental crimes.
environmental crimes are very lucrative, but most go unpunished.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but we must realise that every euro we take out of taxation is so much money that will not benefit the general interest, our democracies, so much money that we desperately need for the functioning of our schools, our hospitals, our public services and to invest in the ecological and social transition.
these are the same people who speculate on environmental predation, carbon, deforestation or industrial fishing.
there can be no climate justice without fiscal justice.
the success of the facility will be measured against the effective use of taxpayers’ money and its ability to deliver a lasting improvement to our economic and social resilience and our sustainable growth potential.
democratic scrutiny is a condition, and the european parliament, the representatives of the people, have to be informed in detail about where we stand because the people in all member states – including in the countries where we know there are problems, but you have to provide us with more details – the people in all countries expect money from the recovery and resilience facility to fund the improvement of education, the improvement of public administration, the modernisation of the healthcare system, tackling pollution, reducing electricity bills, improving air quality infrastructure and so on.
the commission has to make proposals on two other own resources projects: the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and carbon emission quotas, which are issues with other issues.
we actually need a sustainable long-term solution.
the next item is the debate on the report of by anja hazekamp, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and herbert dorfmann, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on a farm to fork strategy for a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system (2020/2260(ini)) (a9-0271/2021).
– madam president, today we are talking about food, about the vital energy source that fuels us.
our current food production and consumption is responsible for about a third of all our greenhouse gas emissions and an even greater proportion of biodiversity loss.
i am also grateful to my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development and, in particular, mr herbert dorfmann, my fellow rapporteur, for their dedication to working on our response to this strategy.
by investing in a transition to a more plant—based diet, we can spare animals the suffering, fight food—related disease, save precious farmland and biodiversity, and limit the climate impact of what is on our plates.
by providing food with clear labels and a fair and true price, we can enable consumers to make more informed choices for the environment, animals and their own health.
the sustainable choice must be the most affordable one.
for example, we cannot truly restore biodiversity or successfully achieve a protein transition while we are still heavily subsidising the intensive animal agriculture industry and signing free trade agreements (ftas) that directly contradict these goals.
by investing in and sharing knowledge, we enable farmers to produce more sustainably and by redirecting the very significant agricultural funds to support truly sustainable agricultural practices, we will encourage the preservation of small farms that work with nature.
it requires a balance between food security, security of supply on the one hand, and the pursuit of greater sustainability on the other.
but still: we have addressed many things in our work, in our report - many things from the point of view of agriculture, the link with the common agricultural policy, the question: how can sustainability be brought into agriculture as a whole, not only with organic farming, but also?
all the things that are important to achieve our contribution to the climate goals.
the union will have to play a leading role in the global transition towards production standards based on respect for human and workers' rights, fair competition and environmental protection.
we also call for binding sustainable development clauses in all our trade agreements.
competitiveness which must also be based on a decisive step forward by the union in research and innovation, so that our producers have effective alternatives at their disposal, starting with sustainable biotechnologies to produce more, in a way that is more respectful of the environment and of consumers.
now we also need to ensure that food is sustainable for both people and the planet as well as for producers – for farmers, fishers and aquaculture producers – and businesses in the whole food chain.
we need to reframe the debate around sustainability.
it works alongside other green deal strategies and sets out more than 27 initiatives on pivotal issues ranging from animal welfare to food waste.
these are simply not yet able to capture changes on the demand side or losses for production because of climate change and biodiversity loss.
the strategy sets ambitious eu—wide targets for pesticides, fertilisers, antimicrobials, organic farming and food waste – all based on the latest available evidence.
we see this already in the common agriculture policy, with member states invited to set explicit national values contributing to the eu targets, taking into account their specific situations, to allow for assessing the contribution of the plans to our environmental and climate legislation commitments.
the national strategic plans will still need to be ambitious, empowering primary producers and making the sector more resilient, while reducing environmental impact.
the targeted initiative on the new genomic techniques will explore how technology can safely contribute to our own common sustainability goals.
and we are making steady progress with the new, stronger eu animal welfare legislation for the end of 2023. digitalisation is, of course, another essential driver of sustainable farming and will enable the full use of all our tools, including galileo and copernicus.
our oceans and waters offer potential too, by providing food and feed with a low carbon footprint, as well as tapping into new alternative proteins such as algae.
on consumption, the food labelling initiatives that will come at the end of next year will help with informed, healthy and sustainable food choices.
preparatory work is also underway on our flagship that truly spans from farm to fork – the new framework legislation on sustainable food systems.
this horizontal framework will enable us to deliver the transition to a sustainable food system – just as the general food law has made our food safety the best in the world.
finally, research and innovation, through initiatives like horizon europe, life, blueinvest and the agricultural knowledge and innovation systems, will be key in enabling sustainable growth and we must make use of their full potential.
today’s debate and tomorrow’s vote will help us all, as a union, to bring our vision of sustainable food systems closer.
let us not be lulled by the outdated rhetoric distilled by conservative lobbyists, preachers of the food and agricultural apocalypse, whose anxiety-inducing messages have absolutely no other objective than to preserve the interests of a few at the expense of the climate, biodiversity, our health, farmers and thus at the expense of the robust ecological foundation necessary to build a dignified and decent future for our children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our food systems are responsible for one third of our greenhouse gas emissions.
the aim is to bring about the agroecological revolution and to re-establish international trade through ecological protectionism and solidarity.
madam president, the 'farm to fork' strategy is crucial to bring our food system into line with the objectives of the green deal and the fight against climate change.
livestock account for more than 14% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
preference should be given to other forms of livestock farming that are climate and environmentally friendly and also more rewarding for farmers.
but when the strategy is put into practice in legislation, care will be needed to avoid the negative effects mentioned in the jrc study, such as food price increases or carbon leakage, and to include all sectors, such as fruit and vegetables or wine, which are inexplicably excluded.
to succeed in achieving these goals, we must simultaneously move from free trade to fair trade with tools to protect our farmers' incomes, such as mirror clauses for imported products, but also innovate, because yesterday's solutions are not up to the climate challenge.
access to sustainable, quality food should not be reserved for a privileged few.
it is at the heart of the green deal to make food production in europe sustainable in a climate-friendly way.
sustainable production does not mean losing jobs and bankrupting farms.
our own farmers are turning their backs and producing outside europe in less sustainable ways.
it is timely to have a discussion on the appropriate employment and social policies for the euro area in a future-oriented perspective as our economies are on the recovery path, but as they also face a certain number of uncertainties, like energy prices going up and the lack of certain inputs.
if we want to get through the coronavirus crisis and also make a fair climate transition where we really leave no one behind, we need to invest in people.
with increased investment and climate indicators, we can ensure that transitions leave no one behind.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
as rapporteur for the envi committee, i am pleased that exposure from para-occupational, domestic or environmental sources is taken into account.
and that is why, with this report, we have created something of paramount importance for consumer protection: the introduction of asbestos certificates in buildings, renewable every five years, following a so-called surface detection.
let us tackle asbestos with a comprehensive strategy of social convergence from above: training of workers, the precautionary principle on construction sites, diagnosis before work, epidemiological monitoring of mesothelioma, waste management, global prohibition, recognition and compensation of victims.
react-eu and the future cohesion policy, notably through the support by the european social fund+, also opened up new opportunities to leverage the potential of these sectors to contribute to the sustainability and resilience of european societies.
this requires the promotion of vocational training in the digital environment and the protection of authors' works and adequate remuneration.
and the explosion in energy prices for which you are directly responsible is the straw that can tip millions of people into poverty.
but you also warned that you would not change the problem: energy would remain a commodity like any other, that's all.
it is the same story again and again with the climate change and the terrible floods that have ravaged whole regions of europe.
but you refused to change a single comma in your climate bill, which will not allow us to meet the paris accords.
let's expand the carbon market even further.
and a sector which, despite all the uncertainties, has to face the immense challenges of the green deal for europe, the necessary decarbonisation and the protection of biodiversity.
taiwan shares our values: defending democracy, fighting climate change, high social standards, protecting basic freedoms.
these companies may not have the export shares that meet the new european standards, but they want to be able to finance the energy transition.
of course, these plants need low energy taxes and fewer levies.
instead of reducing the carbon leakage list, we need to expand that list.
otherwise the european energy transition will take place without european industry.
(without a microphone) to stop the climate crisis, the paris agreement.
climate change has gone from being a minor issue to becoming a central part of eu policy through the green gift.
recently, we have had a climate law that greatly increases the eu's climate ambitions.
state aid is one such important area where the rules have not been updated to reflect the climate.
the rules for the authorisation of state aid for environmental and climate objectives have not been updated in seven years.
it would also be welcome if we here in the european parliament could now agree on a common view on the direction in which we should go to improve the climate benefits here.
because i don't think anyone has noticed that we have skyrocketing energy prices right now.
only one-fifth of that is because we have stricter climate policies that put a price on dirty fuels.
i hope that parliament can land in a strong position on climate, and stand up for renewables against fossil fuels.
mr president, dear vice-president vestager, ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of the 2030 climate targets and carbon neutrality by 2050 must not remain wishful thinking, but must become a reality.
similarly, the revision of the state aid guidelines on environment and energy will contribute to the post-covid green recovery of our economy and society.
it is essential to end fossil fuel subsidies and to support all solutions compatible with carbon neutrality.
we all agree that climate change can only be achieved if we invest massively, invest in a transformation of economic structures.
that's the exemption sweden has got to support renewable fuels.
today we have high prices for petrol and diesel, but it will be impossible to change unless renewable alternatives are competitive.
we are also fooling ourselves when we promise a europe that would accelerate the development of renewable energies, while we still provide for state aid to nuclear energy which, as we know, absorbs the funds needed for green energies.
we are making up a story to sleep on when we give the green light to recovery plans which, however, remain at the service of companies and sectors whose deployment is incompatible with planetary limits and the climate, and this without any real demand for counterparts, as in france.
there are citizens who are fascinated by a europe that demands international obligations for environmental democracy, while still denying them the right to be properly informed and able to take legal action on state aid and its use.
the commission has estimated that achieving the enhanced 2030 climate targets alone will require investments of up to eur 350 billion each year.
it is also particularly necessary now to target support for improving the environmental performance of buildings and for improving the efficiency of district heating.
this is demonstrated by the major crisis in energy prices that is currently being experienced in many countries.
rather than offering assistance to individual gas burners, it is much more efficient to significantly upgrade both energy efficiency and entire heating systems.
that goes, for instance, for energy efficiency in buildings.
here, of course, support can be given, but that would be if the payback time is more than five years, because within five years, actually there is a very good business case for private investment in energy efficiency in buildings.
this is about energy intensity, because there are challenges when it comes to decarbonisation.
i fully acknowledge the need for reductions when the levies are high – the levies on top of the very cost of producing energy, but also very high levies to support and finance the green transition.
of course, now it’s very difficult to think about such a situation when we have very high energy prices.
but in a situation where prices are more normal, of course, it is important to maintain that there is a price signal for energy efficiency investments to be profitable.
on the debate about nuclear, you will know, of course, that we do not address nuclear energy in these guidelines.
on closure aids for coal: we have a new chapter on closure aids and that allows for support, in particular for social and environmental measures linked to closure, so the exceptional cost.
indeed, to allow for new technologies to get the necessary support to get started, to get the cost curve down, but also in recognising how the previous guidelines have helped us for renewable energies to stand on their own feet.
one of the things that we will also continue considering is, of course, how to make sure that there is ownership, how to make sure that energy communities, that smaller providers can see themselves in an energy system that consist of micro, regional and big players alike to help us preserve our energy security.
(the sitting was suspended at 8.11 p.m.)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the right to a healthy environment (2021/2924 (rsp)).
– madam president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the right to a healthy environment.
we have to acknowledge that environmental degradation, climate change and unsustainable development constitute some of the most pressing and serious threats to the ability of present and future generations to enjoy their human rights.
the resolution, proposed by a core group of countries, including slovenia, recognised for the first time that having a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is indeed a human right.
in view of the important upcoming un conferences – the cop15 on biodiversity that started last week in kunming, and the cop26 in glasgow, scheduled for next month – the european union will continue to work with the rest of the world to protect the climate and nature.
regarding biodiversity, allow me to also welcome the recent kunming declaration, ‘ecological civilization: building a shared future for all life on earth’, from the high-level segment of cop15, including on behalf of the european union.
it contains, inter alia, the commitment to actively enhance the global environmental legal framework and strengthen environmental law at national level to protect biodiversity and combat its illegal use, and to consider, respect and promote human rights when taking action to protect biodiversity.
the eu has its own biodiversity strategy for 2030, which is a comprehensive, ambitious and long-term plan to protect and restore the natural environment and reverse ecosystem degradation.
the strategy aims to put europe’s biodiversity on the road to recovery by 2030, showing that the eu is ready to take the lead in tackling global biodiversity issues.
as far as environmental protection legislation goes, the council looks forward to the commission’s proposal for a revision of the environmental crime directive.
the review of this directive will contribute to the implementation of the goals of the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy, which both stressed the need to strengthen efforts to combat environmental crime.
in this context, it is particularly important that the future directive fully respects and contributes to the preservation of the rights and principles set out in the eu charter of fundamental rights, notably, the fundamental rights enshrined in article 37 on environmental protection in accordance with the principle of sustainable development.
the council is also actively examining the commission’s proposal from last april for a corporate sustainable reporting directive, which is part of the european green deal.
finally, i would like to stress our obligation to respect, protect and promote human rights, including in all actions undertaken to address environmental challenges, and to take measures to protect the rights of all, as recognised in different international instruments.
this is particularly true for the most vulnerable segments of the population that are more acutely impacted by environmental harm.
– madam president, human rights and a healthy environment go hand in hand, and that’s what this debate is about this evening.
it’s true for all, but it’s particularly important for children, women, indigenous peoples and local communities, because these groups are more vulnerable than others to the effects of climate change and environmental degradation, as the minister mentioned.
the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is therefore related to other rights and international obligations and it has a direct impact on our livelihood.
with the european green deal we’ve put tackling climate and environmental challenges at the very top of the european agenda.
there will be no sustainable future or human well-being without tackling this crisis – climate, biodiversity and of course pollution.
the commission welcomes the attention that this parliament is giving to an important matter, and we take good note of your call for a right to a healthy environment in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
the charter sets out the principle of integrating environmental protection into the policies of the union.
it requires that, and i quote, ‘a high level of environmental protection and the improvement of the quality of the environment must be integrated into the policies of the union and ensured in accordance with the principle of sustainable development.’ the commission is fully playing its role and is monitoring the progress made in mainstreaming fundamental rights in all aspects of climate and environmental action.
in the same spirit, existing eu environmental laws contain safeguards to ensure a healthy environment, and the court of justice of the european union has recognised that such legislation gives individuals the opportunity to challenge decisions or omissions by public authorities that infringe these rights.
since it was included in the treaty of amsterdam more than 20 years ago, sustainable development has been one of the fundamental objectives of the european union.
other pieces of eu environmental legislation have specific requirements related to the protection of human health, for example.
these requirements create rights which can be invoked by individuals and environmental associations before national courts.
the court of justice has also confirmed that environmental associations are entitled to bring forward judicial challenges related to the protection of nature.
we are happy to see that this has contributed significantly to finding practical ways to protect, conserve and restore our biodiversity.
we are pursuing different actions to ensure that citizens can obtain information, participate in decision-making and go to court on environmental matters.
more recently, the aarhus regulation was amended by the co-legislators to increase the possibility for civil society and the wider public to scrutinise eu decisions affecting our environment.
we want to improve the health and quality of life of citizens and protect the health and wellbeing of people from environmental-related risks.
at the international level, the eu and its member states are actively promoting discussions in the united nations, including in the context of the un general assembly and in the human rights council, on the right to a healthy environment.
together with member states, we regularly sponsor resolutions on the subject and fully supported the work of the un special rapporteur on the right to a healthy environment.
just last month, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe proposed a draft for an additional protocol to the european convention on human rights – the right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment.
we therefore particularly welcome the resolution adopted by the un human rights council a few days ago, which for the first time recognises the human right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment.
the european union is very much at the forefront of global efforts to fulfil the right to a healthy environment.
an example, the eu action plan on human rights and democracy acknowledges that human rights are increasingly intertwined with global environmental challenges.
in order to achieve the actions in this plan, we will be working to support third countries to fulfil their obligations to protect the environment and the health of their citizens.
we will be doing so by massively investing in green priorities in the eu’s external funding and by delivering on our ambitious spending targets on climate and biodiversity.
this includes doubling the eu’s biodiversity spending, as announced by president von der leyen in her state of the union speech.
another key area to invest in is environmental governance and justice.
human rights laws require states to take special measures to respect, protect and fulfil the rights of those who are most at risk from environmental harm.
access to justice in environmental matters and access to information and public participation in decision-making are fundamental human rights.
they are enshrined in implementing principle 10 of the rio declaration on environment and development and international instruments such as the aarhus convention and the escazú agreement.
i applaud the environmental human rights defenders who are on the frontline protecting the rights of their communities, communities who are often among the first to suffer the effects of environmental degradation and climate change.
the eu provides protection to environmental human rights defenders and indigenous peoples who are facing unprecedented levels of threats and attacks.
sixty-nine percent of them were working on land, indigenous and environmental rights.
since its launch in 2015, protectdefenders.eu has supported almost 12 000 land and environmental rights and indigenous rights defenders, 6 370 of whom were women, representing the main group supported by this eu-funded mechanism.
we need to ensure that every single citizen enjoys their right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment, and i want to give you the assurance that the commission will continue to take action, both locally and globally, to make this a reality.
madam president, climate change is the greatest threat to human health: the same unsustainable choices that are killing the planet are killing people today.
also, as has been recently mentioned, the right to a healthy environment was endorsed as a recognized international right at a historic meeting of the united nations human rights council.
i would say that it is perhaps the most universal of human rights because the environment is not an abstraction, it represents the space in which we humans and all living beings live, and on which our health, our quality of life and the existence of future generations depend; it is a collective and intergenerational right, as the german constitutional court has recently recognized: that is why this house has already asked for its inclusion in article 37 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
citizens have mobilized and are calling for greater protection for this environment: the recognition of the legal personality of the mar menor.
i am saying this as an example because i believe that to make progress in strengthening the legal protection of our ecosystems is to make progress in recognizing and respecting the right to a healthy environment which is the right of present generations, but, let us not forget, also of future generations: it is our heritage, it is the best legacy we can give.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the united nations human rights council has indeed called for the universal recognition of the right to a healthy environment.
but it takes courage, in this case, to put in place a real policy of environmental justice.
what justification can we give for this, for this injustice which is obviously of an environmental nature?
throughout europe, in the former mining areas, the travellers' areas, the refugee camps, the deprived neighbourhoods, environmental injustice reigns and the less wealthy are constantly the most exposed to all forms of environmental violence.
to avoid these, the right to a healthy environment must be recognised in our fundamental standards - the charter, of course, but also a european environmental treaty.
as you will have understood, the fight for the right to a healthy environment is both in line with the great mobilizations for human dignity and in line with the ecological leap forward we must make to protect our planet.
madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by 2025 the right to a healthy environment should be a given for all my compatriots in the five french overseas departments.
this is contrary to the right to a healthy environment which ensures our freedoms and our right to come and go.
today we must be free in a healthy environment and not allow our freedoms to be restricted.
our aim is to ensure a healthy environment for everyone, which means that everyone has access to safe drinking water.
we want to enjoy a healthy environment.
in the name of territorial equity, in the name of article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the name of the right to a healthy environment, i ask you to act and to act swiftly.
madam president of the commission, mr minister, you will always find the renew europe group supportive of finding solutions to rising energy prices.
no, european law does not always take precedence over national constitutions and i think we should introduce a principle of non-regression so that european rules can never lead to a loss of social and ecological rights at national level, as is too often the case.
i also call attention to another top priority: the financing of the ecological and social bifurcation.
europe is preparing to lecture the world at cop26 by claiming to be the champion of climate change, but it stubbornly refuses to go to the money to take action, as in the case of the trillions hidden by the pandora papers thieves in tax havens.
this is the absolute prerequisite for launching the great climate project and fighting inequalities.
let me say one last thing about energy prices: you will not solve the problem of soaring prices until you get out of the logic of the market, in which speculators and shareholders get rich while people pay their profits.
so please, for the people, let's put aside the logic of the market for once and have the courage to organise a blockade of energy and basic commodity prices at european level.
your approach to the energy transition process, your method, is more precariousness, more poverty and less purchasing power for citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the defence of biodiversity and ecosystems, so rich in europe, is our duty to future generations.
against a background of climate culpability, this resolution therefore calls for massive transfers of wealth from the member states to the rest of the world.
once again, we are alone in the battle of the ecology, while most of the world's pollution comes from america and china.
we are constantly being asked to do more while at the same time ratifying harmful free trade agreements, the worst examples of unbridled globalisation and carbon footprints.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all looking forward to glasgow, but it must not be just another meeting for the united nations conference, but a decisive meeting for action to adapt to and combat climate change.
the european union has done its part, with the green deal, the "fit for 55" climate law, which i also agree with those who have said it before me, is our response to the energy crisis, to the rise in energy prices, not the cause.
but unfortunately, only a few days ago china announced that it would further increase the use of coal in its energy mix, following the position already taken by other countries in the world, including industrialized countries.
the cop must therefore be an opportunity to get all international actors to do what the european union has done, by laying out in black and white the commitments they intend to make, starting with a binding and global agreement on the phasing out of coal and an agreement on the disbursement by 2025 of the fund to accompany the global south in the ecological and energy transition.
we have had a health emergency, and now we have a responsibility to prevent the climate emergency that is already happening at our latitudes from causing irreparable damage to our ecosystems and disrupting our lives again.
i am going to the climate summit in glasgow next week, but my greatest fear is that this meeting will again be a meeting of much talk and little workshop.
the eu and the rest of the world must agree to significantly increase their climate ambitions if we are to meet the 1.5 degree target.
more countries must adopt binding climate action targets for climate neutrality by 2050. we have to bring china and india with us.
we should also be at the forefront of the drive for a global price on carbon dioxide.
we need to do our own homework and move quickly on the ambitions of our climate package and the work we are doing right now.
mr president, climate change is a reality and the person who just spoke is also the one who condemns the lives of our children for his populist glory.
and those who link the spike in energy prices to our climate ambitions are playing the petty game of vladimir putin and his ilk.
i am convinced that the future will be essentially renewable.
at european level, it is essential to make the guidelines on state aid for climate, energy and the environment more flexible as soon as possible.
at the world trade organisation level, solutions must be found to remove tariffs on goods used for the production of renewable energy or the improvement of energy efficiency.
ladies and gentlemen, the financing of the fight against climate change and the energy transition presents us with a titanic challenge.
in this context, the european green bond regulation, for which i am responsible in my political group, can really create a climate of confidence and transparency, in order to encourage investors to opt for green bonds.
mr president, commissioner, minister, five years after the paris agreement, the low level of commitment of nations around the world to climate neutrality is alarming.
cop26 will be the barometer of global climate action and it will be essential to reaffirm and even revise the target of limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degrees.
europe must be a major player in urging states to increase their national contributions, to legislate for the climate, to support citizens in this transition while putting in place ambitious strategies in all sectors of the economy.
these are the words of vanessa nakate, a young ugandan woman who spoke a few days ago at the youth climate summit in milan.
we need to change our paradigm, unless we accept that this summer's climate catastrophes are a foretaste of the hell that could be ours tomorrow.
three main objectives for this cop26 to change the trajectory: climate neutrality by 2050 for all g20 countries; at least $100 billion a year to help developing countries - far from it.
quite frankly, many of us here are tired of using superlatives every time we have to talk about climate in this forum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are learning today - and it is finally confirmed today, in 2021 - that one of the largest european companies, total, has known and been aware of the climate consequences of its actions since 1971.
the european union has committed itself to being the first carbon neutral continent by 2050, and that is a good thing.
it is clear that with the climate package, the promises have been translated into concrete actions.
but, on our own, we only account for 10% of global emissions.
the european commission must also show courage in the matter of nuclear energy, which is essential to the achievement of our objectives.
how is it that we still do not know, despite the conclusions of several groups of experts in this field, whether nuclear energy will be included in the taxonomy by the european commission?
how is it possible that at a time of soaring energy prices, of the necessary decarbonisation of our energy mix, we are still faced with the question of supporting low-cost, carbon-free energy?
the recent pandora scandal has also revealed the extent to which the international financial ecosystem, and particularly the european one, is generating tax evasion and contributing to money laundering, which makes the adoption by the commission of the legislative package against money laundering, which meets one of the demands we have long been advocating in the s&d group, all the more important.
we want to see not just a rebound, but a new era of sustained and sustainable growth.
justice, tax, social, climate, it's the same fight and this fight requires a real change of course, a real ambition.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment.
it is our duty to support civil society and the agreement for a haitian solution to the crisis to bring back a climate of security and democracy.
the authorities attempted to discreetly push through a draft law permitting the use of biometric mass surveillance, and there is still a dangerously high level of air pollution caused by coal plants in the region, and when people protest, they are repressed.
i think that we must, on this occasion, vindicate the work of parliament, the constant work of the rapporteurs and the alternative rapporteurs on this report, to finally unlock a key directive which will allow us to have real-time information on the profits and on the taxes that large companies pay and do not pay in europe and which also joins the agreement to set that minimum corporate tax rate of 15%, that international agreement which allows us to have a much more solidary and much more sustainable tax framework.
the european education area is a very suitable environment for the development of concrete tools such as the digital competence framework, the eu education framework, citizenship education, the creation of european centres of excellence in vocational education or the european online university platform.
education has always been and will be the foundation for building more sustainable, more tolerant and more inclusive societies.
how else can we understand the priorities of raising awareness of climate change, fighting populism, denouncing misinformation, i.e.
raising awareness of global warming, which adds anxiety to the anxiety of young people, gender-neutral recreation classes or the hysterical fight against populism.
in 2014, after an unacceptable blackmail by the us judiciary, general electric took over alstom's energy business.
ensuring the health and safety of the patient must be our priority, while remaining attentive to the sustainability of health systems.
we must not, however, sacrifice our environmental and social requirements.
in addition to environmental decontamination, concrete measures must be taken, including the introduction of aid for the conversion of contaminated land and the modernisation and monitoring of drinking water production sites.
for my part, i welcome the improved balance between the cap's economic and environmental ambitions.
these are the conditions for this sector to make an effective contribution to the sustainability of our economy and our planet.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mitigating climate change, combating the collapse of biodiversity, preserving the health of consumers, restoring the quality of vital resources such as water and air, achieving food sovereignty, significantly improving farmers' incomes and reviving the momentum of agricultural settlement are the salutary ambitions of the green deal, the foundation of this mandate, for the commission and for the european parliament.
if we really want to prepare for the future of future generations, we can no longer delay decisions, actions, measures to meet this goal, and we have already started with the validation of strategies for biodiversity and 'from the farm to the fork'.
our agricultural model is the main factor in the collapse of biodiversity.
it is a major contributor to climate change.
the agreement also devotes an unprecedented share of the cap budget to the protection of the environment and biodiversity.
the new common agricultural policy is therefore proof that competitiveness, employment, quality and high environmental objectives can be combined.
as in previous years, the member states were forced to negotiate with their national budgets and demand cuts in health, environmental protection and development aid.
mc12 comes at a critical moment: it has the potential to put the wto on the right reform path, while delivering good results in areas like trade and health, climate action, agriculture, and sustainable fishing.
the eu continues to advocate for a robust agreement that will deliver on the sustainability objectives of these negotiations.
finally on environment and climate, the eu is playing a leading role bringing those issues forward.
we are proposing a paragraph in the ministerial declaration to underline the importance of wto work in this area, and plurilateral statements on environmental sustainability, plastics pollution and fossil fuel subsidies reform.
after 20 years, it should be possible to find a result, and i am really hopeful that this will be one of the key elements of mc12 because this is the integration of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) into the trade regime, and this is also an important signal.
supporting fair and sustainable trade, guaranteeing fair competition between member states - that is the role of the wto.
so let us europeans continue to redouble our efforts to achieve a globalisation that is regulated, fair and sustainable.
progress in establishing a common regional market and implementing a green agenda to align the region with the european union's infrastructure, energy and transport corridors is also included.
when we see the worsening climate change, are we sure that we will not need massive aid to help this or that population hit by this or that disaster?
we all know that negotiations are due to begin shortly to enable the creation of the social climate fund announced by the commission in july.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the climate emergency.
it is time to declare war on climate change and poverty.
so if we don't get new resources out very quickly, in a year or two, when there's another crisis -- refugee crisis, climate crisis, health crisis -- every time we're looking for money, we're going to have to say, "i'm sorry".
one year ago, on 13 november, parliament approved a report - i'll give it back to you, mr vice-president - proposing solutions to finance a real climate plan.
we let the climate go to hell because we didn't want to stand up to a few billionaires?
and among the participants, it's even worse: 503 representatives of the accredited fossil fuel industries, more than the eight countries most affected by climate change combined.
firstly, countries like france, which are working behind the scenes to promote nuclear and gas as green energy sources.
and just a few days after this cop, you can't think of anything better than accepting an agribusiness cap that denies all our climate commitments.
and you know, by the way, they're not saying, well done cap, long live the carbon market and long live finance, but vote this cap down, reject the cap and get out of fossil fuels!
the eu is leading the transition in the world with the climate law, with the green deal, but biden and kerry – the us – also want to share that leadership and it is back in the paris agreement with a new 2050 net zero target.
we met with the climate minister of the maldives, a country with a highest point of 2.4 metres.
it was really touching to hear how climate change is really a matter of life and death.
we are about to fail on covid vaccine deliveries and we failed to reach the climate financing goals.
we cannot spoil it by not reaching the climate financing goals.
the eu must also step up and overachieve on the climate law.
the day after the glasgow climate summit ended, the bbc carried a story that the air in india's capital, delhi, is so polluted that schoolchildren are being forced to stay home indefinitely.
it is good that countries will have to present new and hopefully more ambitious plans as early as next year on how they will deliver on the climate target.
i think, from an international negotiations perspective, glasgow was certainly a step forward, but i think we all acknowledge that not enough has been done yet to reach and avoid the climate crisis.
in the paris agreement, there are three clear targets in article 2.1. it’s on mitigation, it’s on adaptation and it’s on making the financial flows consistent with our climate targets.
states have made many solemn pledges to reduce emissions, and before the end we were offered, like a hollywood movie, a surprise agreement between the united states and china.
the cop26 was marked by the emphasis placed on the environment by the management sector and global firms, since the event was sponsored by unilever, among others.
we talk about growth and green jobs, sustainability, resilience and even gender, when in reality we are talking about more punitive ecology.
to be sustainable, the economy would have to be fully planned.
we are waiting for the next step, the introduction of a carbon budget, a kind of carbon pass on the model of the health pass and the social credit.
meanwhile, the european union will spend money on climate transition in developing countries, including china, while undercutting its own industry.
it will increase its citizens' energy bills through excessive carbon pricing, backed by a complex system of taxes and quotas.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas.
if we are serious about the goal of european climate neutrality by 2050, we need nuclear energy.
this is clearly acknowledged by both the internal services of the commission and the international energy agency.
nuclear energy is good for the climate, it is safe and it makes us less dependent on fickle third countries.
last year, vice-president timmermans had it recorded that he had nothing against nuclear energy, but only as an intermediate solution.
today, the minds seem to be ripe, because commission president von der leyen recently said emphatically that we need nuclear energy.
it is indeed high time that the ambiguity about nuclear energy gave way to clarity.
the commission must be clear-headed, follow the science and recognise nuclear energy as a green resource, including in the taxonomy.
mr president, i personally consider the glasgow cop26 climate summit to be a success if we act in a coordinated and sustained manner.
our most important ally, the us, has said it wants to go in that direction, to stimulate international cooperation on climate, and has announced massive investments.
we europeans need to understand that achieving climate goals means huge investments in digitisation and decarbonisation and, of course, in industry.
it's very important that we treat the environmental, digital and industrial goals on an equal footing, because all of these depend on each other, and obviously we have to understand that innovation, research, digitization and decarbonization are promises for our future.
mr president, thank you very much vice-president timmermans for the hard work that you and your team have done not only in glasgow but also in all the previous months to make sure that we are the most ambitious continent on climate change, and that this is our fight, the fight of the whole world, to convince everyone and permit me to make this plea, on behalf of all the european youth and the youth from all over the world, so that we remain that continent, we will remain that voice which is pushing and is most ambitious in the world when it comes to climate change.
i can understand the anger of young people, i can understand their anger when they see that, because of the past, they know that their future is very unclear at times when it comes to climate.
we are the heart and mind of this battle which we have when it comes to climate.
there are people today who are being affected by climate change.
people are being forced to flee their countries, their cities and their villages, because of climate change.
mr president, mr vice-president, behind the tears of alok sharma, the president of cop26, is this sobering observation: the glasgow climate summit has disappointed.
disappointment too, because the necessary solidarity with the island territories most exposed to climate change has been betrayed.
this summer's events - the deadly floods in germany and belgium, the heat waves across southern europe - should, however, serve as a warning of the climate threat that is hitting everywhere, including, and increasingly, here at home.
the european union must raise its ambitions to avoid its next climate refugee crisis as well.
a cop where rich countries, including the countries of the european union, despite the decisions of their courts, have not raised their climate targets.
the european climate law, according to scientists, is also +2.6 degrees.
so let's stop funding gas immediately, raise our climate targets and finally embark on the investigations and the big lawsuits needed today to do climate justice and do justice to humans.
after six years of mobilization by the international community, friends of the ocean - whom i greet here - the ocean is now anchored in the multilateral regime to combat climate change.
i remind you that one out of every two breaths we take is from the ocean, which absorbs a quarter of our anthropogenic emissions.
when a few states sign a declaration on the sidelines of cop 26 not to include nuclear energy in the taxonomy, it serves neither the european union nor the fight against climate change and it goes against the work of the experts.
the european climate package is nothing less than an industrial revolution.
this is why the rapid implementation of a carbon border adjustment mechanism must be at the heart of our climate action.
of course, we need to continue donations through the act-a and covax devices and remove barriers to the delivery of doses, avoid vaccine waste, increase the purchase of equipment and focus on vaccines that are easy to use.
but the european union's actions must go beyond assistance towards responsible and sustainable solidarity, as you recalled, mr minister, through the logistical contribution to vaccination campaigns, through the training of health professionals, through the sharing of know-how and technologies for vaccine production, through the fight against vaccine hesitancy and disinformation and through the development of an international treaty on pandemics, supported by the director of who, dr tedros, by the president of the council of the european union, charles michel, and which i propose with stella kyriakides in my report on serious crossborder threats to health.
vaccination is the only way to protect humanity from global warming.
– mr president, i’m honoured to present the state of the energy union report to you today.
every year this report provides an opportunity to take stock of our energy policy and to see whether we are on track with implementing the energy union.
since our last report, we have made huge strides in implementing our clean energy agenda in policy and legislative terms.
the eu adopted the european climate law in march, making the reduction of at least 55% of emissions and the goal of climate neutrality by 2050 legally binding.
a few months later, in july, the commission put forward an interconnected package of proposals to put europe on the path to climate neutrality.
this fit for 55 package included a revision of the renewable energy and energy efficiency directives to align them with our new and higher ambition.
this is a concern for citizens, industry and governments across the eu and raises questions about the future of our clean energy agenda.
it is against this backdrop that we come to this year’s state of the energy union report because this report and its annexes provide us with some important indications to assess the progress of the energy union across all its dimensions, but also to chart a response to today’s rising energy prices.
the share of renewable energy sources in the overall eu energy mix is expected to have reached at least 22%.
a better administrative and business environment will be a key in getting more projects off the ground.
second, soaring energy prices remind us that we remain too reliant on fossil fuels in the eu.
this is confirmed by this year’s state of the energy union.
although these subsidies fell in 2020, this is more a reflection of decreased energy consumption overall rather than a new trend.
subsidies are a major impediment to a cost-efficient energy and climate transition and to a functioning energy market.
they should be targeted to boost the uptake of new energy technologies to promote sustainable patterns of energy consumption and to lower energy bills.
this is the most tangible example of the progress made in harmonising national rules on energy trading and system operation.
this is very important in the context of the current energy price spike.
a recent acer report shows that those countries that are better interconnected and less dependent on fossil fuels have remained less vulnerable to energy price volatility.
it would also reduce the need for backup fossil fuel power plants, thus saving significantly on greenhouse gas emissions.
fourth, and finally, the state of the energy union is accompanied by a report on the competitiveness of the clean energy industry in europe.
the report shows that the eu remains at the forefront of clean energy research.
at global level it has a greater share of green inventions in climate change mitigation technologies than other major economies.
the eu is also well placed in terms of global market share in a number of established clean energy technologies such as wind, but global competition remains fierce.
this report shows that we have come a long way in our progress towards a sustainable and competitive energy union, but it’s also a warning that more needs to be done.
i will end my remarks here and look forward to hearing your views on how to make our energy union stronger.
– mr president, the european energy union is based on different pillars, as the commissioner has been highlighting.
but currently, policy agendas are primarily based on climate action and decarbonisation.
the other four pillars of the energy union need to be in place for europe to be successful in 2030. so let’s discuss what needs to happen.
one crucial pillar of the energy union is a fully-integrated internal energy market through, among other things, the development of sufficient infrastructure.
to assure the gradual transformation of our energy system, member states have to develop a gas project for the fifth list of projects of common interest (pci) – the next pci list – which should be compatible also with hydrogen—proof infrastructure for the future.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if i were to take one conclusion from the latest state of the energy union report, it would be that in 2020, renewables have overtaken fossil fuels as the main source of energy in the european union.
this is a very encouraging sign that, yes, the european union is making significant progress in the energy transition.
our greenhouse gas emissions are not falling fast enough and we are far from the climate targets we set ourselves in this house.
as you have pointed out, madam commissioner, our energy dependence is at its highest level in 30 years, with more than 60% of the energy consumed in the european union being imported from third countries, particularly oil and fossil gas.
this is an undeniable problem for our european energy sovereignty.
we therefore need to accelerate our efforts in decarbonised energy and energy efficiency to both reduce our emissions and reduce europe's energy dependence.
i would like to emphasise that all decarbonised energy sources are useful and necessary.
indeed, as is often the case, opposing renewable energy to nuclear energy does not advance our fight against global warming, when both are decarbonised energy sources and, above all, both are cost-competitive, despite what some people claim.
finally, it is important to give priority to local energy production here in europe.
for example, producing hydrogen thousands of kilometres from the european union and then transporting it for consumption in europe is not a sustainable solution.
so let's produce and consume locally as much as we can, in the energy field too.
it is a tragedy that the gas and nuclear lobbies are fighting together to get into the taxonomy that should be devoted to green energy rather than destructive activities.
it is also a shame to see some here in the council clinging to the financing of gas projects in the regional plans, in the stimulus funds, or - as we saw with the council in negotiations last night - in the new regulation on energy infrastructure.
but all the energy infrastructure we are financing today is not going to tie us to fossil fuels for years, but for decades, at the expense of the climate.
i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the fifth list of projects of common interest in favour of a list which is 100% renewable.
and commissioner, we will stand with you in the council to ensure that tomorrow we no longer finance climate-killing infrastructure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of energy we can at least credit the european union for its continuity, for its continuity in error.
in the end, you continue to devastate our landscapes with your wind turbines, on land or at sea, for intermittent, evanescent, exorbitant energy and, finally, because of the lifetime of installations that are difficult to recycle, polluting.
and then there is the question of nuclear energy, which is decarbonised if anything, and which the coal promoters in germany would like, out of pure ideology, to deprive france and germany of.
this religious excommunication denies our countries the means of their power and energy independence.
we have, with french nuclear power, a chain of excellence that ensures cheap, constant, clean electricity, which can be extended to decarbonised hydrogen, when you are stuck with renewable hydrogen.
instead of properly funding services for victims of gender-based violence and enacting adequate legislation to eradicate gender-based violence, the hungarian government spends its energy in rejecting any international or eu text excluding the word gender.
an ideology that is part of the triad, along with climate hysteria and utopian "greenism" of some idea of a new world order that you're trying to impose.
in addition to the dead and wounded, the number of malnourished, undernourished, displaced, unemployed, climate refugees and the various internal and external conflicts is increasing daily.
the country is also on the frontline of climate change, and the frequency and severity of climate related hazards is increasing.
but while the switch has happened, the digital environment has not yet been fully adapted to guarantee online safety for everyone.
the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 14 december 2021. the final vote will be delivered on wednesday, december 15, 2021.
the following is the agenda for the debate on the recommendation for a second reading on the council's first reading position on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on health technology assessment and amending directive 2011/24/eu (10531/3/2021 c90422/2021 - 2018/0018 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr tiemo wölken) (a9-0334/2021).
it provides a comprehensive and sustainable legal framework to make a much—needed step forward and it will deliver concrete benefits to our citizens, our member states and our healthcare systems.
we need more energy and strength now, because we will be discussing this with the french presidency in january.
this year's focus will be on issues that are of particular concern to young people, such as equality, inclusion, the environment, climate change, sustainability, mental health, jobs, internships and the fair pay framework.
some of the young people have already been clear on the climate issue: young people want concrete action.
almost 60% of respondents want climate change to be a key theme of the year.
firstly, the european year of youth will cover a wide range of areas: employment, education, health, climate, digital.
all areas of their lives need to be considered: access to employment, training, their mental health, existing eu programmes - and i would like to highlight the effort that has been made for erasmus+, to open it up more and make it more accessible - and climate change, of course.
in addition to the ever-increasing number of conflicts, climate change will increase the need for humanitarian aid.
we need to work with vulnerable populations and indigenous communities to help them build resilience to climate change.
and even if it is not the direct trigger of humanitarian disasters, climate change is systematically exacerbating existing failures.
good nutrition, as we know, is an accelerator of all the sustainable development goals and determines an individual’s health, the effectiveness of education, a person’s ability to find decent work, to innovate and to take care of one’s environment.
if we want to achieve the sustainable development goals by 2030, or even to make a difference in the world, nutrition is clearly a good place to start.
these famines in madagascar and elsewhere are now aggravated by global warming.
but they didn't wait for global warming to exist.
the main indicators of sustainable growth have declined over the past year.
without that, there is no sustainability.
mr president, commissioner, by raising the question of energy poverty, you are discussing a real problem: the current explosion in the cost of energy - gas, electricity, fuels - is creating a legitimate climate of revolt in my country.
to deal with this situation, europe will have an instrument, the social climate fund.
for them, being used in a circus means being deprived of their natural environment, being subjected to violent training from an early age, being exhibited in stressful acts against their nature, and being subjected to repeated transportation when the circus is on the road.
china is not only exploiting copper in this country without respect for the environment, it is also exploiting people without respect for their dignity.
a red cloud of pollution is hovering over the city.
but there is no doubt either that it is not by aligning itself with beijing and moscow, against the interests of its own people, and disregarding the protection of workers and the environment, that the serbian government is advancing serbia's accession to the european union.
(the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question is the balance to be struck between the sustainable supply of our markets and the absolute right of states to control the flows of people and goods entering their territory.