mr president, in this resolution, the overwhelming majority of culture meps agree that to support our heritage we must support the people of the sector and tackle challenges such as climate change, illegal possession and trafficking, which have increased amidst the pandemic, but also challenges in the digital transition.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
significantly enhance rail transport and create infrastructure across the network for the penetration of sustainable alternative fuels, such as electricity and hydrogen from renewable energy sources.
so there are no margins, there are no magic solutions: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
in addition to the benefits of flexibility, time savings, reduced air pollution due to reduced mobility and the protection of the health of vulnerable groups, teleworking poses a major challenge to industrial relations by introducing new data and imposing new obligations between employers and workers, often at the expense of the latter.
it's a very important step towards sustainability, an important goal for the completion of the green deal.
we all know that the earth is not inexhaustible but is a set of finite resources, which requires their rational, sustainable and equitable exploitation.
i come from a country where waste management is a problem.
as a social democrat, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the green transition is socially and economically sustainable.
it must be possible to achieve a climate-neutral europe that creates new jobs and protects our environment at the same time.
we are showing the rest of the world that a sustainable society is possible: by requiring companies to make production sustainable, by making it easier for consumers to choose the sustainable solutions, and by working even more closely together on recycling our shared resources across borders.
this is a sustainable europe!
moreover, the member states should include resilience in their national climate and energy plans by building waste strategies and policies and robust scientific data, improving the comparability of eu statistics.
the eu ecolabel could be used as a benchmark for environmental sustainability.
that’s why it’s so important to facilitate members states like my country, greece, to create extended producer responsibility schemes with the eco-modulation of fees and tax incentives and other financial incentives promoting sustainable consumer choices.
first, on plastics, within the new circular economy action plan, we will ensure the swift implementation of the 2018 eu plastics strategy, and it will take follow-up measures – measures to restrict the use of intentionally added micro-plastics in products and to tackle unintentional emissions, for example, from textiles and tyre abrasion, and from primary plastic production.
it will also include requirements to ensure that all plastic packaging in the eu market is reusable or recyclable and in an economically viable manner by 2013, along with requirements on recycled content and waste-reduction measures, taking into account the activities of the circular plastics alliance.
now, on textiles, we are addressing the textile sector due to its strategic position in the eu economy and its large environmental impact.
it’s not unusual that the circular economy agenda is led jointly at national level by the ministries for the environment and for the economy or industrial policy.
no circular economy without a sustainable single market.
there can be no circular economy without sustainable production and consumption.
it is essential to: strengthen europe's strategic autonomy and make europe a global leader in the green transition; investing, including in r&d, in sustainable products and services; to have the right to make reparation; to improve consumer information, in particular through harmonised labelling; to promote the uptake of green and innovative products by public procurement; to put an end to practices leading to planned obsolescence; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between them.
the transition to a circular economy would reduce the burden on the environment, but would also increase gdp and benefit the economy.
as up to 80% of the environmental impact of a product is determined during the design phase, the design phase is particularly important.
products and packaging must be designed to produce not waste but circulating material.
in other words, the waste must be designed out according to the 'design out waste' principle.
the product policy must be based on sustainable, safe and non-toxic materials.
we need science-based and binding medium- and long-term targets for reducing the use of primary raw materials and environmental impacts to bring the eu economy to the limits of the planet's carrying capacity by 2050.
in writing.
– i fully support this report because it is needed for a successful circular economy in the eu to: encourage cooperation between governments, industry, local authorities and civil society to achieve circularity in products and services at every stage of their lifecycle; support innovative approaches for an efficient and responsible use of resources; support models and practices that expand the useful life of products; promote regulatory action that ensure large-scale availability of economically competitive secondary raw materials, for the relevant waste streams, enabled by intra-eu waste shipments; ensure legislation for a circular economy; promote educational consumers campaigns; consider the environmental performance of manufacturing processes and products in green public procurement decisions; provide market surveillance and law enforcement authorities with sufficient capabilities to enforce product regulations and environmental standards.
the best available science, including our very own parliamentary research services, explicitly links the increased periodicity and intensity of zoonotic epidemics to anthropogenic biodiversity loss.
for years, however, best available science has been warning us of the apocalyptic consequences of anthropogenic climate change.
we cannot afford to fail to prepare again, for there is no vaccine for climate catastrophe.
to some extent they may be justified by the unprecedented and complex international health environment.
we can prove that together we can overcome obstacles, win difficult battles and respond to our leadership role in the global environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr gentiloni, our political commitments under the paris agreement and the european green deal for the transition to climate neutrality require a number of policies to be reviewed with the appropriate legislative tools.
our agreements with third countries must not export pollution, cause biodiversity loss and support human rights violations.
the absence of a global carbon price creates distortions in the global market.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy.
the mechanism should therefore be combined with the gradual withdrawal of free allowances in industry with a view to its climate modernisation and global leadership.
madam president, commissioner, to ensure a rapid and sustainable recovery, investment programmes such as investeu need to have the appropriate resources, and here i would like to say that we are not satisfied with the final agreement and the substantial cut imposed by the council.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of climate change mitigation and adaptation.
we want investeu to finance projects that will make a real contribution to climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
the use of the classification criteria should be mandatory for the monitoring of climate and environmental investments.
secondly, to focus on creating new and sustainable jobs in the regions whose main industry is tourism.
third, the transition regions to take advantage of the programme and the just transition fund to integrate into their strategic plans and the necessary public and private investments, thus achieving our commitment to climate change by 2050. finally and most importantly, the programme should support the new european industrial strategy by supporting projects aimed at the productivity, entrepreneurship and competitiveness of the european union.
the courageous initiatives and funding programmes already announced and under way at european level will of course go a long way towards ensuring that economies are restarted, provided, of course, that national governments use these funds to boost entrepreneurship, to stimulate healthy competition in a transparent and rule-of-law manner and that they do not waste them.
these overwhelming data confront us with the need to focus the european semester more on the concept of social sustainability, but also the need to adopt social policies that contribute to the reduction of poverty, inequalities, access to services and the provision of equal opportunities in employment, education and training, which in turn will allow us to seize the unique opportunities that the digital transformation of our economy brings, but also to address possible short-term or long-term consequences for our society.
this is the way to achieve the sustainable development of europe as enshrined in the treaties of the european union with a view to full employment and social progress.
the driving force of the economy is market psychology and, to reverse the bad climate, a bold economic stimulus must be given in time.
mr president, however much the city authorities may try to dress them up in 'environmental-friendly' garb to be accepted by the workers, the same resources are anti-people taxes at the expense of the people's income to pay off the european recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework that the groups will develop.
the same resources are part of the hard "accounting" that the people will bear, while parts of them, such as digital taxes and the carbon tax, are further used to reward european monopolies in their fierce confrontation with their competitors from the us and china, with the costs being passed back to the people.
with a broader scope, it will support more european workers who have lost their jobs due to globalisation, technological or environmental changes.
therefore, areas where there can be a common ground of cooperation between the eu and india, particularly on trade and investment, should be thoroughly explored in order to enhance the connectivity of the two partners, while not compromising on climate change, digital transformation, maritime safety and human and labour rights.
mr president, commissioner, i am particularly pleased to welcome today's agreement on the new generation of the life framework programme for the environment and climate action, which is now in line with the ambitious objectives of the european green deal and with a 60% larger budget.
the protection of nature and biodiversity remains at the heart of the programme, which will continue to fund projects to strengthen the protection of natura 2000 sites, as well as projects in line with the new european biodiversity strategy.
the new provision for strategic nature projects will create synergies with the other union financial instruments and, in particular, with the new common agricultural policy which should contribute to the objectives of the farm-to-food strategy for a sustainable and resilient food system.
the four new sub-programmes will give life to projects on nature and biodiversity, the circular economy, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and the energy transition.
the new life will support projects to improve energy efficiency, but also to develop small-scale renewable energy sources.
it will make a key contribution to the circular economy action plan by providing resources for recycling and resource recovery projects from waste and 'naturally' projects for air, soil, water and chemical management, with a view to zero pollution, will be eligible.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
as regards transport, which accounts for 30% of the total energy consumption in the european union, the aim is to switch to direct or indirect electrification as a matter of priority wherever possible.
to achieve this requires huge investments in energy infrastructure right now in our roads, in our ports, in our airports, and even in our homes to prepare for electrification.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
these resources must remain in europe and be used for the production of renewable energy sources with the participation of all citizens and not just a few companies.
a very good example mentioned in the report is the energy communities in the tourism sector and the wider industry's shift towards sustainability through energy production and higher efficiency.
madam president, commissioner, the just transition fund is a crucial tool for the demining of regions which have been sacrificed on the altar of economic development and electrification of europe, with incalculable consequences for the environment and the health of their inhabitants.
the just transition mechanism is a compass for all public investment policies on the path to climate neutrality.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one.
the protection of personal data, trade union presence and action in the new digital environment, i.e.
mr president, mr vice-president, the european parliament has long given priority to the development of the field of artificial intelligence, with the aim of promoting innovation and competitiveness and at the same time establishing a climate of consumer confidence, while ensuring the protection of human rights and european values.
however, this programme should be only the beginning and should be accompanied by permanent tools modelled on the sure instrument, in order to cope with possible future crises but, above all, to achieve sustainable development of the european union and to show in practice that the building of a strong social europe is at the heart of our policies.
established gender stereotypes and prejudices, the entrenched practice of 'exclusion' of women from the opposite sex that prevails in these fields, especially in high-level positions, discouragement often reinforced by the school and family environment, fear of failure and lack of information and promotion of female standards are some of the factors limiting the options and development of women in stem fields.
to the contrary, we should do our best to ensure disabled people’s access to the open labour market and inclusive employment instead of only promoting employment in a protected, segregated environment or social enterprises.
the climate law is the most important law in europe.
it is our path to climate neutrality.
during the trilogue, we faced the unwillingness of the council to comprehend the nature of the situation, and we arrived at a result that is far from the position of the ep, but also far from the demands – the dictates – of science and the demands of society and the right of youth to climate security that high courts are establishing all over europe right now.
madam president, despite your hypocritical concerns, the climate bill is shaped by big business interests and is a tool to shield the profitability of green energy groups, the digital transition.
such regulations wash away environmental crimes with the approval of all governments, such as imperialist wars, surrender of land, forests, to green capitalists, grass-type wasps, burning garbage for electricity destroying the environment and burdening public health.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected.
it is in the struggle for a radically different path of development for the modern needs of the people, such as life in a truly human environment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the public sector debt transition is the third important instrument of the just transition mechanism to help, in particular, regions and municipalities to face the challenges of climate change.
the success of the european green deal depends on effectively addressing the socio-economic challenges that will arise in this process towards climate neutrality.
the anti-people politics of contradictions and anti-unionism feeds fear, hesitation, irrationality, undermining vaccination, while the debate on patents in a controlled environment of vaccines and medicines by monopoly groups signals a new round of profiteering and competition.
mr president, commissioner, i think we have all come to understand that climate ambition is essential in all policy areas.
however, state aid should not be granted unconditionally: must be accompanied by commitments to the economic, social and environmental sustainability of the sector.
it is appropriate to try to disorientate under the pretext of climate change in order to fuel the eu's cost-benefit strategy, which has been implemented by all governments, as well as the current strategy of the new republic, a strategy that strips and commercialises civil protection services, which considers the necessary protection projects ineligible and which hands over the forests for exploitation to monopoly groups.
mr president, the effects of climate change are now evident.
to appreciate the scale of the ecological disaster, it is enough to mention that, since the fires of last august alone, over a million acres of forest have been burned to ashes, hundreds of animals have been burned, and many people have seen their livelihoods destroyed.
the greek government attaches great importance to tackling climate change, taking concrete initiatives, but what is needed now is a holistic and unified european policy to prevent and immediately address these extreme phenomena that threaten the safety and life of all of us.
mr president, we all experienced a summer of social, economic and environmental devastation, even in countries with state-of-the-art public infrastructure and civic protection capabilities.
the climate can no longer be called force majeure.
we have our first climate refugees.
the just transition mechanism guarantees that no one would be left behind, that the energy transition is guided by climate justice.
the same must hold true for the people whose lives are destroyed by anthropogenic climate disasters.
the deadly floods in northern europe and the uncontrolled fires in southern europe leave no room for misinterpretation of the consequences of climate change, which are becoming more devastating every year.
in greece, this year's fires caused enormous ecological damage, burning 1.5 million acres and trapping the fire-affected areas in an economic and social impasse.
in the long term, in the context of adaptation to the climate crisis, new european tools must be created and resources secured, both for the prevention of natural disasters and for the rehabilitation of affected areas and support for local communities.
gentlemen, we cannot afford to waste any more time.
mr president, food systems have a unique potential for transition to sustainability, which is critical to the success of all global goals.
this is not only our debt to future generations, but also a real opportunity to create a new production and consumption model that ensures resilient food systems and climate neutrality and provides good food for all, with fairness for producers and respect for the earth.
one in three women has experienced the nightmare of gender-based violence, often in the family environment, without the necessary protection, justification and support.
in october 2020, the european union strategy for sustainable tourism, adopted last march, called for a common vaccination certificate, as well as a common and non-discriminatory european union protocol on safety and health.
we all know that the pandemic is not over yet, and the future holds unprecedented challenges for the tourism industry, especially in the context of combating the climate crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we need to rapidly increase investment in energy transition, in cheap and clean energy production and deep savings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels.
the commission should immediately consider bold pan-european measures to extend the social tariff, reduce vat on energy and price the domestic energy.
the increase in electricity prices, due to the rapid increase in natural gas prices, as well as the prices of emission allowances, within the european emissions trading system, brings the issue of energy poverty in europe and the world into focus.
this phenomenon not only affects european energy consumers and particularly the most vulnerable social groups, but also jeopardises the objectives of the european green deal to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. it is therefore a matter which requires a pan-european approach and an immediate solution.
the greek government has already tabled a specific proposal for the establishment of a transitional compensation fund to deal with the effects of the increase in energy prices.
according to the greek minister responsible, kostas skrecas, the fund will draw revenues from the auctions through the emissions trading system, which will then be distributed to the member states, proportionately and according to specific criteria.
i am convinced that he should do the same now with his proposal to deal with the energy crisis in an effective and sustainable way.
secondly, in case that this does not succeed, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable and fair distribution of certain obligations among member states while strengthening practical cooperation among them.
the spread of organic farming and the setting of binding targets for the drastic reduction of chemicals in fertilisers, pesticides and antibiotics on the farm are essential to ensure that the food on our plate not only does not burden our health, the environment and natural resources, but also offers new prospects for farmers.
the key to success will be to provide consumers with substantial information on scientifically based nutrition labels and on the environmental footprint of food.
– mr president, as our resolution states, it is vital that the cop26 forge a new consensus on the necessary climate action and ambition to achieve global climate neutrality by the mid—century, and on robust short-term and medium-term policy measures.
in our resolution, we acknowledge and commit to act upon our responsibility for our historical greenhouse emissions and the development gap between the global north and the global south.
we recognise the connection between the underlying causes of pandemics, biodiversity loss and climate change.
we admit that, taken together, all new indices, including our own, imply a sizeable increase in global emissions unfit for 1.5. we commit to a significant additional increase in adaptation finance, prioritising grants and debt relief.
we submit that the eu’s leadership through example is crucial to engaging third countries in the fight against climate change.
as it stands our resolution probably represents the most progressive and ambitious mandate on climate action in the world.
mr president, the debate ahead of cop26 is using the degradation of the environment as a pretext to promote the 'green transition' being adopted by the eu, the us and china, despite their differences over who gets the biggest slice of the pie.
green energy liberalisation, desalination and the closure of hydroelectric plants, the monoculture of renewable energy with the sole criterion being the profits of the groups, are driving precision, energy poverty and leading to very expensive and inaccessible 'green' public housing.
these, as well as the consequences of the imperialist interventions of the eu, the usa and nato, the loss of thousands of lives and the destruction of the environment are taken for granted.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a welcome step forward in the fight against pollution and the protection of the environment.
despite competition within the european union, penetration into the region for trade and energy corridors is increasing, american bases are being strengthened and competition is intensifying with russia, which is promoting the interests of its own monopolies and has a military presence, and with china, which is penetrating with powerful economic groups in the context of the integration of the balkans on the silk road.
and i am confident that actions for the digital transformation of education, such as those included in the greek recovery plan, are making a decisive contribution towards this, towards an education that truly promotes sustainable economic growth and social progress for all.
it is ‘critical’ to have a ‘green deal’ to deal with the inevitable consequences of climate change and global warming.
it is now ‘critical’ that we reduce our reliance on a handful of non-eu countries by supporting sustainable investments that involve european and global partners and smes as part of a long-term international sourcing strategy.
we need to control waste streams and exports of waste products.
we expect ambitious national plans that will provide opportunities for adaptation to climate change and halt the collapse of biodiversity.
the new cap also incorporates a new environmental ambition, reflected in new instruments such as eco-schemes, which, together with other measures, build the safety net needed to support farmers in the transition to production practices and techniques that allow for better preservation of natural resources, protection of biodiversity, and the fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, i think that if we are thinking about the future of agriculture, we have to keep in mind three big objectives: how do we reduce emissions and pollution, how do we produce healthier food, how do we regenerate the rural environment.
firstly, we have the greenest common agricultural policy in history with a 25% allocation to eco-schemes and an improved system of environmental and social conditionalities.
in glasgow, the paris agreement rulebook was finalised, and now the framework for international cooperation for climate action is finally operational.
and this road to climate justice dictates that radical restructuring of the international financial is needed in order to unlock the trillions required and including the end of fossil fuel subsidies.
mr president, ambitious climate policies require equally ambitious policies to support the transport needs of citizens.