is this vaccine solidarity to be seen as the energy, climate solidarity that is being broken by germany in front of the eyes of the entire european union?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
all these spaces represent ideal conditions for the development of renewable energy sources, they represent ideal conditions for the development of organic agriculture.
let it be a beautiful green croatian ecological belt and let it be rich as it is beautiful.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
the second reason why this is historic is that we are connecting this recovery plan with the transformation of our economy and in particular with the green deal: 37% of these investments will be for the climate and 100% of the european money must not harm the environment and the climate.
it also very much touches the transport sector, where we have a huge opportunity to take the environment-friendly approach to mobility, but particularly taking into account that co2 emissions in transport are still very high in proportion to other branches of the economy.
fourth, for its ambitious policy agenda on climate and digital transitions.
it is key for ensuring successful, sustainable and inclusive recovery so that europe emerges stronger and more resilient from the crisis.
it reinforces the green dimension, particularly by improving the methodology for climate tracking.
european money needs to start flowing to member states to help in their recovery, support their businesses and people, and re-start their economies in a direction that is sustainable and resilient.
first of all, the recovery and resilience facility is arguably the cornerstone of targeted and sustainable recovery to 'recover' from the pandemic, so to speak, but also to move our economy forward in a sustainable way.
i would like to end with a request: please do not waste any more time and this is a message to the member states.
we have achieved a great deal as a parliament in the negotiation of this regulation and i would like to highlight this: greater climate ambition, with a new methodology for calculating climate expenditure: with a no-harm principle, which will exclude the large part of polluting investments; with greater involvement of local and regional authorities in the management of the funds, also with new social objectives.
they comply with the rules of climate spending; they comply with gender equality, which is something that we are concerned about in the execution of the plan as well.
i regard this fund as a new opportunity for the commission to steer this instrument, to ensure that the quality, sustainability and effectiveness of the projects are guaranteed.
extend the suspension of the stability pact until 2023 and replace it with a realistic cohesion and sustainable development pact.
digital transformation and long-term sustainability are no longer a matter of choice but a necessity.
covid-19 has also increased demographic challenges, which represent perhaps the greatest threat to the sustainability of the european way of life in the future.
a small 3% of the european population is vaccinated, 40% in israel, 10% in the united states, in a complicated climate, but that's another debate.
moreover, the european council conclusions from december 2020 have raised the issue of eu-level measures to prohibit electricity from nuclear power plants from third countries which do not fulfil eu-recognised nuclear safety standards, and the commission services are carrying out analyses on whether obligations under international law and national prerogatives on nuclear energy leave scope for measures at eu level concerning electricity imports from third countries.
belarus is party to the relevant international atomic energy agency (iaea) nuclear safety conventions, including the convention on nuclear safety, and is bound by their requirements.
this has accelerated belarus' decision to build a power plant in astrava with the aim of selling energy to lithuania.
so in order to communicate with their environment, they necessarily rely on facial expressions and facial recognition.
to raise awareness of this problem, it is essential to promote the wearing of transparent masks made of transparent material that allow hearing-impaired people to communicate with their environment.
trade policy is an instrument to make globalisation fair and sustainable.
we have to step in and make sure that the fundamental workers' rights, the environmental standards issue, the paris climate agreement issue really becomes the benchmark for business action across the supply chain.
we share the ambition of horizontal legislative action at european level to implement the union's commitments to a transition to a fairer and more sustainable economy in practice.
we see a clear momentum across europe towards a legislative proposal, a sustainable corporate governance, and the commission will deliver on this.
the objective of the commission is to foster a sustainable, fair and competitive eu economy as we recover from the current crisis.
we want to incentivise, outside europe, good practices that protect the environment in line with our international commitments and our efforts on climate change and environmental protection.
many eu companies are seriously committed to preventing adverse sustainability risks and impacts throughout their value chains, thereby contributing to addressing key societal challenges.
ample economic evidence shows that sustainable companies, those properly integrating the interests of their stakeholders including workers into their decision-making and paying attention to their environmental and social impact, often perform better, are more productive and more resilient.
sustainable corporate governance is part of the overall transformation towards a more sustainable and inclusive economy, and it can contribute to companies' resilience and performance in the long term.
companies should carry out sustainability due diligence proportionate to their capabilities, to mitigate social, human rights and environmental harm in their business operations and supply chains.
the commission will present its legislative proposal on sustainable corporate governance later this year.
the introduction of a duty of care instrument is essential to ensure respect for human rights, labour rights and environmental standards, both within and beyond the european union.
the second is that the obligation to respect and protect human rights, the environment and to avoid corruption risks must be integrated throughout global value chains, products, services and trade relations.
finally, the chapters on sustainable development and free trade agreements must become binding and enforceable.
but it's worth it for the purpose we're trying to achieve here, which is that mandatory due diligence is the important step here, to create more accountability in a european union, including human rights and environmental supply chains.
the hyper-globalisation we have witnessed in recent decades has also led to economic, social and environmental disruptions that are harmful to all.
for example, it has allowed companies to relocate to countries with lower social, fiscal or environmental standards, leaving thousands of protected workers behind and exploiting workers who have no protection at all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the pursuit of profit is a legitimate aim for business, but it must not be achieved at the cost of deliberate violations of human rights or environmental destruction.
they call for justice, but, the same companies are in the forefront, calling for mandatory human rights and environmental due diligence legislation in the eu.
by consulting key stakeholders in their business environment, companies become aware of the most important human rights and environment risks in their entire value chain.
the direct implementation of this regulation ensures that construction products achieve their declared performance taking into account the health, safety and environmental aspects associated with their use, and i am therefore placing particular emphasis on the safety of construction products.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the sustainable development of the baltic sea region, which is based on the principles of sustainable development and sustainable development of the baltic sea region.
at least half of all cancers are caused by our environment, by what we eat, by what we breathe, by the cross-exposures we have.
that is why europe has a real responsibility and must rationalise its fight against chemical pollution, endocrine disruptors, electromagnetic waves, including, of course, 5g, which is classified as a possible carcinogen by the who.
timely, temporary and targeted measures will allow us to move towards a return to sustainable budgets in the medium-term, ensuring debt sustainability while also enhancing investment.
we have already proposed over 90 billion of support out of a total envelope of 100 billion and 19 member states asked for this support despite the very low interest rate environment we are in.
to do this, we need two things: structural reforms and investments that significantly increase the potential for growth, including, of course, in the areas of sustainability and digitization.
madam president, commissioners, mr dombrovskis, mr schmit, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, the union, which has been mired in the health and economic crisis for a year, must anticipate future challenges such as the climate crisis.
after months without a clear position from parliament, i naturally welcome agreement and support in this respect for the extension of the scope of the semester to the union's climate, environmental and social objectives.
the eu has greatly invested in sustainable development, peace and stability in the region.
but rural areas also have to keep pace with climate change, social and economic challenges.
for example, ladies and gentlemen, one positive aspect is the issue of climate.
i am convinced that rural areas will be the first in the european union to achieve climate neutrality, because they not only emit emissions, but are able to capture carbon through growing forests, grasslands and arable land.
the fact that concrete is being used, that biodiversity is being destroyed, does not mean that rural areas have to do all this.
secondly, we need to make the cap work for real farmers, to encourage young farmers, to protect biodiversity.
and also to our colleagues on the conservative side and also to the governments: yes, rural areas can contribute a lot to climate change.
the cap must be climate-friendly.
ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the vision for rural areas, it is impossible, apart from agriculture, to mention energy.
the density of the energy source is a key factor in this.
for much of the past, energy was based on wood, on biomass, and 90 percent of people lived in rural areas.
now we go back to low-density energy sources, which require a lot of space.
that can't happen with energy.
the energy money must stay in rural areas, which are its main source of future.
this transition obviously also needs to be in line with the targets set in the european green deal, by turning green challenges into investments and opportunities in order to achieve a more sustainable, inclusive and resilient economy.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure the protection of the health of workers and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we can't waste any more time.
better education, better climate change, digital transformation of public and private businesses, transport, tourism, industry, medicine, the whole economy and the whole industry.
the just transition fund is a key instrument to support the areas most affected by the transition to climate neutrality and to avoid greater regional disparities.
the proposal for more sustainable and green technologies represents an opportunity for the development of the european economy, but, let's be honest, it also comes at a high cost, affecting the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs in the global market.
we need to show solidarity with europe's most vulnerable regions to make the transition to cleaner energy as simple, efficient and painless as possible.
it is important to create new high value-added jobs, foster innovation, strengthen our energy independence and provide security for the economy and for those who matter most, our citizens.
the global energy transition is inevitable, with the need to ensure higher quality and more sustainable growth and competitiveness for the european economy, cleaner and more accessible energy for our citizens, and a healthier environment and a safer planet for future generations.
it's a triumph of bureaucratization, waste of money and obsessive control by politicians, with the danger of passport permanence.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our society is facing many environmental challenges, such as the depletion of natural resources and climate change.
the negative consequences of uncontrolled business in the form of environmental incidents are increasingly calling for more effective control of business in the private sector.
in seeking to reduce its environmental impact, each company should pursue a combined approach that takes into account the direct and indirect economic, social, health and environmental consequences of its decisions and activities.
the commission has also identified a number of areas where the environmental impact of the use of energy is likely to be significant.
we need to be focused on preventing harm by strengthening the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle, creating a level playing field for businesses and ensuring that taxpayers do not bear the cost to the environment.
in this respect, the main objective should be to achieve a balance between environmental and business interests.
by administrative measures and fines, we can encourage companies to act with due care and their overall corporate social responsibility, and in this way leave a cleaner environment and a safer planet for future generations.
mr. chairman, the idea of the aarhus convention is the right of the people to be consulted and to participate in environmental issues.
just these days, colleagues, the tender for the lučino razdolje waste management center was cancelled.
in croatia, the karst goes all the way from samobor to konoval, and this is an area larger than slavonia and represents a great wealth for the development of agriculture, and that is extensive and ecological which is the future.
this scandalous policy destroys competition, stifles entrepreneurial freedom and, most importantly, instead of sustainable forest management, we have the devastation of life, the devastation of rural space, the devastation of plant, animal, economic and ultimately human life.
competition policies are one of the main competencies of the european union, and as a socialist i am very glad that today we are debating a report that takes into account that competition rules are not only about regulating to ensure fair conditions, but also about the role they play in the achievement of the digital and the environmental transitions.
even each justified state aid must be in line with the green deal, with the sustainable development goals and our pillar of social rights.
in france, 100% of large enterprises have received exceptional public aid, without any ecological or social conditions.
and this without compensation, without leakage, but with concentration of wealth, with layoffs, with tax evasion and opacity, with denial of the climate emergency.
the present report highlights some important elements related to our competitive environment, our growth potential and our relationship with major international players.
and this is why, as of today, we have launched a consultation on the climate, energy and environmental aid guidelines.
the digital environment is not geographically limited, which means that our understanding of the sector needs to be updated independently, especially with regard to large technology companies.
the next item is the report (a9-0179/2021) by mr césar luena, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the 'eu biodiversity strategy for 2030' and 'returning nature to our lives' (2020/2273 (ini)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, biodiversity loss is one of the greatest challenges of our time.
i therefore welcome and applaud the high level of ambition expressed in the objectives and targets set out in the biodiversity strategy and which my colleague, mr césar luena, has accompanied in his report.
an ambition that seeks to awaken political action that is truly transformative and generates a path to greater sustainability.
agriculture, of course, as a natural resource management activity, is deeply intertwined with biodiversity, anchoring its productivity and resilience in it.
it must therefore be at the forefront of concrete and effective actions to protect biodiversity, which are also fair and equitable and do not underestimate its social dimension.
the effort to promote biodiversity is an effort of all.
– mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mr luena, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but also the committees for opinion – the committee on international trade, the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on fisheries and the committee on foreign affairs – for their engagement and in—depth work on this very important report.
biodiversity is truly a cross—cutting issue and we can only succeed in reversing its decline if we have all the relevant actors on board.
when the commission published the eu biodiversity strategy in may last year, it drew on a clear scientific evidence.
healthy nature shapes the environment and the climate in which humanity can thrive.
science is telling us that biodiversity, the unique fabric of life on the earth, is under intolerable strain.
decades of unsustainable human activities have changed our climate, altered ecosystems, polluted our environment, over—exploited species and caused the spread of invasive alien species.
we would undermine our chances of coping with climate change.
looking back on the first year of implementing the biodiversity strategy and the impressive list of deliverables, i can see a lot has been done but we still have so much more to do.
we are making progress on the implementation of 100+ actions which we committed to deliver by 2030. the commission has drafted guidance and engaged with national authorities and stakeholders in the design of measures to implement the eu biodiversity commitments.
we’re working with member states to ensure that biodiversity will be high on the list of national priorities when funding and investment decisions are made under eu long—term budget, in particular under common agricultural policy funds, as well as in the national recovery and resilience plans.
the process for preparing the post—2020 global biodiversity framework at the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in china is also gathering speed.
we now have to leverage this position and build a coalition for a global biodiversity framework that can achieve the vision of living in harmony with nature, in tandem with the world’s efforts to tackle climate change.
we know what needs to be done to put the eu and global biodiversity on the path to recovery.
this is our chance to demonstrate that effective protection, restoration and mainstreaming of biodiversity throughout all sectors is possible and brings tangible benefits to all.
as regards the external angle, sustainability is a central pillar in the trade policy review communication of the commission of february 2021. it aims to further enhance the contribution of trade in achieving the objectives of the european green deal, while of course respecting our international obligations.
the ambition of the biodiversity strategy was endorsed by the council, and i very much look forward to seeing also the european parliament’s resolution adopted.
mr president, commissioner, a resounding, loud and clear yes to a biodiversity strategy, but a not equally resounding, loud and clear no to a strategy which not only does not take account of farmers and fishermen, but goes further and points to them as the cause of all evil.
any strategy should involve the sectors which are critical to providing food for an ever-growing population and take account, in addition to environmental aspects, of economic and social aspects.
we cannot accept that the finger of blame should be pointed at a sector such as fishing or certain of its arts, while ignoring many other activities which are infinitely more harmful to ecosystems and biodiversity.
i would ask you today to support the report which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment and to vote against the amendments tabled in the plenary, because in the committee on the environment we have worked in an ambitious, balanced and consensual process.
and in order to be able to act in this direction, we must speak - of course we must - about agriculture, forestry and european forests, which are not just a collection of trees, but a precious ecosystem which must be maintained and which must be within european competence.
the waste is, unfortunately, found in caves and pits a mile deep and on the bottom of a sea that is increasingly looking like a dump.
in the environment, it shrinks to smaller and smaller pieces of microplastics, and then smaller and smaller pieces of nanoplastics, which enter all the pores of life.
the biggest blow to biodiversity in recent times is certainly the covid crisis waste, and i'm talking about masks first and foremost.
in february this year, the european commission adopted a european climate resilience strategy, which rightly notes that climate change has a direct impact on job losses in the fisheries sector.
add to this the particularly worrying negative impact that climate change is having on biodiversity and fisheries.
i say this as someone who comes from croatia, a maritime country that boasts a centuries-old fishing tradition, and is part of the mediterranean that is particularly vulnerable to climate change today.
the emergence of 52 species is a consequence of climate change.
i would like to mention the emergence of invasive algae of the genus caulerpa whose progressive spread is facilitated by the increase in temperature, which are destroying the biodiversity of the adriatic sea and affecting its economic viability.
to protect our fishermen, who are sadly dwindling today, we need to develop a europe that is resilient to climate change.
however, the strategy of february lacks concrete proposals on what exactly the european commission plans to do to boost the resilience of fisheries to climate change.
record investment opportunities are for empowering digital infrastructure, applying artificial intelligence, renovating schools, hospitals and residential buildings, but above all for creating a better environment for smes and those who create added value.
i don't want to waste time and energy explaining to those who don't have the truth and the scientific evidence, but i still have to say a few words about that, too.
the international conference on population and development (icpd) in cairo committed to achieving the sustainable development goals by 2030 by ending, inter alia, maternal deaths, violence against women and harmful practices against women and girls.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear mr timmermans, i am so pleased that we are here today to talk about climate and to decide on this important law.
the environmental question, of course, has become economic but increasingly moral, what kind of world we're going to live in, what kind of condition we're going to leave this planet in for future generations, whether we're thinking short-term or long-term.
we are the first generation to feel the effects of climate change on our own skin, but we are also the last generation to have a chance to react.
citizens must be able to control and co-own energy production.
madam president, the corruption and misuse of european funds for the green transition, for helping citizens, for changing energy consumption, is at issue.
i am pleased that, as rapporteur of parliament, together with the council, under the slovenian presidency, i have the opportunity to co-create the european budget for 2020. the budget must turn political declarations into concrete measures, measures to further digitisation of europe, with the development and responsible use of artificial intelligence, strengthening the health union, supporting the western balkan countries and building a secure environment including the strengthening of the schengen area.
the next item is the debate on the report by nicolás gonzález casares, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a reinforced role for the european medicines agency in crisis preparedness and management for medicinal products and medical devices (com(2020)0725 – c9-0365/2020 – 2020/0321(cod)) (a9-0216/2021).
the covid-19 pandemic has shown the importance of collaborative research and innovation to find rapid solutions to the biggest challenges, such as vaccines, but also the importance of research science for the sustainable resilience of economies and societies.
the multiannual financial framework, the next generation eu instrument, with the necessary stronger linkage of the public research and innovation system with the private sector and the economy, can lay the foundations for a modern and sustainable europe and reduce the backlog for other parts of the world, such as the us.
this amount must not be lost, and the parliament really sees no good reason to waste this opportunity, which is clearly provided by the financial regulation.
but more than that, our relationship, our important, and not always simple, relationship, will also determine the imperative of principled cooperation on key global issues, which certainly includes tackling climate change.
on the green side, on the environment, another point on which this commission has worked a lot, again, enough ideological approaches.
it is an important issue, but it must be approached pragmatically: the transition that the union and the commission have built today is an ecological transition for the rich, it is not a correct ecological transition, it is not an ecological transition that must weigh on the less well-off citizens and it is inconceivable that vice-president timmermans, number two of a commission that you yourself in 2019 called policy, says that this is not the responsibility of the commission but it is the politicians who must decide how to redistribute the costs of this transition.
the complexity of technological, climate and demographic change requires a decisive european response, as demonstrated in the unprecedented health and economic crisis.
the key is therefore to ensure a transition to a sustainable food system, and this will only be possible with a fair implementation of the farm-to-table strategy.
however, our contribution to this transformation begins with the european union itself moving towards a sustainable food system.
we all know that in 2015, the international community agreed on two major ideas or fights – on the one hand, the paris agreement for climate change, on the other hand, the addis ababa action agenda (aaaa), on financing development to achieve economic, social and environmental priorities.
and we all know that both are very much linked, because if we do not succeed to really change our policies in relation to climate, we will be facing in the future much bigger issues in relation to food security and hunger.
we cannot, on the one hand, talk about climate change and on the other hand, forget about all the issues which finally are very much linked to producing more co2 emissions.
– on 23 september 2021, un secretary—general antónio guterres will convene a food systems summit as part of the decade of action to achieve the sustainable development goals (sdgs) by 2030 .
the summit will awaken the world to the fact that we must all work together to transform the way the world produces, consumes and thinks about food, interconnecting all 17 sdgs, focusing on those relating to eradicating poverty and hungry, mainstreaming the gender dimension and innovation, in a climate—neutral world .
the crisis has underlined the fact that getting food ‘from farm to fork’, as the eu has launched the strategy, cannot be taken for granted and has demonstrated the interconnectedness of actors and activities in eco—agriculture and throughout the sustainable food system .
more sustainable, fairer and inclusive food systems should contribute to a well—being economy that works for people and the planet, leaving no one behind .
as we want to rebuild in a more sustainable and resilient way we need to ensure that the recovery is fair and inclusive.
but we might have bigger scares, see bigger damage and even human losses if a state or non-state actor decides to attack our critical infrastructure, like hospitals, energy or transport, or to meddle in elections.
mr president, commissioner simson, ladies and gentlemen, europe is at a turning point - an energy turning point - because it can't go on like this.
i say europe, not the member states, because it is clear that energy and the wildness of energy prices is a european issue, not just a member state issue.
that is why we need european measures to prevent citizens from becoming energy poor and not having to turn on the heating, or to prevent the economy from becoming uncompetitive in the large global market due to the wildly rising energy prices.
and don't expect the economy and citizens to go out of their way to invest in alternative energy or to save electricity.
commissioner, please do it now so that clean, green and cheap energy is not just a dead letter on paper but a very concrete action.
so i think this is something that had a positive impact in our economies, of course together with the national reactions, and it is not by chance that we had, at least in the second quarter, a very strong rebound, even stronger than happened in the second quarter in china and in the us, and we also still have a good perspective for the third quarter, despite difficulties that are emerging, as you know, in supply chains and in energy prices.
completing banking union is fundamental for the long-term sustainability of the system.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this annual report is overall balanced when it talks about sustainable finance and taxonomy, banking crisis monitoring, gender balance and implementation of the anti-money laundering directive, as well as the effects on large-scale sales of non-performing loans.
the text thus supports the bank's self-assessment of climate change risks.
since when has climate change been part of the monetary mandate of a central bank, let alone the banking sector?
the covid-19 pandemic has reminded us that we need to better harness the potential and cooperation of border regions to enable growth and sustainable development and overcome the challenges these regions face.
we're constantly pushing the limits of the environment, while wondering why we're having more and more fires or droughts.
i think it's time to step out of this hypocrisy and accept that this farm-to-consumer strategy is not a fad, but an economic, climate and health necessity.
we need to return agriculture to its natural environment, to environmentally friendly farms, while also taking advantage of technology.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, achieving the environmental sustainability of the food system is vital for the future of our societies, but it is also vital to do so without taking the economic sustainability of our primary sector for granted, it is also vital to do so by achieving these environmental objectives without provoking a social revolution among european farmers and livestock farmers.
for starters, one could listen to and read the report which the commission itself has kept hidden in a drawer for six months, and which in fact confirms that the farm-to-table strategy will do enormous damage to the economic sustainability of the european primary sector.
this is now the moment when we turn our political talk, our political declarations into tangible support to recovery, and this is the moment when we turn our commitment to preparing europe for a post—pandemic global environment and digital era, and also really reinforce it by concrete funding.
from our point of view, this is the amount that must not be lost, and we really do not see any good reason why we would waste this opportunity.
dear chairman, dear colleagues, dear citizens, we all agree that the right to a clean environment is a prerequisite for a healthy life of citizens.
many citizens feel that the energy production and consumption story that we have and promote within the european union today is not very well-founded.
i consider this approach to allocating eur 20 billion of horizon funding to joint projects between business, industry, research and science to tackle these very big challenges in the fields of transport, health, energy, the circular economy and digital technologies to be quite successful.
partnership is a core principle of the programme and the new proposal for nine institutionalised partnerships further develops this principle and becomes a tool for achieving a wide range of opportunities in the european union's research environment.
if we want to improve our wind turbines or energy efficiency, we need precise measurements of their performance.
but that's why close collaboration between the public and private sectors must and will enable companies to be sustainable and competitive in the global marketplace in the post-covid era.
first, aid, national, for energy poor families.
what we need is a european approach to deal with the immediate impact of the current crisis by implementing common measures and by introducing reform of the european union's energy market, including a collective agreement on gas supply prices in a concrete future.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rising energy prices, the very high energy prices, are high on the political agenda.
the commission expects renewable energy to be of great benefit.
but the elephant in the room, nuclear energy, is not mentioned.
nuclear energy reduces co2, makes us less dependent on imports and provides greater security of supply.
i am therefore pleased that at least ten member states are already calling for nuclear energy to be promoted as a sustainable investment.
madam president, people’s ability to power and warm their homes is a fundamental right – a right threatened by soaring energy prices.
we have seen decisive action across europe to protect energy-poor households.
the commission has outlined that the best long-term solution is the just energy transition.
this transition must put communities and households at the centre of our energy policies.
right now, our energy system still panders to corporate polluters.
in ireland, our energy security is endangered by the government’s overindulgence of data centres.
europe’s energy policy must prioritise people’s right to clean, affordable energy above corporate profits and market ideologies.
there is nothing just about a transition that results in rising energy prices and the threat of power outages to families and workers.
first, i appreciate the long and competent statement of the commission president on energy, and we know what are the causes.
despite of the fact that the current crisis, almost crisis, is caused by mostly external factors, i guess we should pay more attention to the ongoing transformation from a fossil-based fuel energy economy to more clean and sustainable.
i would therefore like to express my full solidarity with my colleagues and kindly ask prime minister janša to spend less time on twitter and to put his presidency to work to respond to real and very urgent issues, such as the energy price emergency, which is eroding the purchasing power of european citizens every day and requires strong action, and the management of the pandemic, which in some countries is seeing dramatically rising numbers.
mr president, the ambitious paris climate accord has committed almost the entire world to reduce the increase of global temperatures in the next decades.
these catastrophes will only increase if we don’t stop global warming.
the eu has taken a leading role with its green deal and the fit for 55 programme, and even the new european power house, through which we try to create a healthier, safer, more aesthetic and sustainable environment for future generations.
we should work on energy diversification and independence.
i welcome the dedication of the g7 to accelerate their efforts, ensuring that the largest global economies are engaging in a race towards climate neutrality.
mr president, commissioner, we welcome the global agreements of the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and this glasgow cop; these goals are linked to the nextgenerationeu funds, with which we aim to transform our mobility, our economy and our consumption habits and make progress in sustainability and resilience, but, with the same energy, we remember that these goals and principles are transformed into facts at the local level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today it is the courts that are reminding governments of the commitments they have made to combat the climate crisis.
today it is the international energy agency - and therefore not a bunch of environmentalists, radical chic extremists - that tells us that we need to radically change, in a total way, the energy sector and that there is no more room for fossil sources.
the minister for ecological transition is doing everything to try to slow it down, calling it "a bloodbath", feeding a narrative of terror that scares citizens and businesses.
no more lies, because the transformation of our society into an ecological key, if led with courage, will bring enormous opportunities and jobs.
mr president, commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, on climate, the question is not to be pessimistic or optimistic, but realistic.
cop26 is the last chance to sweep our front door, to make europe the front-runner in the climate battle.
it must now put an end to fossil fuels, in particular, and also set an example of carbon neutrality.
mr president, the un climate summit in glasgow is just around the corner, and it is disappointing to hear that expectations for progress are low, even in the year when the effects of climate change are so apparent.
we all took hope from the accomplishment in paris but, tragically, annual global greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise.
we’ve discussed at length the deepening energy crisis, and with hostility between the us and china, the two top greenhouse gas emitters, the eu must ensure it takes the lead in glasgow.
mr. chairman, it is clear that the glasgow conference is one of the last, if not the last, chance, the last chance to prevent a complete climate collapse, a climate catastrophe.
i think we're all finally coming to terms with this, and i don't want to keep repeating the same thing over and over again, because as the most famous climate activist would say, "enough of the blah blah blah politics and the empty talk of all these politicians".
transport is, of course, the biggest climate problem for europe, which emits about 30% of co2, of which 30% to 72% is road transport, and the target was to achieve 10% renewable energy by 2020. right in that traffic.
– madam president, honourable members, i am delighted to join you here today to discuss how we can ensure that all patients have access to affordable, high—quality, safe, sustainable and effective medicines, regardless of where they live in the eu.
we are making good progress in implementing the eu strategy on pharmaceuticals in the environment.
we can reduce shortages of medicines and improve access and affordability; we can support innovation and sustainability in our pharmaceutical sector; and we can deliver concrete, lasting benefits to patients.
i am also very concerned about the fact that we finally have stricter obligations in terms of environmental protection and a call for the use of alternatives to animal testing.
today, other priorities such as the climate resilience of agricultural production, sustainability and rural development are in focus, as is evident, among other things, by the allocation of 25% of direct payments to eco-schemes.
reinforcement in the life programme will help to achieve a sustainable and energy-efficient economy, and additional funds for erasmus+ will provide thousands of new opportunities for young people.
and of course we all want a clean environment and we all want a green transition, but please tell me how can one, for example bangladesh, allocate for this the same as one norway or how one croatia can allocate the same as one belgium.
and we are all, of course, for the environment.
i was personally present on 25 february this year in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) in brussels when the ceos of seven big pharmaceutical companies claimed that they have 95% effectiveness, and some even more.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth wave of the pandemic, the impact of climate change and the spiraling energy prices.
and even before that, before this energy price frenzy, about 30 million europeans lived in energy poverty.
in the context of this partnership, ukraine is our important economic, security and energy partner.
but reforms have also devalued serbian environmental regulations.
one of the companies criticized in these demonstrations is rio tinto and its jadar project, one of the largest lithium extraction projects that will mainly supply the european market and that will devastate the local environment.
labour and environmental rights must be defended irrespective of the nationality of the company that violates them.
because we don't have a planet b. it is urgent to change the system so as not to change the climate.
honourable chairman, commissioner, colleagues, in the last few weeks we have witnessed large environmental protests in serbia where tens of thousands of citizens are participating in road blockades and demanding the abolition of the expropriation act, amendments to the referendum act to prevent the exploitation of lithium in that country.
because it follows a neo-colonial concept where profit and what's good goes to the center and pollution goes to the periphery.
what is forbidden in europe, when it comes to the environment, cannot be allowed in serbia and bosnia or albania, which also has lithium deposits, and which merkel visited immediately after her visit to belgrade.