challenges like climate change, disinformation or the pandemic kept rising and our capacities to respond kept shrinking.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on the environmental, social, economic and, i would even say, geopolitical front, portugal's priorities for its presidency of the council are in line with the general dynamic set by the von der leyen commission, which has placed a green deal for europe at the heart of its programme.
this project, if ratified, would be a disaster for the climate and biodiversity as it would increase deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions.
mr prime minister, if you take seriously the principle that none of our policies can worsen the environmental and social situation of the planet, the famous 'do no harm principle', you must relegate the treaty with mercosur, at any rate as it is being negotiated today, to the dustbin of history.
for example, italy gets 9 billion for health care, 17 billion for gender equality, and the very largest part, 75 billion, goes to climate change.
using 75 billion euros from the corona fund for climate change in italy is it solidarity with the swedish taxpayers?
we will do so by making the most of the new cycle of solidarity cooperation within the union, by implementing the common vaccination strategy, by making progress in the progressive establishment of a health union, by deepening the social dimension of the energy tradition and the digital realization and, at the porto social summit, by giving space to implement new concrete measures to tackle inequalities, new precariousness and dignity.
mr prime minister, the connection of the ellalink submarine cable from south america to sines is, moreover, a sign of the clear realization that no strategy to combat climate change or to achieve inclusive digitisation will succeed if it is only european.
the mercosur agreement would be a real betrayal of our farmers, it would be dangerous for our fellow citizens, and it would be disastrous for the environment.
the adoption of the national recovery plans must now be the focus of our attention: we need not just any national recovery plans, but recovery plans that can turn this dramatic crisis into an opportunity to radically change the development model, to make it more personally tailored, environmentally and socially sustainable, with a particular eye on those who have lost their jobs and on the new generations, who risk bearing the burden of the next debt if we are not able to invest today in projects for the growth of tomorrow.
last year, the eu showed courage, vision and solidarity in its pandemic response and climate policy, as well as in the rule of law crisis.
the main means of combating climate change is to shift to an environmentally conscious and sustainable economy.
but that's not going to be feasible if we just focus on renewable energy.
supporting the circular economy is therefore essential, as we can only meet our emissions targets if we also launch this model at eu level and operate it at industrial level.
what is certain is that the transition to a circular economy will create new economic and employment opportunities and can bring significant environmental and social benefits through more efficient use of resources.
i believe that even greater efforts will be needed to implement waste legislation.
the good news is that despite the pandemic, industrial players, like in my country, hungary, are already working on innovative solutions, so we can reduce emissions with this.
mr. president, i have to ask you... climate change is a shared concern.
it's been almost a year and a half since we declared a climate emergency here in the european parliament.
we have adopted the climate act, setting out the goal that by 2050 europe will be the first carbon-neutral continent.
but what good is all this if the industries that produce carbon dioxide are shifted outside europe?
– madam president, it’s a pleasure to address this house on the recovery and resilience facility (rrf), which, as this house knows, is a powerful and ambitious tool for bringing about sustainable and inclusive recovery in europe.
the commission, therefore, attached great importance to stakeholder involvement, as we already made clear in the annual sustainable growth strategy back in september.
today i would like to pay tribute to the victims of soviet deportation: the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the european union's policy on the environment.
this is a very timely debate, taking into consideration the current geostrategic challenges at multilateral level from human rights, as we have seen, to the climate, from health to trade, as well as relations with beijing and moscow.
also, last week, we adopted the recommendation on the use of waste water monitoring to track covid-19 and its variants.
waste water monitoring has proven to be an effective, reliable and relatively cheap way to identify the presence of the virus, allowing for its earlier detection.
after a year of pandemic it has become clear that if we want to overcome this crisis, we must devote all our energy to the vaccination campaign and the implementation of the recovery plan.
air pollution poses challenges to member states on many fronts.
i believe that we need to regulate emissions reductions and encourage the associated technological change in ways that minimise the disadvantage to the population.
at the same time, as the achievement of the reduction targets involves financial resources, this creates a good opportunity for member states to implement green economy, climate-friendly technologies and developments.
the important thing is that people should always be at the centre of climate action.
these agencies work in areas that affect the daily lives of european citizens, whether it be health, the environment or even security policy.
it should enable us to step up our efforts to combat food waste and fraud.
that is why we call for universal, free and unrestricted access to vaccines; the liberalization of patents and the promotion of local production; a covid tax on wealth to finance the fight against the pandemic and inequality; the cancellation of foreign debt to invest in the reconstruction of latin american health systems; and the paralysis of agreements such as mercosur, which promotes the loss of biodiversity, which is the cause of 70% of the world's epidemic outbreaks.
i believe that the €7.6 billion framework budget can effectively promote green renewable energy and accelerate the digital transformation.
the last year of the pandemic has shown us all how vulnerable we are, how important it is to take care not only of our health but also of our environment.
it is the only eu fund dedicated entirely to environmental and climate objectives.
the programme will help enormously to achieve the union's environmental objectives and promote the green transition, as one of the objectives of the life programme is to switch to clean energy.
that is why, as i said, i continue to encourage eu decision-makers to be bold and innovative and to create programmes like life that can reach citizens directly, because that is the way they will feel the most about the importance of environmental protection, climate policy and the importance of themselves as citizens in the daily life of the european union.
the life programme has played an important role in european environmental policy for decades, and increasingly in sustainability policy.
i would like to emphasise that environmental improvements do require central coordination in the member states, as these programmes cross several regions.
without coordination between member states, eu environmental developments cannot succeed!
environmental and sustainability policy is about whether or not citizens accept it.
i think that there is a need to raise awareness of this programme at eu level, as these projects can be a very valuable help and a real added value in the field of environmental protection.
the short-term costs of climate change are not borne by the rich, but by those who can least afford it.
but not only overconsumption, environmental protection is the privilege of the elite these days: organic food, electric cars, rooftop solar panels.
we cannot expect the masses to be environmentally conscious and to bear the consequences of climate change while the elites are unwilling to do anything for the common goal of saving our future.
the next item is the report by mrs maría soraya rodríguez ramos, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the impact of climate change on human rights and the role of environmentalists in this context (2020/2134 (ini)) (a9-0039/2021).
mr president, if we do not make a real commitment to reducing carbon dioxide, we are condemning and exposing future generations to the complete limitation of their freedom, to the limitation of their rights: this is a recent statement by the german constitutional court, which therefore for the first time recognizes intergenerational responsibility, the responsibility we have with our actions for the rights and freedoms of future generations.
the paris agreement, drafted in 2015, is the first international treaty to explicitly recognize the link between climate action and human rights.
recently, the high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, said in relation to climate warming and the deterioration of our ecosystems that the world has never seen a threat to human rights of this magnitude.
that is why no international institution, no state can remain on the sidelines, nor this european parliament, and human rights, the fundamental rights to life, to water, to breathe clean air, are rights that are violated not only in other parts of the world but also here, in our cities: we cannot ignore the thousands of lives that pollution takes every year in our cities; we cannot ignore that heat waves are also taking many lives in our cities, in our countries, that the great floods and the great fires that occur every year also cause the destruction of many lives and the displacement of many people; we cannot forget that from 2030 to 2050 environmental degradation in other countries will cause an additional 250 000 deaths per year, if we do not act, due to the increase in malnutrition, the increase in dehydration, the increase in malaria, the increase in fever, the increase in diary stress.
so we have to act, because we have scientific evidence: global warming is the result of our human actions; therefore, we can stop it.
in this respect, we believe that the european union can do much in its external action as well, and that is why we call for the recognition of the human right to a healthy environment at international level and, consequently, its inclusion as such in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union; we call for the development of a legal framework on climate justice within the united nations framework convention; we call for ambitious leadership at important summits such as cop26 and cop15 climate change and biodiversity protection are two sides of the same coin of our environmental deterioration; we call for a legislative proposal on mandatory due diligence in the european union and an active european union in the ongoing negotiations on a binding un treaty on companies and human rights; we also call on the european commission to assess annually the external dimension of the european green deal and we call for the establishment of a contact point on climate justice within the united nations framework convention; we call for ambitious leadership at important summits such as cop26 and cop15 climate change and biodiversity protection are two sides of the same coin of our environmental deterioration; we call for a legislative proposal on mandatory due diligence in the european union and an active european union in the ongoing negotiations on a binding un treaty on companies and human rights; we also call on the european commission to assess annually the external dimension of the european green deal and, and, consequently, to establish a contact point within the un framework convention, to establish a climate justice within the un framework convention; we call for an ambitious leadership at the un framework convention on climate change within the un framework convention; we call for an ambitious leadership at the un framework convention on climate change and we call for an ambitious leadership at the un framework convention on climate change but since we are talking about human rights and climate change, we must talk in this report, if not, about those people who are unfortunately risking their lives to defend them.
i recall the words of berta cáceres, words she said when she received the goldman prize for her climate work in 2015; just a year later she was shot dead at the door of her house.
today we are still waiting for justice and reparation for that crime, because impunity in crimes against environmental defenders accumulates.
we want to redouble our political and financial efforts to establish mechanisms for the prevention and protection of human rights defenders; we want a list of priority defenders and we want the high representative to report annually to this house on the situation of the rights of environmental defenders in the third countries with which we work.
in short, we want more ambition, we want more commitment, we want to take a major step in the connection between human rights and environmental degradation: we can, i repeat, be a generation that does extraordinary things; we can and must do it, in our name, in defense of our rights and those of future generations.
environment, climate change and human rights are closely interrelated.
the effects of environmental and climate degradation have a direct impact on the exercise of human rights, right to life, right to health, right to safe drinking water and sanitation, right to food.
this year we have the opportunity to firmly enshrine human rights principles in global action to reverse biodiversity loss.
the eu biodiversity strategy underlines the importance of a human rights-based approach to ensure social justice, fairness and inclusiveness.
the strategy indicates that the post-2020 global biodiversity framework under discussion should respect the rights and the full and effective participation of indigenous people and local communities.
environmental human rights defenders are on the front line to protect their rights and the rights of their communities affected by environmental degradation and climate change.
the eu provides protection to environmental human rights defenders and indigenous peoples who are facing unprecedented levels of threats and attacks.
69% of them were working on land, indigenous and environmental rights.
since its launch in 2015, protectdefenders.eu has supported almost 12 000 land and environmental rights and indigenous rights defenders, 6 370 of them women, representing the main group supported by the eu-funded mechanism.
through the mechanism, environmental human rights defenders and their family members can be urgently reallocated when necessary and have their legal costs for justice and protection covered.
today’s debate is of crucial importance, and you can count on the european external action service, with its network of delegations and with the commission, to actively pursue a fairer and safer environment where the human rights of all are promoted, protected and fulfilled.
like them, hundreds of environmental activists are being attacked around the world.
the fight against climate change starts with supporting and protecting these people, and this goes through concrete measures not just good words, such as demanding the cancellation of all projects that have not complied with the prior consultation, such as the agua zarca project in honduras, for which berta cáceres was murdered.
but it also fails to negotiate and ratify trade agreements like mercosur, which will increase deforestation and biodiversity loss.
as much as many members of this house may not want to know, we don't have a planet b. we must defend the environment and protect those who defend it.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, there is no doubt that the effects of climate change and the continuing degradation of the environment are having a negative impact on human rights: the right to life, to food, to health, to work, to clean water, to sanitation... they are a threat to all of us, an immediate threat that affects all of us, but they also affect the poorest countries on the planet much more, because they attack them the hardest.
the paris agreement is the first international treaty to recognise the link between climate action and human rights.
we therefore have an obligation to be proactive and take effective action to mitigate the effects of this climate change and to improve the lives of the most vulnerable people, populations and countries.
on the one hand, to be exemplary, but also, on the other, to create a global right that leads to the right to a healthy environment being real.
we have approved the green deal, we have approved the inclusion of human rights in all our actions, we have pushed for the signing of many agreements to protect the environment, but now we need more involvement, more collaboration, to lead in a combative way this defence of the environment.
there is no environmental justice without social justice.
– mr president, environmental degradation goes hand in hand with authoritarianism and corruption.
when thousands of environmental defenders are dead every year, hiding behind empty slogans is not a solution any more.
in order to protect the environment and protect the people at the front lines and to get rid of the underlying corruption, we need to use the magnitsky sanctions.
i also believe it is important that new technologies contribute to climate goals and the digital transformation.
in the wake of the pandemic, we have observed that the interdependence between humanity and biodiversity is so deep that the vulnerability of the latter is also our vulnerability.
we must of course support all efforts and work to halt the decline of biodiversity at all levels.
instead of unrealistic and elusive goals, we need to fundamentally rethink our relationship with the living world, with natural ecosystems and biodiversity.
while the coronavirus crisis has put all the important issues in the background these days, climate change is as pressing as ever.
i welcome the fact that the council has put climate protection back on the agenda.
i believe that the green transition is important, but we must also ensure that the population is the least affected and that the costs of climate neutrality, which is to be achieved gradually by 2005, are borne by the polluting companies.
i'm against the idea that the energy use of buildings is included in the emissions trading system.
people must remain at the centre of climate action.
the fight against climate change is crucial for the future of europe and the world.
europe's potential to become the world's first climate-neutral continent is a major success, but it is also a challenge and an opportunity.
the eu must take the lead by taking real action to combat climate change, to protect our natural world, and to ensure that the transition is fair to all members of society.
protecting the environment, preserving jobs and businesses is all important in these challenging circumstances.
the point is that eu climate policy cannot succeed if the eu imposes a disproportionate burden on our businesses.
we've told you many times that climate change knows no borders.
that is why climate change is not a national responsibility, but a collective one.
it's a great thing that the climate bill was born, because it's not just about making loud political promises, it's about taking real action.
the law requires the european union to become climate neutral by 2050 at the latest.
mr president europe is facing unprecedented environmental and climate challenges that threaten our future.
while only one hour is allocated to environmental debates this plenary week, a number of issues of national competence have been put on the ep's agenda.
mr president, instead of these debates, the hungarian people want action from the union to guarantee a cleaner environment and cleaner air.
according to the latest survey by the european commission, nine out of ten people consider climate change to be the most serious problem.
– mr president, honourable members, the european union is committed to supporting animal welfare, to improving public health and protecting the environment.
any new initiatives that the commission is taking, such as the chemical strategy for sustainability, must fully respect the directive’s ultimate goal of phasing out all animals used in science.
we are already implementing cooperation programmes in economic reforms, renewable energy, environment, climate change and sustainable agriculture.
energy prices have reached historic highs in recent times, with the result that the population of the union is facing extraordinary increases in energy prices.
tax reductions have been implemented in several countries, and in one member state the increase in consumer energy prices could not be implemented at all.
your honour, the faulty policies of the european union have created a shortage of supply in the energy market.
in addition, the european commission's locally over-ambitious climate package has added to the gravity of the situation.
ensure that people and businesses have access to affordable energy at eu level.
without it, the eu's energy policy is doomed to complete failure.
first of all, i guess we should not forget that the energy market is a market.
let me assure you that the commission fully agrees with your assessment that we must take the rising energy prices and energy poverty seriously and we must act.
most of you have called for priority attention to be given to energy-poor and low-income households, and i do agree.
but there were already millions of europeans living in energy poverty before the price hike, and more, including middle income households, will be impacted if this situation continues.
they can offer direct income support and make sure that no one is disconnected from the grid and extra fiscal revenues from energy taxation, or eu ets revenues can be used to address the social impact.
we assess that member states received in the first nine months of 2021 an additional 10.8 billion in ets revenues compared to the same period in 2020. for the medium term, we have proposed a climate social fund for a more structured response to address the social and the distribution impact on the most vulnerable of the energy transition.
we will present by the end of the year a recommendation to provide policy guidance that is needed to ensure that member states adequately address the social and employment consequences of the clean energy transition.
there are no taboos, but we should not forget that the eu energy system is the most reliable in the world, and the design of our electricity market there is not the cause of the surge in electricity prices.
what we see now is prices going up and energy supply being a challenge all over the world.
as i said, it could be useful to launch a study on price formation and investment incentives in the electricity market and overall a well-integrated, well-functioning eu electricity market with more competition, more renewables and more energy efficiency, is our best tool to deliver affordable energy to european consumers.
i know that some of you are concerned about possible manipulation of the eu energy market and these are serious concerns.
whether it is about prices, security of supply or climate, scaling up local affordable renewable energy is the way forward and i would prefer to be in a position where we are not dependent on foreign fossil fuels.
i will present it and discuss it with the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) the following day, so continuing the dialogue we have had just today.
it’s high time we discuss the surge in energy prices.
since the end of 2020, the demand for energy has been boosted by higher demand for residential heating and cooling.
a combination of the continued industrial output rebound and rallying eu carbon prices is fostering a switch from coal to gas.
with respect to electricity prices, they have been boosted by such factors as high electricity demand (due to the covid recovery), lower renewable production (partly due to the less favourable weather conditions), surging coal prices, rallying eu carbon prices, and overall low gas storage.
energy poverty was a major concern before the pandemic, and it will become even more so as the pandemic continues and europe is struggling to cope with the economic and social consequences of the pandemic.
the european commission has so far proposed that member states manage energy prices on their own, through taxation and subsidies for the poorest.
we must do everything we can to ensure that our people do not fall further into energy poverty.
this is a temporary situation, but it highlights that europe is a continent that is energy-poor in terms of fossil fuels and that we are highly dependent on energy.
the union was created to deal with the problems of scarce resources such as energy.
we need to encourage the acceleration of the transition to renewable energy sources.
improve energy storage capacity and the energy efficiency of the buildings.
the best way to counter russia's energy diplomacy blackmail is through joint procurement.
at the same time, we must address the growing problem of energy poverty immediately: neither the eu nor governments can allow europe's poor to have to choose this winter between keeping their families warm or putting food on the table.
for a family of four, this can add up to $2,000 to their energy bill.
this is why there is an urgent need for a temporary reduction in taxes on energy suppliers throughout europe.
the social climate fund should also be increased in terms of the amount of resources it can allocate.
and of course, the fact that energy prices are going through the roof today is not helping either.
– mr president, climate change, extreme poverty, growing inequalities, the rise of illiberal and authoritarian regimes: these are challenges we are all facing in the 21st century.
here we are in the 21st century, facing the greatest ecological crisis in the history of mankind, and europe is busy with petty power plays orchestrated by self—serving politicians.
it is precisely this lack of commitment on the part of the eu in foreign policy that has allowed foreign powers to steal our privileged partnership with the mediterranean countries, to get their hands on energy resources, trade and migration routes, to blackmail us.
democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are fundamental in order to achieve sustainable and truly inclusive economic growth and prosperity in tunisia.
mr. president, i have to ask you... two years ago, commissioner timmermans was given the mandate to achieve the eu's climate goals in a fair and balanced way.
in preparation for the climate summit in glasgow, we can see that europe is facing a crisis of recession and energy, and the eu's responsibility is clear.
in many member states, european citizens have become completely dependent on energy suppliers, as have businesses.
and now the european commission wants to tax car and homeowners, using the climate protection as a cover for rising real estate prices.
i ask the commission to stop putting climate policy at the expense of citizens and to fulfil its obligation to ensure that our businesses remain competitive during the green transition.
in the shadow of the climate summit, we must not leave anyone behind as we move towards the eu's green ambitions.
mr president, at the convergence of a health, economic and climate crisis, we are presented with a unique opportunity to set our societies on a sustainable course.
the ambitious goals set out in the european green deal can be an instrument for transition to a new green growth model that mobilises green investment to create new industries, jobs to dampen the social tensions created by transition, and a cleaner environment for all.
net-zero emissions by 2050 and transformation of our economies are a collective target, rather than one that commits each and every member state to net-zero emissions.
finally, the adoption of the paris agreement rulebook to set the fight against climate change into operation.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms dolors montserrat, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european strategy on medicines (2021/2013 ((ini)) a9-0317/2021
in writing.
the world's nations set out on a high-minded journey to the cop26 climate conference, which ended with a fragile agreement.
perhaps the most important result is that there is finally a consensus that we need to not just talk about climate change, but act on it!
we can see that only by acting together can we accelerate the climate change process.
but it should not be forgotten that, despite the fact that the eu is responsible for 9% of the world's total emissions, it is the commission that is now proposing the most drastic measure to the member states of the union: taxing car and home owners under the guise of climate protection, by raising the price of food.
we cannot allow our citizens to be left totally vulnerable to high prices on the altar of climate action, while our global partners do far less to protect our environment.
merging 197 perspectives on climate change is a daunting task, but not impossible.
environmental protection is our common policy.
they are part of the environment and we are responsible for them together.
we now have a responsibility to teach our children that such magnificent animals must be treated with respect and empathy in a natural environment, and not forced into an unnatural existence that involves considerable physical and mental suffering.