our fishermen and women, who go to sea every day to supply us with healthy food from the ocean, are the first to benefit from more fish in the waters, but abundant life in the ocean also plays a crucial role in our fight against climate change.
they support the commission’s approach under the european green deal, the biodiversity strategy for 2030 and the common fisheries policy.
in the past decade, we have achieved significant progress to increase fish stocks in the north—east atlantic, where the rate of fishing is on average already close to the maximum sustainable yield.
in order to further move towards more sustainable fishing in all sea basins, i agree with the report that we need to improve our fisheries management to end overfishing.
we need to expand our network of marine protected areas, improve their management and tackle other environmental factors beyond fishing that threaten our fish stocks.
the commission will present, later this year, a report on the implementation of this regulation and, as announced in the biodiversity strategy, an action plan to conserve fishery resources and protect marine ecosystems, which we announced in the biodiversity strategy and for which the roadmap will be published very shortly.
i agree with the report that we need more sea areas covered by marine protected areas with a more efficient management and control system in order to deliver in the interest of our fishermen and women and to protect marine biodiversity.
i hope that the final report, as it will be voted on thursday, will keep this high level of ambition in terms of sustainable fishing and healthy fish stocks.
at this stage, the priority is reaching maximum sustainable yield for all stocks, which is also the agreed legal objective of our current common fisheries policy.
i believe we have reached a balanced report which contributes to improving the sustainability of the exploitation of the seas.
it will be an important development, which could contribute to the more sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, with environmental gains, but also social and economic gains for the sector.
marine protected areas are not incompatible with the existence of certain more selective fishing activities with less negative impacts on the environment or on existing resources.
we must once and for all combat and demystify this idea, both among the members of this parliament and among the fishing communities, because only in this way will we be able to implement the changes that are so relevant and necessary for the protection, recovery and resilience of the habitats and biodiversity of the european sea.
i conclude, mr president, by stating that i support the implementation of ambitious targets for the percentage of marine areas to be protected, as advocated in the biodiversity strategy to 2030.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.
it’s if we keep on taking fish out of our seas at the current rates, without giving them a chance to rest and reproduce, our sea beds will become barren waste grounds sapped of marine life, and a wonderful source of food and employment.
protecting 30% of our waters should be legally binding by 2030 as recommended in the biodiversity strategy.
it is possible to do this whilst supporting sustainable fishing communities.
to take this bi-regional cooperation further, it will be crucial that the commitments made in december are reflected in the allocation of these resources and interests, in the face of common problems such as climate change, the digital transition and social inequalities.
working together, we can better meet the challenges, whether it is climate change or the development of new technologies.
secondly, the protection of the environment and natural resources.
the region is home to half the world's biodiversity, but it is also the site of the largest number of conflicts related to environmental protection, often violent conflicts in which indigenous peoples are the main victims.
they want to match our european green deal and address the climate emergency.
let’s build this new transatlantic partnership, link climate action to racial justice, tackle poverty in baltimore, in brussels and in dublin.
so, from now on, let’s work together to ensure that the transatlantic alliance is strong, is emboldened and is confident in what we’re trying to achieve with regard to the environment, the economy and for the citizens of europe, the states and the world in general.
there is a poverty trap looming because of this housing crisis for a lot of people who can no longer afford to find decent housing, and i would say housing close to their job, which, incidentally, creates other issues of transportation and co2 emissions.
in particular, the renovation of social and affordable housing districts has the potential to reduce energy poverty, create local jobs and bring long—lasting benefits for communities.
energy poverty is a strong focus of the renovation wave.
in addition, it will continue to support the eu energy poverty observatory, which collects data, develops indicators and disseminates best practices for tackling energy poverty.
yes, when it comes to energy-efficient building renovation, the greatest potential is when it comes to the co2 savings question.
we must make the renovation wave a reality by retrofitting existing homes and bringing public housing up to an a energy rating.
we also cannot underestimate the threat that the recent law on preventing financing of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction presents to turkish civil society, which already operates in a hostile environment.
in recent months, it has been instrumental in designing an appropriate policy response to the crisis and laying the foundations for a solid sustainable recovery.
that swing reflects, to a considerable extent, the increase in energy inflation due to upward base effects and the recent oil increases.
in particular, it reflects the reversal of the temporary vat rates in germany, and the change in the hicp weight that always takes place at the start of the year, and which now reflects the consumption structure of 2020, which, under the impact of the covid pandemic has changed, compared to that of 2019. headline inflation is expected to gradually increase further in the coming months, and this will largely be due to base effects in energy inflation, as the drops in oil prices in early 2020 will fade away from the annual growth rates.
now, as i said, as much as possible those fiscal measures should be targeted and should be temporary in nature and be mindful of medium-term fiscal sustainability.
for this, it is critical that member states channel european funds into much needed reforms and investment, including in the areas of climate change and digitalisation.
i would like to finish with some key points on climate change, which some of you have mentioned.
the primary responsibility to address climate change lies with governments, who have the most important tools at hand.
those are my three is that i significantly expanded upon in a previous speech – i will not bother you with that – but what i mean by that is that we need to include the true social and environmental cost of carbon into the prices paid by all sectors of the economy.
we also need to get greater information on the exposure of individual companies in order to make sure that climate risks are adequately priced.
both, however, require a complex ecosystem of which finance is a key element.
the eu must make progress to consolidate its leading role in sustainable finance.
the fact that central banks are not responsible directly for climate policy does not mean that we can ignore climate change or that we do not play any role in combating it.
climate change is, in my view, very relevant to the ecb mission.
the material effect of climate change as well as the acceleration of the transition have macroeconomic and financial implications.
the ecb is thus reflecting on the emerging risks related to climate change in the pursuit of its treaty tasks.
we are, in particular, considering how environmental sustainability considerations can be relevant in pursuing ecb policies not applied only to the non-monetary policy portfolios, but way beyond that.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 february 2021. written statements (rule 171)
the european central bank (ecb) was called upon in 2020 to play its role of stabilising prices, driving forward european policies in response to the pandemic crisis and supporting the financing of responses even more demandingly, in line with the priorities of protecting jobs and sustainable development.
in 2020 the ecb contributed to maintaining a favourable investment environment.
it is important that it pursues monetary policies that stimulate growth and employment, including an alignment of its priorities with the european union's sustainability priorities.
the debate will continue on the report by mr huitema, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the new action plan for the circular economy (2020/2077 (ini)) (a9-0008/2021).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
we use those products maybe once or twice, and then they become waste.
it's much better to make sure that the waste that we otherwise incinerate or dump, for example, is used as a valuable raw material to make our products.
or to put it more bluntly: i'm absolutely convinced that if we scale up our circular economy, we can meet the goals of the green deal and be climate neutral by 2050. circular economy is not just good for the environment.
we think it is very important that the environmental directive be extended, that you set a minimum for the amount of recycled material you use in your products and that this applies not only to european companies but to all companies selling their products on the european market.
this could be done, for example, through carbon reward schemes or other market instruments.
when it becomes waste, it's very difficult to separate and reuse these different materials.
it is also important that we check whether all waste streams are waste.
there's no such thing as waste in my eyes.
it is also the task of the european commission to come up with criteria as soon as possible to determine when waste is no longer waste and thus receives final waste status.
– mr president, i would like to congratulate mr huitema, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for this comprehensive report on the new circular economy action plan for a cleaner and more competitive europe.
the circular economy is a cornerstone of our transition to a sustainable economy and society.
we need a circular economy to achieve climate neutrality.
recent studies show that half of greenhouse gas emissions and more than 90% of biodiversity loss and water stress at global level come from resource extraction and processing.
today, recycling accounts only for 12% of eu raw material imports and, if we don’t act now, waste generation will rise by 70% by 2050. the action plan underlines the need to reduce our consumption footprint to bring it back within the planetary boundaries and to switch to an economic model that gives back to the planet more than it takes.
it covers, for the first time, the full lifecycle of a product and proposes a new toolbox for sustainability.
this year, we will be rolling out the sustainable product policy framework, including the sustainable product policy legislative initiative, which will be presented at the end of the year.
it will set requirements for products and lay out sustainability principles so that, among other things, products on the eu market last longer, are easier to repair and recycle and include recycled content.
this sustainable product policy framework aims at reducing waste generation and creating lead markets for sustainable materials and products.
it will reward businesses aiming to be frontrunners or who are already leading with climate neutral technologies.
as fossil energy represents a fifth of all the material we use, it should also be noted that energy efficiency is vital to contribute to the goals to reduce both the material and carbon footprint of products.
next to ensuring that products produced or sold on the eu market become circular and sustainable, we also plan to empower consumers to that end.
we will work to prevent waste and to ensure that it is well managed.
our citizens are worried about harmful landfills, litter and microplastics, and about dumping waste in countries that cannot deal with it.
the commission will take action to ensure that the eu does not export its waste challenges to third countries.
the review of the waste shipment regulation will have a key role to play in improving the internal circulation of waste and restricting exports of waste that have harmful environmental and health impacts in third countries or can be treated domestically within the eu.
we are working together with the united nations environment programme and the united nations industrial development organization to set up an alliance on the circular economy and resource efficiency.
to do this, we have to bring economic and environmental policies together and mobilise unprecedented investments.
this instrument responds to the economic slowdown and addresses the environmental crisis, while increasing the resilience of our businesses, our citizens, our value chains and our global partners.
the circular economy and the european green deal agenda will remain central in shaping the economic reconstruction and the future of a climate neutral and competitive europe.
i am convinced that the circular economy should be a fundamental element of european and national industrial policies, while the national recovery and resilience plans of the member states must be based on growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive.
we also need to adopt europe’s eco label and eco-management and audit scheme to tackle waste.
there are positive statements on textiles and fast fashion, on the right to repair, on the need for legislative measures to halve food waste by 2030, and legislative measures to tackle planned obsolescence.
we must build back better by investing in the green economy, care infrastructure, digital literacy, sustainable finance for smes and invest in our cities, such as dublin, to make them more liveable.
so this particular facility is very welcome and i hope it’s ratified by member states and that it will have a meaningful impact in the key areas, the environment, climate and digitisation of our economies.
but as we grieve, we look to a recovery with decent jobs, clean air and climate action at its heart.
we want cosy homes, lower energy bills, a sense of hygge.
the nord stream 2 project directly contradicts the eu's strategic objective of reducing dependence on individual energy-supplying countries.
it is bad in every way, including from the point of view of energy policy.
and additionally, the safer oil tanker stranded in the red sea is a ticking time bomb that could cause an environmental disaster.
the resolution today calls on the eu to do three things: to contribute to a sustainable political process, to ensure adequate funding on the humanitarian side, and also to join the war against impunity because starvation is not the only war crime that is being committed in yemen.
it was no longer enough to be concerned, even in a limited democratic environment, with the human rights of the rohingya minority, which were never fully guaranteed by either the military or the democratic government of mrs aung san suu kyi.
environmental protection must be an instrument to preserve and use ukraine's great natural wealth in a prudent and sustainable way.
however, the overall pace of progress towards a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict remains too slow.
so any regulations that are changed in the terms of the mifid ‘quick fix’ and the prospectus regulation are welcome in this emergency climate.
we need all of society working towards this to end and eradicate gender-based violence once and for all, to combat the whole issue of women living in poverty, particularly single mothers and older women, to tackle the climate challenge with understanding of the real lived circumstances of women, and to have enough women at the decision-making table where there are clearly not enough there in critical numbers at present.
the energy produced in ostrovetsk will be expensive, twice as expensive as the energy produced in the belarusian gas installations.
finally, the synchronisation of the baltic electricity grid with the continental european network is a strategic priority, and a very important step towards our energy union.
the russian state-owned company rosatom, which financed the astaravo nuclear power plant, is seeking to create the conditions for keeping the baltic states in the energy dependence system known as brell.
the electricity generated by the astrava nuclear power plant is intended to flood the baltic markets, to compete with renewable energy sources and to delay the synchronisation of the baltic states with the continental european electricity grids.
you can vote until 11:00. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we now continue the debate on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, chaired by mr cristian-silviu bușo, on the question for oral answer to the commission on the safety of the astravets nuclear power plant in belarus (o-000004/2021 - b9-0003/21) (2021/2511 (((rsp)).
the reactor in question does not meet the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency.
we’ve heard some arguments that belarus – shock, horror – might generate a surplus energy from this, and that they might stay linked to the russian grid and not have to buy european liquefied natural gas.
the uk trade agreement facilitates continued energy flow over connectors without really having sufficient commitments in this regard.
clean, renewable and safe energy sources are available, so it’s time to say a resounding ‘no’ to nuclear.
but what we are asking the european union today is not to go one by one, but to have all these masks approved by european standards, so that these transparent masks are made of sustainable material and also meet safety standards.
all companies operating in the eu with more than 250 employees or listed on the stock exchange will be obliged to ensure respect for human rights, environmental protection and decent working conditions along their supply chains.
this can and must become another important building block for fair, sustainable international trade, according to the conflict minerals guidelines.
the commission is called upon to present a bold law to prevent the importation into the european market of products produced using child labour, forced labour, modern forms of slavery or methods which are harmful to health or the environment.
mr president, only one in three companies in europe can estimate the impact of their activities on human rights and the environment.
the majority of european companies have no idea whether, for example, child labour or the systematic dumping of waste in rivers is part of their value chain.
however, it is necessary to encourage companies to contribute to a sustainable chain.
only then will we have a well-developed legislation that provides sufficient incentives to make a value chain sustainable.
the rapporteur states that the business community is not aware of its own impact on the environment, but does it understand the impact it has on business?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years consumers and investors have paid increasing attention to the sustainability of production models and to the social responsibility of enterprises.
it is significant that today, on international women's day, we are discussing clear european legislation on due diligence and responsibility, so that business and commercial decisions take due account of human rights, especially those of children and women, which are still often violated, and take into account social and environmental impacts, especially in the light of the ambitious challenges of the green and digital transition.
parliament has ensured that investeu contributes to achieving the target of spending at least 30% of eu funds on climate objectives.
i welcome the sustainable investment window and the research and innovation digitisation window in particular.
thanks, also, to all other members involved, in both the committee on fisheries (pech) and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their contributions.
with this vote comes an important responsibility towards your constituencies, and more broadly towards eu citizens who call for a more sustainable future, but also towards our international partners – if the eu is to be credible in championing global efforts on international ocean governance.
such lax standards would therefore undermine the common fisheries policy and the objective of the eu biodiversity strategy, and there would be risks of reputational damage for the eu at international level.
it is also contradictory to the eu’s trade and sustainable development policy, and it pre-empts the outcome of its upcoming review.
in the people's group we are well aware of the difficult circumstances in which maritime workers find themselves and the complicated situation the sector is now facing: brexit, the pandemic... fishermen do not deserve to be treated as suspected offenders, as suspected criminals; rather we need their understanding and cooperation and their support if european fisheries are to remain the most sustainable in the world.
this regulation is a decisive step towards the promotion of economically, socially and environmentally sustainable fisheries, which is the main objective of the cfp.
this information will improve labelling and consumer rights, so that consumers can reward truly sustainable european products with their purchases.
too often our small-scale fishers are squeezed out of the system while large companies make profits at the expense of sustainable stocks.
fairness and sustainability, this is what i fight for every day in the fisheries committee.
we can properly implement infringement procedures against rule breakers who put sustainable fisheries at risk.
this is for our fishers and this is for our marine environment.
transparency, good governance and public consultation are key to ensuring sustainable national plans.
for us, the romanian social democrats, three elements are essential: reflecting the objectives through investments in education, health, environment and digitalisation, reducing regional disparities and respecting the process of consulting local, regional authorities, social partners and presenting the plan to parliament.
now we want to ensure that the entire ecosystem moves towards an internal market dimension for the benefit of consumers, as the pandemic showed us that this is the necessary outlook for europe.
it’s time for the challenge of gender equality to be grasped, and grasped with energy and consistency by male leaders too.
despite this wound, the union has shown that it can start anew with a new impetus, which, by responding to the pandemic crisis, lays the foundations for a more modern and sustainable europe, capable of going beyond these national interests that have weighed so heavily in recent years.
a risk we can now say was worth taking: the text we are about to vote on is an ambitious agreement with innovative elements which must form the basis of the union's future trade policy, starting with a level playing field based on the clause of non-regression of production, social, environmental and economic standards.
so let us take this deal, expand it where it is incomplete, change it where it needs changing, and build a relationship that can actually be sustainable and mutually beneficial again.
and so, while we must be very firm, for example, on the irish question, for example, in ensuring that environmental conditions, social conditions are met in a fair way between the two sides, we must not be swayed by a discourse, which we see so often, which is a discourse of some arrogance and some disdain that i think will always have a negative effect on these relations.
we have many mutual issues, security challenges and an increasingly multifaceted international environment, with topics ranging from china, russia and the western balkans to combating climate change.
as we cooperate in governing and protecting our shared seas, the uk must not backtrack on environmental protection and marine biodiversity.
also peace on our island is crucial as a social, environmental and economic stability.
i want to give a special thanks to michel barnier, and of course to commissioner šefčovič, who is putting so much time and energy into the current work in relation to this issue.
if we are to promote a union of values, we must invest time, energy and resourcing into that.
– madam president, i am very grateful to the european parliament for giving me this opportunity to discuss ways of revitalising the tourism sector and making it more resilient, more prosperous and sustainable, and i would like to thank mep cláudia monteiro de aguiar for her report on establishing a new strategy for sustainable tourism.
we must also take into account that the tourism ecosystem will take longer to recover from the crisis than the other sectors as a large number of enterprises – mostly, as i said, smes – were not prepared and had no cushion allowing them to survive despite the measures taken by the member states.
the portuguese presidency encouraged all parties involved – member states, the european parliament, the commission, the private sector – to promote and support the transition of european tourism from a model focused on quantitative growth to a quality-based approach, leading to sustainable development and quality jobs.
through digitalisation and innovation in tourism, we can achieve a more competitive and sustainable tourism offer in europe, allowing for the emergence of new business models.
tourism policy should also contribute to reaching the eu climate goals and the objectives of the paris agreement in accordance with the un sustainable development goals.
green investment by public authorities and private actors will be required in the coming years to strengthen competitiveness and support the sustainable growth of the tourism sector in europe.
this holistic vision can be set out in a coordinated european agenda for tourism 2030-2050, underpinned by shared priorities and functioning as a roadmap towards a sustainable, innovative and resilient tourism ecosystem.
finally, i would like to take this opportunity to invite the representatives of the european parliament responsible for tourism policy to discuss all these issues at the high-level forum for sustainable tourism that the presidency will hold on 14 may in porto, in order to prepare the ground for the launch of the european agenda.
the reopening of businesses in the tourism ecosystem before the summer in a safe and attractive way for tourists will require a high level of coordination, both at national and union level.
due to the pandemic, the investment needs of the tourism ecosystem are extremely high - the highest of any industrial ecosystem.
the commission, as you can see, is fully committed to helping to revive the tourism ecosystem.
protecting businesses and jobs will obviously be at the heart of the union's agenda, as will our commitment to help rebuild a resilient, digital and sustainable tourism sector.
madam president, when we talk about tourism, we are talking about an entire ecosystem, hotel companies, catering companies, cleaning companies, cultural centres, transport companies, small and mediumsized enterprises, but tourism is above all a human process.
mass tourism had its downsides, from inflated house and rental costs for local people, to plastic pollution on our beaches, and the smog caused by cruise ships in our harbours.
this type of tourism limits the impact of high carbon costs – think of those eur 15 flights – and it supports local economies.
low carbon travel on modes such as this is part of our future.
the commitment to a more sustainable experience tourism is good for the sector, for users and for the planet.
the sector needs and deserves a european plan that supports digitisation, recycling, involving new actors in the creation of new offers; that promotes accessibility, energy efficiency of buildings, sustainable mobility on the journey and at the destination or the use of artificial intelligence to improve management, information to users ... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker).
they want to achieve our climate goals and they want to save biodiversity.
that is why the eu should focus its efforts on supporting sustainable tourism.
sustainability is also necessary at destination, ensuring a circular economy model in the accommodation and hospitality sectors.
this will then be a win-win-win situation for the environment, the people and the different sectors, especially nature—based tourism, such as agro— and ecotourism.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the european commission's communication on the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources (com (2016) 0173).
this will bring us closer to a secure and transparent internet environment for every european citizen.
in order to achieve the eu's climate goals, our railway companies will also have to make many investments in the future, and so it is right that we have not overburdened them, but at the same time we have also strengthened the rights of rail passengers.
we voted to boost rail because it’s a more sustainable and a more convenient way to travel, and because citizens demanded it.
it's a betrayal of all of us who know that we need investment in climate change and sustainability, not in warheads and tanks.
and for good reason, because climate change is happening and it is now irrefutable that these extreme climatic events will increase in frequency and intensity.
this is why we call on the regions in our cohesion regulations to take climate change adaptation into account in their development strategies and investments.
as noted by the report, member states and regions are increasingly confronted with natural disasters, which appear to be linked to climate change, as already mentioned by the rapporteur.
it is clear, though, that a sustainable recovery in croatia from such devastating earthquakes will take many years and considerable financial resources.
in recent years the commission has put an increasing focus on prevention, climate adaption and risk management policies, and through its research programme horizon 2020 and incoming horizon europe, new technologies are being developed to tackle these challenges.
for cohesion policy, disaster risk management is vital, because local and regional authorities are the first to face the impact of disasters, because it is a cost-effective investment in preventing future losses and because it contributes to sustainable development.
in 2014-2020, cohesion policy invested almost 8 billion across the eu in climate change adaption and risk prevention in the eu.
the commission’s proposals for cohesion policy after 2020 include precisely disaster risk management and climate adaption as specific objectives.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 18 may 2021.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by angel dzhambazki on challenges of sports events organisers in the digital environment (2020/2073(inl)) (a9 0139/2021).
the development of the digital environment facilitates access to all fans of sporting events, on all types of devices, and encourages the development of new online business models, while facilitating the illegal broadcasting of sporting events within and outside the union.
let me recall at the outset that the commission issued a declaration on the challenges of sport organisers in the digital environment in 2019 in the context of the adoption of the copyright directive and committed to assess these challenges.
they include measures for boosting connectivity and digitalisation, economic development, reinforcing sustainability by adjusting measures to population shifts, as well as essential infrastructure and services such as childcare facilities, health care and long-term care.
cohesion policy in 2021-2027 will continue to invest, to tackle demographic challenges and aging in a place-based approach adjusted to the actual needs of territories; to support investments addressing causes and consequences of demographic change under all policy objectives: more competitive and smarter europe through innovation and digitisation; green and low-carbon europe – we had the discussion on the transition fund; more connected europe, connectivity and accessibility; more social and inclusive europe through social infrastructure and services; and finally, a europe closer to citizens, integrating territorial approaches and local initiatives.
the common fisheries policy highlights the need for measures to reduce the levels of unwanted catches and to eliminate discards, since they constitute a substantial waste and negatively affect the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and marine ecosystems, and thereby the financial viability of fisheries.
the landing obligation will be taken into account in this report as it is the cornerstone of our policy for achieving sustainable fisheries.
(the sitting was suspended at 21.16)
the debate on the report by mrs monica silvana gonzález, on behalf of the committee on development, on the impact of climate change on vulnerable populations in developing countries (2020/2042 (ini)) - (a9-0115/2021) will continue.
fighting climate change is a top priority for this commission, and our capacity to respond to it will transform lives in the years to come.
climate change is indeed a threat multiplier for inequalities.
it is innovative in many ways and contains two new spending targets: a 30% contribution to climate action objectives and an indicative 10% for supporting management and governance of migration and forced displacement, as well as addressing root causes of irregular migration and forced displacement.
finally, as this report highlights, climate change affects people differently, depending on a number of factors, including gender.
as primary users and managers of natural resources, women play an essential role for climate change mitigation and adaptation and also on environmental protection.
the eu is determined to protect women from environmental degradation and climate change, particularly in the context of fragile situations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
– mr president, as the rapporteur of the environment committee’s opinion, i’m glad we’re acknowledging that only 10% of the global population is responsible for 52% of global emissions.
we also acknowledge in this report that the eu has a historic and ongoing responsibility for climate system breakdown, but its those in the global south who are still today paying most dearly for our exploitation and footing the bill for our climate debt.
i would start to take seriously the eu concerns about the impact climate change is having on vulnerable populations when it stops stealing trillions of euros from the global south each year, shows tax evasion, transfer, mis-pricing, expenditure, debt and aid arrangements and also starts to take seriously eu concerns for human rights when they start protecting the human rights of palestinians.
– mr president, climate change is happening right now as we speak, across the entire world.
as the un high commissioner for refugees, filippo grandi, said last week when he appeared before the committee on development (deve) – and i agree with everything he had to say – we should focus our efforts on climate mitigation and adaptation efforts and, in my opinion, these must be at the top of our priority list.
we know that in europe, we passed the climate law, a monumental step forward.
in ireland, the climate action bill will do ground—breaking work.
but these critical actions must also apply to what europe does in other parts of the world, supporting ldcs and sids in tackling climate change.
europe is leading the way as the biggest contributor to climate finance in developing countries.
we must continue to lead and take action now to support those populations that i have spoken about that are vulnerable to climate change in developing countries.
mr president, the climate—related covid crisis has given us all a wake-up call.
sadly, the world’s most vulnerable populations are already awake to the ravages of climate change.
climate change is a political and ethical issue.
in this respect, i am disappointed to see that some of my colleagues are not prepared to recognise climate refugees’ rights to international protection.
we call on all those in positions of power – the commission, the member states – to wake up, protect climate refugees and implement international debt forgiveness in the face of the climate and pandemic crisis.
moving to an environmentally sustainable world economy is something that we have to adjust to in terms of how we fund it and how we ensure that we remain competitive as an entity in the european union and, at the same time, that we transfer the funding of the policies from labour and from some of the areas like income tax into the key areas where we know that there is additional income.
the environmental liability directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage is doing its job well.
this is of course important in terms of increasing the transparency of incident and environmental damage reporting data, but it cannot be done in breach of the rules on the protection or disclosure of business secrets.
instead, we should ensure that european companies have sufficient financial capacity to meet their obligations in the event of environmental damage.
the protection of nature and the environment is the concern, the task and the responsibility of all economic actors.
taking responsibility for environmental damage is key to ensuring that european businesses operate sustainably in the long term.
the environmental liability directive applies to all companies operating in the eu's internal market, including companies incorporated outside the eu.
responsible business conduct presupposes that companies pay due attention to environmental aspects, in particular the prevention of pollution.
it is important that eu environmental legislation should help prevent such cases.
i agree: the environmental liability directive needs revision.
environmental damage is a public health crisis.
the cost to society for climate change, noise, air pollution and loss of biodiversity is almost eur 1 trillion a year within the european union, and that’s the commission’s figures.
so i welcome this report for its provisions for corporate due diligence and specifically on the calls for support and access to justice for the victims of environmental damage.
if we want to deliver on the european green deal and if we want to tackle climate and protect citizens then we need much higher levels of environmental protection.
we have argued that in amending the aarhus regulation, we should try to provide the highest standards of environmental protection possible, but at the very least, we should ensure that eu complies with the aarhaus convention and therefore with international law, which had not been the case.
there were efforts to retain significant barriers to access to environmental justice and even to introduce some additional barriers, but to his credit, the rapporteur has improved things and the text we will vote on this week is a positive one.
the text would significantly improve the ability of environmental ngos to challenge eu decisions.
only last week, in the irish parliament, the taoiseach criticised the environmental ngo an taisce’s decision to appeal a high court decision in relation to a planning decision for a proposed cheese plant on the basis that it would lead to increased carbon emissions and further fuel ireland’s already unsustainable dairy expansion.
the two right-wing parties in ireland, fianna fáil and fine gael, had been supporters of big dairy for many years, at the expense of small farmers and the environment in ireland.
it was bad enough that since 2015, the irish government and irish banks have been, regardless of the environment, encouraging farmers to borrow money and increase the size of their dairy herd, putting many young farmers into debt and at the mercy of the banks and finding themselves running to stand still just to make a living.
that amounts to an irish government in climate change denial.
ireland is a signatory of the aarhus convention and an taisce clearly has a fundamental right to challenge decisions that contravene environmental law.
public scrutiny is necessary and important for large-scale environmental interventions.
in fact, we are constantly confronted with a variety of interests in environmental interventions, whether at national, regional or local level, or at the level of companies or individuals.
the desire for development and new projects brings us to the point where we have to ask ourselves what is prioritized and what is more important, necessary and sustainable.
only then will the public concerned be able to take an effective stand for the environment.
citizens are too often left in the lurch when no institution is willing to take responsibility and act appropriately in the event of an environmental disaster or in the case of the interests of environmentally unfriendly capital.
as parties to the aarhus convention, we recognise that adequate protection of the environment is essential for human well-being and for the realisation of fundamental human rights, including the right to life itself.
for me, environmental protection is a matter of justice, it is inextricably linked to the rule of law and it is a responsibility to our children.
we rely on local authorities to enforce community environmental standards, but in our forests, bears are still being killed, trees are still being cut down and garbage is still being illegally dumped.
first of all, citizens, activists, civil society must be part of european environmental policy, they must have access to information and to justice.
where the efforts of the commission and national bodies are not sufficient, environmental ngos must be able to intervene in their capacity as protectors of nature.
secondly, but very importantly, we need a functioning pan-european mechanism for environmental crime, regardless of borders.
mr president, on 19 may 1990, on this very day 31 years ago, the irish national broadcaster reported that there was now scientific consensus that we were entering a period of dramatic change and uncertainty in the world’s climate.
every friday, school strikers across ireland, europe and across the world are still rightly demanding climate and environmental justice.
climate justice is our response to the moral failings of our politics and our economics.
individuals, communities, and organisations must have the right to hold not just member states, but also eu institutions, to account for decisions taken on the environment.
the changes we are voting on this week as a parliament, while they could go further, are key to holding the eu to the commitments of the aarhus convention and ensuring real democratic control in the eu on environmental matters.
if we are serious about implementing the european green deal and the sustainable development goals, then eu environment laws must be up to the task.
it is simply a case of accountability, of environmental democracy.
as a legislator, i am proud to stand for broader access to climate and environmental justice.
today's european citizens and even future generations should have the right to enjoy an environment that is good for their health and well-being.
this brings a responsibility on all of us to give the green light when this right is jeopardised, especially when environmental risks are placed at the bottom of the priority list in projects being developed in our communities.
our biodiversity, our water, our air quality and our soil cannot do this fight for our future generations.
we are their voice and in a climate emergency it should be our legacy to ensure that we leave behind a healthy environment, if possible, better than what we have created.
on access to justice for citizens on environmental issues?
thirty years ago the rio declaration said environmental issues are best handled with the participation of all concerned citizens at the relevant level.
eighteen months ago the urgenda case in the supreme court of the netherlands said the state must act on climate change.
three weeks ago in germany, the luisa neubauer case in the german constitutional court made history, and next month in ireland an environmental non-governmental organisation an taisce will seek permission to overturn a planning permission for a cheese plant promoted by the dutch company royal a-ware and irish company glanbia that will encourage increases in greenhouse gas emissions.
what all three cases have in common is that they require access to justice in environmental matters.
we must ensure that the environment is protected.
agriculture is the sector most affected by climate change.
and thirdly, how does the commission intend to improve the adaptation of crops to climate change?
i have always said, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that agriculture is part of the solution to the problem of the environment and climate change, not the problem.
at the same time, it is the only sector that can naturally store co2 and thus contribute to climate protection automatically.
honourable members of the european parliament, risk management requires three essential elements: risk prevention and adaptation to new conditions, in particular environmental and climate ones, the right risk management tools to deal with it, and an adequate budget to finance it.
farmers may receive public support to address the risk from climate-related events from all risk management instruments, such as insurance, mutual funds or income stabilisation tools.
the commission recognises the increased exposure of the sector to climate-related risks.
farmers increasingly face the consequences of the climate and biodiversity crisis.
as regards the last question: what action the commission is planning to take in the field of research to improve the adaptation of crops to climate change?
research and innovation have a key role to play in helping permanent crops to adjust to climate change, including late frost.
for instance, innovine research and innovation project aimed at developing knowledge tools and genetic resources necessary to better adapt viticulture to climate change.
this situation is compounded by the dramatic effects of the covid-19 pandemic and poses a serious threat to the social and economic sustainability of rural europe.
we can no longer allow catastrophic events of this kind, which are becoming more frequent and directly linked to climate change, to be met only by the commitment and the spirit of sacrifice of our producers.
it is the climate change that is at issue.
the climate disruption has made these uncertainties not exceptional but commonplace.
this model, which is partly responsible for the climate catastrophes we see year after year, is also incapable of responding to the consequences of these same catastrophes.
the green deal for europe and the farm to fork and biodiversity strategies need to move from theory and rhetoric to concrete implementation.
some are connected to global warming, others are connected to privatisation and the neo—liberalisation of the agricultural sector.
the fact of the matter is that the neo—liberal ideology not only drives us faster towards climate systems breakdown, but compounds the disastrous effects of the ravages of climate change.
some sectors of agriculture, like dairy and beef, are contributing to climate catastrophe.
this is the context of global warming: the violent and forced suppression and control of the global south, which is used as a site of resource extraction to feed the perpetual growth of the global north as it continues to billow out carbon emissions and speed along climate disaster.
not only does the eu help destroy the environment where it extracts its raw material from, it ensures that these areas of extraction do not have the resources available to mitigate and implement the most basic mechanisms to protect their own populations from destruction.
now european agriculture is suffering from the effects of global warming that the developed world’s capitalist system helped bring about.
the spring frosts and extreme weather events have become part of everyday life, and even if the global north were to take real action to deal with climate change, which means degrowth, it would take many years before we would start seeing signs of improvement, but start we must.
the producers that i have spoken to have all said that the best thing for them as farmers would be for the eu to engage in real climate action.
bruno rivetti, a producer in neive in piemonte said to me: these increasingly frequent and intense frost waves are the consequences of climate change due both to pollution and to the exploitation of the land and natural resources.
we have a climate and ecological emergency which, among other things, has resulted in one in eight species of flora and fauna being at risk of extinction today and if this known reality does not make us learn from it and change our methods, we will not only lead to the extinction of these species, but we will also do more damage to our health as humans.
this week, having heard a lot of talk about the economy and trade, the president of the maltese chamber of commerce, marisa xuereb, made a heartfelt appeal for the environment and i will repeat it here today.
this strategy of protecting biodiversity, for the first time based on science, and making small changes to what we are used to doing, but yielding big results, is therefore a step in the right direction to protect the environment and ourselves.
unfortunately, too many beaches suffer from failure to protect biodiversity and sensitive ecosystems.
so this week, here in the european parliament, we must call for urgent action to protect marine biodiversity by creating bigger and better marine protected areas, by having legally—binding targets for plastic—free oceans by 2030 and by calling for an ambitious global ocean treaty.
tomorrow it is high time to take action, to seize the moment and to support a strong eu biodiversity strategy that protects nature – marine and terrestrial – systemically and fundamentally.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the question for oral answer to the commission on climate change resilient fisheries and aquaculture in the eu tabled by pierre karleskind, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000034/2021 - b9-0022/21) (2021/2699 ((rsp)).
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mr pierre karleskind, for giving me the opportunity to introduce this important debate on the oral question on fisheries and aquaculture and resilience to climate change.
on 24 february 2021, the commission adopted the communication entitled 'building a climate resilient europe - the eu's new climate change adaptation strategy', which sets out how the european union can adapt to unavoidable impacts and become resilient by 2050. adaptation measures are crucial to address the effects of a changing climate by building resilient societies capable of minimising adverse effects.
as the average age in many of our european coastal communities is over 50, generational change and diversification of activities remain a challenge and the inevitable negative effects of climate change and job loss are a serious threat to them.
in this context, we ask the commissioner and the european commission in the debate to answer the following questions: what measures will the commission propose to encourage the european union's fisheries and aquaculture sectors to be resilient to climate change?
how will the european commission address the issue of climate resilience in the context of its assessment of the functioning of the common fisheries policy?
that is, the way in which the cfp takes climate change mitigation and adaptation into account.
what concrete measures are envisaged to address, mitigate and counter the negative effects and likely job losses in sectors affected by climate change, such as european fisheries and aquaculture?
what further measures will the european commission also put forward to integrate considerations of climate resilience into resource management such as fisheries (managed jointly with other partners, not just by the european union) or the protection of biodiversity in areas outside our national jurisdictions?
one of the main priorities of this commission is addressing the global challenge of climate change and its consequences for our ecosystems.
while the eu does everything within its power to mitigate climate change, notably through the objective of becoming carbon neutral by 2050 under the european green deal, we must also get ready to face the unavoidable impacts of climate change.
this means we must adapt to the numerous devastating effects of climate change, mitigate the consequences and build our resilience.
eu action to foster climate resilience through climate adaptation must involve all parts of our society and our economy.
achieving climate resilience in a just and fair way is essential so that the benefits of climate adaptation are widely and equitably shared and nobody is left behind.
therefore, the new eu strategy on adaptation to climate change, which the commission adopted back in february, foresees specific measures to increase the resilience of our fishing sector.
more precisely, this new strategy follows up on three scientific assumptions established by the intergovernmental panel on climate change in its special report on the ocean in a changing climate of 2019. first, over the 21st century, oceans are expected to reach an unprecedented temperature increase, further acidification, as well as oxygen decline and decreasing primary production.
more concretely, the tools already available under the common fisheries policy are essential to improve ecosystem resilience in relation to climate change, in particular by reducing fishing pressure and effectively governing the eu fleets.
moreover, the new eu climate adaptation strategy foresees that the commission will, in its report of 2022 on the functioning of the common fisheries policy, assess how this policy caters for climate change adaptation, in particular in view of the large—scale changes in marine ecosystems.
the ongoing review of the marine strategy framework directive will also look into the climate aspects in relation to the protection of the marine environment, which both fisheries and aquaculture are part of, and the upcoming action plan to conserve fisheries resources and protect marine ecosystems will also exploit the synergies between the fisheries and environmental and climate policies.
the new climate adaptation strategy also foresees that the eu promote the establishment of marine protected areas internationally, thereby building on the targets of the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030. as you know, under the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030, the eu committed to the protection of 30% of eu seas, of which 10% are strictly protected.
in addition, the new nature restoration law announced by the biodiversity strategy will aim to restore marine and coastal ecosystems in order to achieve good environmental status of eu seas, boosting climate—related services rendered by marine ecosystems.
meeting the targets at eu level will also raise the credibility of the eu to push for more decisive action against climate change internationally.
in fact, at international level, the new eu climate adaptation strategy foresees that the eu will integrate climate considerations in the current negotiations on the protection of biodiversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction under the un convention on the law of the sea.
the eu will also engage with regional fisheries management organisations to promote climate adaptation and new marine protected areas.
finally, it is important to mention that climate adaptation in relation to oceans is also addressed at the next united nations climate change conference.
a dialogue on ocean and climate change took place for the first time in december 2020 at the climate change conference cop25, and we will also continue to engage constructively on this front at the upcoming cop26.
it supports low—impact and sustainable fishing and aquaculture, as well as actions that contribute to the good environmental status of the marine environment.
the commission is determined to use all tools at its disposal, domestically and internationally, to build climate—resilient fisheries and aquaculture sectors.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, what better day than world oceans day to reaffirm that fisheries and aquaculture are the best option to fight climate change.
no one should doubt our commitment to the objectives of the paris agreement on climate change, while at the same time we are committed to job creation and sustainable growth, so that food production is not threatened.
the commission is proposing to close 30% of the oceans under the pretext of protecting biodiversity at a time of particular difficulty for the sector.
the creation of new marine protected areas is virtually the only tool explicitly envisaged in the commission's document on a new european union strategy for adaptation to climate change.
we must not forget that the fisheries and aquaculture sector is the victim of climate change, not the source.
this is precisely why one of the priorities of the new emff should be to support innovation and investment in selective low-carbon, climate-sensitive and low-impact fishing practices and techniques.
because climate change affects fisheries all over the world and because fighting climate change is everyone's job.
climate change is already here.
– madam president, make no mistake about it: our fishers, coastal communities and marine ecosystems have already been experiencing the impact of climate change and global warming for many years now.
unfortunately, the pain caused by climate change is not shared equitably.
in ireland, the iconic atlantic salmon could disappear entirely from our shores in the coming years because of climate change.
climate change is affecting our ability to sustainably manage stocks and guarantee fair winds and following seas for all fishers equally.
we already have many tools to ensure the sustainability and fairness of our fisheries, yet the eu and its member states fail to use them effectively on an annual basis.
today, my colleagues and i from the committee on fisheries are here to call on the commission and member states to take action to secure sustainability and fairness for all our fishers.
we need transparency in quota negotiations; we need to bring stocks above maximum sustainable yield, as promised years ago; we need to provide incentives for sustainable fishing, and we urgently need to implement effective marine-protected areas to protect marine habitats and allow fish stocks to recover.
we therefore want to send a clear message to our friends in sri lanka that the european union will never tell our partners what to do, but will try to advise them that the situation that is currently in sri lanka is not sustainable in the long term.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on our european climate law.
so yes, this climate bill is a major step forward in stopping global warming.
and in that sense, commissioner timmermans, the signal of those countless protesters during the climate marches has been heard... but no, this will not be enough to stop global warming.
so we have to go all out for a 65 percent reduction of those emissions by 2030, instead of doing creative math, where we're still dipping below 55 percent.
the new climate law will force changes in many areas of socio-economic life.
how much will energy poverty increase?
even the richest economies in the member states are afraid of economic collapse, of emissions flight, of industry moving out of the union.
commissioner timmermans said that climate change will hurt, especially the countries of central and eastern europe, especially poland, which has a coal-based energy mix.
madam president, 55% emissions, net.
we have been fleecing the global south now for centuries and now we have a 2030 climate target that’s not even close to our fair share of the responsibility for climate catastrophe.
in fact, this climate law lets us continue eating into the planetary space of the global south and lets us forget how much of it we have already stolen from them.
yes, it's good that we finally have a legal basis for achieving climate neutrality.
but we all know that the ambitious goals we are being asked to adopt here today are not on the path to meeting our commitments under the paris climate agreement.
and it is not helping that conservative groups, but also liberals and social democrats in all different policy areas are doing their best to reduce climate targets.
the common agricultural policy is facing a total failure to create a climate-neutral agriculture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is an undeniable reality, and it is forcing policy makers to act now.
the ambitious targets for achieving climate neutrality by 2050 require us to ensure that all economic sectors are engaged in this battle, but also that they experience a smooth transition.
at the same time, some sectors, such as forestry and agriculture, need to be seen as part of the solutions to achieve the targets and to preserve biodiversity.
- ladies and gentlemen, we have a european climate law.
a unicum, making europe the first major power to enact binding legislation to be climate neutral by 2050. and we've set the bar ambitiously, but realistically high.
what is needed above all are feasible, affordable and stimulating measures, measures that ensure sustainable economic growth and jobs.
madam president, the climate is changing.
when i was born, the level of carbon dioxide in the earth’s atmosphere was around 320 parts per million.
europe’s emissions are higher than most, and we have a moral responsibility to be ambitious in our response.
and as we prepare for cop26 in glasgow this autumn, we need to go further and faster to tackle the climate and biodiversity crisis.
my government is proposing significant reductions in emissions.
the greens want to see more support for greater climate action.
madam president, i very much welcome this european climate law.
but what we must do now is use the science, use the innovation and the creativity of humankind to ensure that we can bring technologies and funding and policies in place, to ensure that we play our part as individuals and collectively as member states, in ensuring that we address the climate crisis that’s in our midst.
we cannot any longer deny that there are significant challenges and problems across the entire planet: displacement of people, desertification and other huge changes in how we live and the upheavals of various countries in terms of the problems of climate change itself.
the transition to a climate—neutral economy presents massive opportunities to transform our societies and economies.
that is why we need strong just transition funding programmes to support regions and communities who are at the forefront of the climate transition.
no one should be left behind in the climate transition, and with over eur 100 billion in potential funding we now have a huge job to do to implement these programmes quickly and efficiently.
we have a long way to go in this climate transition.
my country, ireland, has benefited from eur 19 billion-worth of financing from the eib since the start of its operations, providing crucial support for our transport infrastructure and renewable energy.
this has helped transform our economy, but given the enormous environmental and post-pandemic challenges we now face, public and private investment has never been more important.
next generation eu will help us achieve digital and environmental transformation and ensure economic recovery.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: - the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, on the connecting europe facility (06115/2/2021 c9-0214/2021 2018/0228 ((cod)) (rapporteurs: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
we have many years of negotiations behind us and i am very pleased that we can now this week finally confirm this europe of networks regulation, which will fund over eur 30 billion over the next seven years for important crossborder infrastructure projects in the fields of transport and energy and digitalisation.
europe's aim of becoming climate neutral by 2050. of course, this means really big reforms and investments for both industry and society.
the very big innovation of course for this programme is that now at least 60% of all investment will be directed towards infrastructure that will specifically reduce emissions in the future, so this is very strongly linked to achieving climate objectives.
energy will be a key element in the coming season.
it is important that we are able to link up the european energy networks, that we have energy flowing from one member state to another and that no country is dependent on a single source of energy.
we have identified the main projects for the transeuropean energy networks, but now, as a new element, this programme also funds crossborder renewable energy projects.
my colleagues on the transport committee will be giving more details on this, but i am particularly pleased that rail investment is now a major priority, because it will also contribute to the rapid and safe transport across europe and, of course, to the achievement of the climate objectives.
sustainable transport solutions across europe and their support play a very important role in this.
we will aim to make it possible, now that europe is investing in new, modern and fast infrastructure, to link transport networks, digital networks and energy networks even more closely, including by having alternative fuel distribution networks along all major transport corridors and very fast digital connections along all major transport corridors.
this will help us to have an efficient, functioning and modern internal market, which will help our companies and industry to compete internationally, but on the other hand it will also help europe to be able to achieve the very ambitious climate targets we have set for the future.
it must also be said that while we can now be pleased that many years of negotiation have been completed and that we have reached agreement with the council and parliament on the positions, the budget reached here - over eur 30 billion - is certainly a significant budget, but parliament would have considered it important that we had invested even more in digital networks, even more in transport infrastructure as well as in energy infrastructure.
i think very important, in my opinion, is the regulation that ultimately sets the union's transport policy apart from, of course, the digital and energy chapters.
this is a fact that must be repeated again and again: whether in the field of transport, energy or digital, efficient infrastructure is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, the strengthening of the union's social, economic and territorial cohesion, the emergence of our strategic autonomy and the achievement of the green deal.
to meet its environmental ambitions and to remain competitive on the world stage, europe faces two major challenges.
all the requirements legitimate: environmental, technical, civic, democratic requirements make applications and permits for major projects more complex, making them more uncertain and vulnerable.
the criteria for allocating funds and the centralised governance make it possible to manage these funds in line with our political and climate ambitions.
the ability to build transport, digital and energy infrastructure is an essential condition for the success of our green deal.
in the face of economic recovery and the need to accelerate the ecological transition, these delays and difficulties are simply unacceptable.
economic recovery, environmental transition and the vitality of our territories require us to increase and accelerate our investments.
ensuring europe's competitiveness tomorrow and starting the environmental transition today are not two irreconcilable objectives.
in rail, shipping, renewable energy, digital, but let's invest!
a system that will reduce congestion and that needs the railway as a key piece to meet climate goals.
according to the union's climate monitoring methodology, the deployment of ertms represents a 40% contribution to climate and environmental objectives and also links to support for the overall process of digitisation of the union economy.
the trans—european networks represent the physical connections between our countries – the transport, energy and digital connections.
with the connecting europe facility (cef) we have a tool to future—proof our trans—european networks for transport, energy and digital.
cef ii, which you are endorsing today, will support the goals of the european green deal and our sustainable and smart mobility strategy with at least 60% of funding allocated to actions supporting the eu’s climate objectives.
we will also be making the network fit for the digital revolution, crisis—proof and resilient to climate change.
for energy, cef supports the development of priority cross—border energy infrastructure projects as part of the ten—e networks, further integration of the internal energy market and interoperability between networks across borders.
it also includes a new window for cross—border projects in the field of renewable energy to support renewable projects, and for digital cef supports the deployment of state—of—the art digital networks and 5g systems.
investing in ten—t infrastructure projects involves environmental assessments, land—use approvals, public procurement, state aid procedures and other authorisations and permits.
if more people choose rail we will be on track to meet our emissions targets.
particularly important now while mainstreaming green deal ambitions for 2030 and aiming for climate neutrality by 2050, the cef will seek to better integrate the transport, energy and digital sectors.
cef for transport focuses on decarbonisation and making transport connected, multimodal, sustainable, inclusive, safe and secure.
cef for energy contributes to the transition towards clean energy and the completion of the energy union.
it will aim to make eu energy systems more interconnected, smarter and digitalised.
we need cef for energy to focus more on cross-border energy projects and, as commissioner vălean has just mentioned, it will promote the interoperability of networks and a better integration of the internal energy market.
the so-called trans-european energy networks are also crucial to the eu's ambitions for a truly fossil-free society.
we do not have a real internal energy market, and we must have one.
the international energy agency reminded us just a short while ago that we need more cooperation across borders if we are to combat climate change.
the connecting europe facility will connect the eu’s energy, transport and digital networks.
in the area of transport, it must be used exclusively for sustainable mobility, allowing people and goods to move freely without harming people or planet.
is this the beginning of irreversible climate change?
they undermine our climate goals.
there’s a major carbon lock-in with the risk that these transport and energy projects that last for decades the ‘do no significant harm principle’, it would have helped the worst excesses, but it was rejected by the negotiators.
eu funding needs to align with the ‘not harm’ and ‘not harm our environmental goals’.
the next item is the debate on the report by grace o’sullivan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a general union environment action programme to 2030 (com(2020)0652 – c9-0329/2020 – 2020/0300(cod)) (a9-0203/2021).
the eighth environment action programme has the potential to play an important role in decision-making on the environment over the next decade – the critical decade for environmental action.
with this report, i call on you to face the real urgency for strong, effective environmental legislation in the eu and vote to support this report in its entirety.
in november 2019, we in the european parliament declared a climate and environment emergency.
speeches and declarations and grandiose plans that at face value would have us all believing that the climate and environment emergency is in hand, and that we’ll soon see, as the saying goes – everything rosy in the garden.
we need immediate, comprehensive and sustained environmental action.
the eu’s environment action programme to 2030 can help deliver on those ambitions.
this report is on track with six environmental priorities for the eu from now to 2030: climate mitigation, climate adaptation, transitioning to a circular economy, achieving zero pollution, protecting and restoring biodiversity, and reducing the eu’s production and consumption footprint.
gdp, for example, is not a meaningful measure of human and ecological wellbeing, and we know that the aim of eternal economic growth is fundamentally unsustainable.
this report, therefore, puts forward a bold and timely proposal on transitioning beyond gdp to a sustainable wellbeing economy that puts the wellbeing of people and the planet at the heart of policy and decision-making.
finally, the commission presented the monitoring framework as the real added-value of the eighth environmental action programme.
we need to get this planet back on a path to recovery, and for that to happen we need environmental protection, conservation and restoration on a massive scale, which must be part of broader systemic change.
a vote for the full report that was adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) is a vote for a serious, genuine conviction, and commitment to get us out of this crisis and ensure the survival of life on our planet and into the future.
– madam president, honourable members, marine living resources and the spectacular biodiversity of the southern ocean are severely affected by global climate change.
marine protected areas aim to encompass the full range of biodiversity present in the convention area, which covers the southern ocean.
they aim to contribute to conserving the unique antarctic ecosystem structure and function.
marine protected areas make marine ecosystems more resilient in the fight against global climate change.
they would cover an area of more than 3 million km2 and present a powerful response to the global biodiversity and climate crisis.
on this occasion the ministers and high-level representatives of australia, france, germany, sweden, spain, belgium, poland, italy, the united states, the uk, norway, uruguay, new zealand, chile and argentina, and the european commissioner for environment, oceans and fisheries, on behalf of the eu and its member states, signed a joint declaration calling for the swift adoption of the two new proposals and welcoming other proposals on the establishment of additional mpas.
the designation of new antarctic marine protected areas is a concrete deliverable of both the eu’s biodiversity strategy 2030 and of the eu’s international ocean governance agenda.
it would also be fully consistent with the sustainable development goals and the ambitions set forth for the cop15 of the convention on biological biodiversity that will take place during the slovenian presidency.
hopefully this will reveal the memory of the original intention behind multilateral cooperation in this area and facilitate timely adoption of the eu proposal aiming at the protection of the unique biodiversity of the antarctic.
it is, therefore, a place where the two biggest crises of our time are coming to a head: climate change and biodiversity loss.
climate change is already having profound and potentially irreversible impacts on the southern ocean.
this is particularly alarming because the southern ocean plays a major role in regulating the global climate system.
climate change is also one of the major drivers of the second global crisis, that of the loss of biodiversity.
it is the responsibility of the entire international community to address this dual crisis of biodiversity loss and climate change.
the european union, as a member of the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources (ccamlr), has a particular responsibility to conserve and protect the biodiversity of the southern ocean.
we know that large-scale marine protected areas (mpas) can help conserve marine biodiversity, maintain ecosystems, absorb large amounts of global carbon emissions and build ocean resilience against the impacts of climate change.
that is the reason why the international community has agreed to a united nations sustainable development goal, under which we should conserve at least 10% of coastal and marine areas through marine protected areas by 2020. currently, marine protected areas only cover 7.6% of seas and oceans globally.
this is the eu position within the high ambition coalition for nature and people as a major element of the global biodiversity framework to be adopted at the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity.
the designation of these new protected areas is a key deliverable of the eu’s biodiversity strategy for 2030 and a key priority for this commission.
this would constitute a historic act of environmental protection.
the commission will also continue to play an active role in the negotiations on an ambitious, legally binding agreement on marine biodiversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction (bbnj), where we are advocating for a clear global mechanism to identify, designate and effectively manage ecologically representative marine protected areas in the high seas.
i have already mentioned that the eu will be pushing for the adoption of an ambitious post—2020 global biodiversity framework at the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in kunming.
we will also invite our international partners to join the global ‘30 by 30’ goal of protecting 30% planet’s lands and oceans by 2030. we will continue to lead international negotiations to increase the ambition of our major emitters ahead of the united nations climate change cop in glasgow this year.
you've clearly described that there's irreversible climate change, significant warming, and consequent damage to biodiversity.
we are the world's leading environmental policy.
we're raising awareness of the problems that are associated with climate change.
i caught my first glimpse of antarctica from the deck of a greenpeace ship, long before climate change was recognised by world leaders as an urgent crisis.
in the european parliament today, once again we recognise that antarctica is a space of rich biodiversity.
it’s more threatened by climate change now than ever before.
at the same time, fiscal sustainability is an important objective and we therefore have to seek a framework that allows for both – growth-enhancing investments and debt reduction in a credible and effective way.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) after these very interesting announcements and before we proceed to the debate, i would like to give the floor, in accordance with rule 59 (4), to mrs o'sullivan on the referral to the committee on interinstitutional negotiations of her report on a general union action programme on the environment up to 2030. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the best solution for aviation is to have research and development and to get to sustainable transportation, and i'm sorry that there's this double talk.
we want environmental sustainability, but at the same time, we don't want to give more money to clean sky.
the fourth uncertainty is that of the constraints which will be imposed for environmental reasons in particular.
mr president, climate change and the climate crisis are here and are irreparably and relentlessly affecting the whole of europe.
i would also like to ask the european union to strengthen the climate change solidarity fund so that it can support all those affected and repair the damage.
first, climate change and its impact and its devastating effect is here.
but, third, we have got to bear in mind that what we are talking about with our fit for 55 and our climate law is to embody these objectives and this need for preventive measures, and not only repair measures, when we are preparing our plans.
now we have a huge financial support to build back better, and the content of building back better has got to include a substantial amount of these preventive climate-related projects.
let’s see how we can organise ourselves with the available instruments in order to reach the best in the answer and preparation for a climate that is more and more aggressive.
climate change is a reality causing natural disasters five times more frequently than in previous years.
sometimes natural disasters are the consequence of environmental crimes, others aren’t.
specifically, for horizon europe you have proposed cuts of eur 316 million, which i find difficult to understand given the excellent absorption capacity of the programme and the importance of research for the competitiveness and sustainability of our economy.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
2022 has to be a full implementation year for eu programmes with important priorities for the social recovery, sustainable future, solidarity and eu values.
women of the world: let's unite to help afghan women and girls with all our strength; the brave protests in the streets show that they are full of energy, hope and dreams.
instead, europe now needs to provide sustainable refuge for those who have fled the mess we helped to create.
it is clear that in tackling climate change in the corona crisis, we will also need our eu structural funds for long-term transitions.
like the just transition fund for territories most exposed to carbon neutrality, the brexit adjustment reserve now offers us the opportunity to renew european solidarity towards those most affected by the united kingdom's departure from the union.
as the greens efa group, we’re pleased with some of the additions to the final deal, such as an emphasis on support for sustainable small-scale fishers and the importance of consulting with local partners.
mr president, commissioner, in 2015 the united nations member states adopted the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which aims to leave no one behind, increasing global development and the quality of life of citizens.
i would stress the commitment of the european parliament to scrutinize the external dimension of european union policies relating to combating biodiversity loss in developing countries.
this commitment also meant that 10% of the european resources to be invested in the next decade, under the new generation of funds, were to be allocated to the promotion and protection of biodiversity.
i welcome the reference in this report to the importance of protecting indigenous peoples and local communities, the primary custodians of biodiversity, and of investing in policies that guarantee food sovereignty, whether through fisheries, grazing or agriculture, and protecting the areas of the globe most vulnerable to deforestation and climate change.
– mr president, dear colleagues, throughout our planet, biodiversity is interlinked, interconnected and interrelated.
for nature and humanity to survive and thrive together and for the sustainable development goals to be achieved, the current trends in biodiversity loss must be reversed.
in the eighth environment action programme, for example, we call for an end to harmful subsidies.
we need action on local and indigenous empowerment around, for example, protecting ocean biodiversity in a way that respects human rights.
biodiversity is the bedrock of many sdgs, and its loss is undermining progress.
we also call for urban space to be redesigned, putting people and public transport at the centre and promoting active mobility with safe infrastructure for those walking and cycling because, when it comes to mobility, safety and sustainability go hand in hand.
these well-meaning messages are abnormalising what should be the normal and sustainable behaviour of walking and cycling, or indeed playing in the street.
this is the case for all parties involved, including the steel industry in germany, the eu and beyond, which is in need of a green energy transition.
there is little time left to stop global warming caused by climate change.
we also have nine years left to reach the un sustainable development goals for all countries on earth.
the fight against poverty, the protection of the environment, universal access to health and education, disarmament and peace should be the common goals of our partnership with the united states.
the main challenge is climate change.
the areas on which we can agree collectively would be the whole area of climate change and the need to address that with the resources of the european union and the united states of america, ensuring that other large players, like china, russia, india and other trading blocs come together to ensure that the climate change agenda is kept very much to the fore, and ensuring that there is real and significant action on it to ensure that citizens globally can benefit from a healthy environment in the time ahead.
to be very clear: the transatlantic alliance is important, but it must be refocused not on areas of defence, but on areas of climate change and humanitarian aid to poorer regions of the world as well.
madam president, commissioner, the crisis that the pandemic has produced in the tourism sector has accelerated another reflection that was already underway: sustainability must be one of the key factors in the design and delivery of tourism services.
digitalisation and the use of new technologies and innovation processes should improve issues of great impact on the tourism sector: the design of the offer, the incorporation of new operators, the improvement of the position of local actors in the value chain, the prevention of saturation, the energy efficiency of buildings, the treatment of waste, the decarbonisation of mobility and training in line with these challenges are some of them.
madam president, don’t confuse the super profits of oil and gas companies and the political manoeuvring of vladimir putin and gazprom with the rise in energy prices.
some blame the rise in gas prices on the emissions trading scheme.
that’s good news for the eu energy security, and it’s good news for the consumer as well.
high fossil fuel prices are a wake—up call, a call for action as we prepare to revise the energy performance of buildings directive.
so let’s tackle energy poverty by insulating homes, creating jobs and reducing emissions.
it also deprives the sinners of an essential element of a stable financial environment, namely, personal responsibility.
and finally, there can be no half-hearted talk or writing in this parliament about being green and climate neutral.
the banking union must therefore also support the climate religion in this report.
it will also help handle a challenging macroeconomic environment, an ageing society, high levels of debt and low interest.
i also want to say that the issue of climate change was mentioned in some of the contributions, and climate change is a risk to financial stability unless it is properly accounted for.
secondly, the principles of sustainable finance and environmental indicators need to be incorporated into the banks' operations and lending.
yet we need more cooperation in areas such as health and the environment.
so let us not waste any more time and resume the legislative dialogue.
the project is already promoting active sustainable travel for walkers, cyclists and anyone who wants to make use of the space, and it’s an interreg project due for completion at the end of 2021 and it has benefited from erdf cross-border funding.
it will reduce congestion on the roads, thereby decreasing air and noise pollution, and it will improve road safety.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
indeed, last month we heard vice-president timmermans speak about how environmental action 10 years earlier would have avoided the current energy crisis.
state aid can help us address the rise in gas prices by supporting energy efficiency measures in buildings.
you know we need a massive investment in the deep retrofit or renovation of buildings, buildings like this one, which only has an e energy rating – and the ‘e’ doesn’t stand for europe!
state aid can help in the fight against energy poverty but the current guidelines don’t allow this.
the category for the improvement of the energy and environmental performance of buildings only allows a 20% contribution from state aid.
president, commissioner, minister, the right to a healthy environment is a human right and it is high time that the european union and the united nations also enshrined this right in their charters, as so many countries have already done.
for what should be the consequences when our healthy environment is compromised?
it is also important to recognise ecocide, the destruction of a healthy environment and ecosystems, as a crime, so that it can also be prosecuted.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i too would like to commend the decision of the united nations council to recognise access to a healthy and sustainable environment as a universal human right.
we are facing an increasing climate emergency, pervasive toxic pollution, and also a dramatic loss of biodiversity.
air pollution is primarily a result of burning fossil fuels, which also drives climate change.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, we have said that the right to life, the right to health, the right to safety, these rights already guaranteed at european level, are of course partly dependent on the quality of the environment in which we live.
how can we guarantee these rights without first guaranteeing the right to a healthy environment?
i naturally welcome, as has been done here in this house, the united nations resolution proposing to introduce the right to a healthy environment into the universal declaration of human rights.
but i cannot help talking about the international and global issue, because when we talk about the right to the environment, it is also the responsibility of our companies to respect and guarantee it.
and the second question: there is a due diligence initiative that needs to come from the commission which is lagging behind and which would allow us to work on the issue of the right to a healthy environment.
the right to a healthy environment recognises that protection of the environment must be top of the agenda.
underpinning all other rights, the right to a healthy environment is simply fundamental.
a healthy biosphere is vital for achieving the sustainable development goals in social and economic areas.
with the eighth environmental action programme, parliament has backed my calls for this fundamental right of eu citizens to be defended by the highest eu courts.
a healthy environment is vital in this fight because this fight, in fact, is for our very survival.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the glasgow climate conference with a very painful conclusion.
with current climate plans, the temperature will rise by as much as 2.7 degrees, which is a far cry from the 1.5 degrees we promised in paris.
we can and must do better than the climate plans on the table today.
climate marches across europe once again brought thousands of people onto the streets to demand greater ambition.
we need to increase climate aid to developing countries, and we need to get the united states and other major powers on board.
reaching climate neutrality by 2050 means undertaking an enormous challenge, which requires a far-reaching transformation of our economies and societies, not only of our energy sector or industrial one.
we have to act to reach the 2030 target and climate neutrality by 2050. we have to recover from the economic crisis and we have to face energy price hikes at the moment.
it is time to show that the green deal is not only an environmental but also a growth strategy aiming to transform the european union into a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy.
meeting the increased production will require not only enhanced generation of renewable energy but also consolidated public and private investment in infrastructure, building storage capacities and a competitive renewables market.
that’s why it is essential to recognise the role of carbon capture, utilisation and storage (ccus) in our climate mitigation strategy, especially as a solution to carbon emissions from heavy industry, and we have to convince all the other global players to follow our example and act with ambition and determination.
mr president, the last intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) science report shows us the harsh truth.
seeing all the videos of the fires around the globe, it’s time to speak about the climate heating, because it’s only average which can speak about a rise of some degrees and warming.
the united nations brings us around the same table to tackle the challenge that is common for all the people on this planet: climate change, climate heating.
almost 200 countries showed their plans to cut emissions by 2030, but still the report shows increasing emissions from 2010 to 2030. we have to succeed in these negotiations.
all energy will now have to be devoted to mitigating the climate catastrophe.
for example, the funds that many countries intend to spend on the arms race will not be sufficient for the technological revolution that the planet will need to complete the energy transition, a gigantic project requiring the total investment of all, starting with china, the united states, the european union and so on.
we no longer have the right to waste our resources.
that this is where world leaders finally stepped up and made the decisions necessary to deal with the climate crisis?
the result depends entirely on political will, and although this has been lacking most of the time, remember: political will is fortunately a renewable resource.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a reality that cannot be denied.
today, we are also facing an energy crisis, which in turn affects the population of the european union.
the agricultural sector must be seen as a serious partner in the battle against climate change.
or, to be more precise, we are imposing environmental conditions on farmers in the european union for no reason, while in another part of the world, where we import food, things have gotten out of hand.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare our successes in combating climate change today with those of a decade ago, we see progress.
we have a number of demands, such as the elimination of all fossil fuel subsidies, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and increased investment in renewable energy.
according to the international energy agency, we need to triple our investment in clean technologies over the next decade to prevent temperature rises of more than one and a half degrees by 2050. so the un conference is an opportunity for world leaders to make even more ambitious commitments, perhaps including one that involves changing the current neoliberal economic model to one that will be based on criteria such as social justice and people's satisfaction.
in the eu we are working very ambitiously to have more climate protection in agriculture.
while agriculture accounts for about 10% of greenhouse gas emissions here in europe, it accounts for just under 20% globally.
the paris agreement on climate change states that climate change must not jeopardize food production.
we should take this very seriously and put agriculture more in the focus of climate diplomacy.
otherwise we are doing climate protection a disservice.
vice-president silva pereira, commissioner sinkevičius, there are links between the climate crisis and the issue of refugees coming from amongst the most disadvantaged people in the world.
we made a promise to developing countries in copenhagen in 2009 that we would provide them with usd 100 billion of climate finance.
it can also strengthen the practices and the efforts of indigenous people to address and respond to climate change.
women often have a strong body of knowledge and expertise that can be used in climate change mitigation, disaster reduction and adaptation strategies.
nations with greater female representation in positions of power have smaller carbon footprints.
farmers often feel that agriculture is the only sector being targeted, but this report acknowledges that methane emissions in the energy sector are also a huge problem.
but agriculture is still by far and away the biggest source of methane emissions in the eu.
we have also prepared a detailed action plan for the implementation of the green agenda to support energy transition, a circular economy, the reduction of pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, the protection of biodiversity, and sustainable farming and food production.
recent concerning events have shown how deep the divisions run and how much work is still needed to build good and sustainable neighbourly relations.
having said that, i urge both north macedonia and bulgaria to finally resume a constructive dialogue in order to achieve sustainable results.
it brought economic, social and environmental progress to our island.
this philanthropy can help us catalyse a more holistic response to the vast challenges that lie ahead, from climate change to vaccination and social innovation.
many individuals alongside charitable and philanthropic organisations support endeavours from which we all benefit, including improving educational attainment, raising health care standards, advancing scientific development and tackling climate change.
philanthropy can help solve problems that are now more interconnected than ever before, but it could also be more effective if it enjoyed a better operating environment and better protection mechanisms.
they support a wide range of projects in the field of research and innovation, environmental protection, social care, culture and youth democracy, to name just a few.
we also have to accept that we’re in a changing period – global warming, climate change, medical devices, medicines, atomic research, atomic science – that there are key significant areas that are taking us into areas of the unknown.
mr president, any review of the common fisheries policy has to have two words at its heart in terms of its assessment of what we must do into the future: sustainability and fairness.
sustainability of fishing stocks, but also sustainability of fishing coastal communities, and fairness and burden-sharing have to be at the heart of the decisions that we will make between now and the end of next year on how we go about sharing the seas of the european union.
we take a euro, pump it full of steroids and call this a sustainable investment.
mr president, the sharp rise in electricity prices, which is putting enormous pressure on many households and on micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, is inseparable from the choices made by the european union: liberalization and privatisation of the sector, the maintenance of oligopolistic markets, in which prices are cartelled and the methodologies adopted guarantee astronomical profits, and, more recently, the creation and operation of the carbon market, whose derivatives are traded on the stock exchange in a speculative manner.
the need to restore public ownership of the energy sector is due mainly to social, environmental and economic imperatives.
we must abandon the so-called market solutions in tackling climate change, which are clearly perverse and ineffective from the point of view of the environmental objectives they proclaim, as is the case with emissions trading, which the glasgow conference has unfortunately once again endorsed.
if health is the goal, then we need to invest a lot of energy and a lot of money in drug development, and that, unfortunately, is not mentioned in this report.
meanwhile, their activities dump millions of metric tons of co2 into the atmosphere every year, while its data centres cannibalise entire country’s energy budgets and consume our water supplies.
it’s always the same: amazon profits forever and never pays for the social or environmental costs.
all over the world, a growing movement of activists and workers in factories and cargo facilities, oil refineries, warehouses and data centres will strike and demonstrate together, to force amazon to pay for its environmental and social consequences.
scientists tell us, it is essential that the new cap specifies a minimum 10% of agricultural land to be left uncultivated and managed in a way that encourages biodiversity.
and then they would be more open to a dialogue about sustainability and human and social rights.
success in sustainability through the fisheries agreement, and success in health.
our economic freedoms are under pressure, and we're pricing ourselves out of the market with unrealistic climate goals.
the commission is restricting our free trade with ever stricter climate rules and climate taxes and wants to link the un's sustainable development goals to it, a kind of cosmopolitan wish list.
these barriers have little impact on the climate, but they do add costs to our businesses, and those costs are paid by the people back home.
we call on the commission not to become a climate christmas tree of over-regulation and bureaucratic obstacles on the eve of mc12, but to commit itself to the core task: fair and free trade.
instead, for the majority of people, increased trade has meant precarity, a race to the bottom in wages, public services, consumer standards and the environment.
the glasgow climate package is not a game changer in terms of climate commitment.
until now, 105 countries are on board, representing more than 70% of the global economy, committed to a collective goal of reducing global methane emissions, but at least 30% from 2020 levels by 2030. delivering on the pledge will reduce warming by at least 0.2 degrees celsius by 2050, and it is an eu initiative that has been adopted here in this house by a vast majority, and it works.
in this regard, it is important to work intensively for setting global standards for sustainability and for the implementation of the provision of the paris agreement, putting further pressure on reluctant, big global emitters, namely china and russia.
we have also to invest heavily to scale up innovative technologies for expansion and storage for green energy.
they're the ones who are paying for the mistakes of past politicians, but they're also paying for the limitations and the costs of fighting global warming.
mr president, cop26 was meant to be an international red alert call to climate action for all industries and governments to stop funding our very own destruction.
hugely profitable fossil fuel industries that are sending us hurtling towards climate catastrophe continue to receive billions of euros of public funding through subsidies.
25 countries, including 11 member states, pledged at glasgow to stop funding the international fossil fuel energy sector by the end of next year.
the european parliament supports a binding commitment to end all fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 under the key legislation of the eighth environment action programme.
today, i call on eu member states and the eu commission to heed this call and demonstrate a level of real ambition that reflects the urgency of climate action.
to end fossil fuel subsidies, both at home and abroad, support the european parliament’s mandate in the eight environment action programme to phase out all fossil fuel subsidies by 2025. time to listen to science, time to listen to people, time to face up to the evidence.
and should we really be subsidising this and subsidising air pollution in kraków, in cremona, in slavonski brod?
they’d invest in energy storage, demand management with an ambition, a tenacity and a resolve that would put politicians to shame.
furthermore, a total lack of investigation and prosecution for crimes committed by both sides has created a climate of impunity.
in addition to this, there are rising energy costs and a shortage of raw materials, which we in the european union have to import and which mainly enter our ports.
the threat of shortages is real and is expected to continue at least until summer 2022. at the same time, we are working in the european union on a new framework for co2 emissions - the so-called ets - including maritime transport, which will undoubtedly increase the already very high cost of shipping.
the shortage of containers and large vessels, the congestion of ports, the lack of storage, the delays in distribution within countries, the rise in energy prices, the rise in taxes, concentration and alliances in the hands of a few are elements to which the union has to respond.
i do find it interesting that we constantly hear from the shipping industry and from some meps that tackling the climate crisis will negatively impact eu shipping’s competitiveness or be too expensive.
so my question to the shipping companies is, will you be investing the tens of billions of euro of profit into truly clean technologies to save us from the climate emergency?
if we’re serious about the price of carbon, we must take action.
but equally, the issue of fuel, energy, gas and oil.
and at the same time, we demand the immediate and unconditional release of those arbitrarily detained: political leaders, presidential candidates, human rights and environmental defenders and journalists.
we also condemn the increasing criminalisation and persecution of environmental defenders and the continued attacks and acts of aggression against the indigenous people of nicaragua.
in 2020, 12 environmental leaders were killed in nicaragua, making it the most deadly country per capita for environmental defenders.
defending human rights, opposing bad environmental practices, the destruction of indigenous communities, denouncing abuses, pointing out those responsible lead to the harshest repression, aggression and harassment.
when opposition candidates are put in jail, parties and candidates are invalidated, voting is done in a climate of persecution and no respect for human rights, these elections can be called anything but democratic; for example, sham elections, and winning a sham election, for whoever gets to them by controlling all the mechanisms of power, has no merit, has no merit at all.
the imf and the world bank released a report in 2018 stating that, up until that year, nicaragua had a sustained outstanding growth in gdp, improved their social indicators, expanded tourism and provided regional leadership in public safety and sustainable energy and food sovereignty.
secondly, the rising energy prices.
this can range from joint procurement, long-term contracts, a maximum tax rate to ensuring that a package of measures is put in place to ensure that people in europe are not victimized by these enormously rising energy prices.
and so don't complain if energy prices go through the roof, but your energy ministers are criticizing the new targets on renewables and energy efficiency, because they say they are too demanding and so you invoke the usual flexibility.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new tax on energy.
you admit that you're doing everything you can to slow down this ecological transition.
in our sustainable and smart mobility strategy, we are very clear on the importance of transport being available and affordable for all.
in the context of the fit for 55 package the commission has proposed a new social climate fund to address specifically the social impact of the green transition on vulnerable households, micro-enterprises and transport users, arising from the introduction of emission trading in the buildings and road transport sectors.
this is of particular importance to ensure that the transition to a climate-neutral economy is just and leaves no one behind, and to ensure its social acceptance.
it should offer the possibility of facilitating the purchase of zero and low-emission vehicles, or strengthening other sustainable modes of transport, including public transport, active modes of transport or shared mobility solutions, particularly in rural and remote areas.
yesterday, the commission adopted a proposal on a council recommendation to address the social and labour aspects of the climate transition.
the recommendation aims at a fair transition towards climate neutrality to ensure positive employment outcomes and benefits of the green transition, as well as for garnering public support.
reducing emissions is a necessity, too, so ultimately we have to find a balance between these things that we have to apply at the same time and with efficiency.
i believe that measures must ensure mobility and at the same time ensure emissions reductions.
you could also add that exposure to things like air and noise pollution is higher amongst the most marginalised in society – think of the housing estates beside motorways versus the leafy suburbs.
however, i would warn that some are trying to weaponise this issue to fight against crucial environmental measures, and these issues are not mutually exclusive.
more public transport, more cycling, more shared mobility, more rail, means less transport poverty in rural and urban areas, as well as less of an impact on our environment.
these acts are fuelling climate breakdown.
this is doomsday stuff, so i would ask the commission not to succumb to those who portray the environmental discussion as meaning less mobility for people.
in fact, it means more, safer and greener mobility for all, and we need to marry environmental and social justice.
too often, we focus on resolving individual allegations without tracing the root of the problem: the workplace environment in which it arose.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, air pollution is the main environmental threat to human health.
according to the european environment agency, three quarters of europe's urban population breathe polluted air.
according to the european environment agency's report on air quality in europe, in 2021, 97% of the eu urban population is exposed to fine particulate matter levels above the recently updated who guidelines, while 94% is exposed to nitrogen dioxide levels above the who guidelines.
99%, are exposed to ozone levels that exceed who guidelines.
the commission's response therefore confirms the concerns of the environmental associations, but its inaction, and therefore its failure to take immediate action, is unacceptable.
the focus today should therefore not be on whether road traffic restrictions are compatible with the free movement of goods, but on how to find urgent solutions to road traffic which causes emissions which seriously endanger the health of citizens living in these areas.
the motion in question is about greater sustainability.
the commission's failure to react to the austrian government's decisions, which are making it increasingly difficult to provide transport services in the tyrol region and have a negative impact on supply chains and the environment, is a scandal.
at the same time, next year, the obligation to return trucks to their countries of registration every 8 weeks will come into force, which will radically increase emissions.
the commission is aware of this, but it still does nothing to stop this threat to the climate.
austria’s argument that it has introduced a ban to reduce emissions does not really stack up.
these restrictions are simply forcing trucks on longer diversions with a higher carbon footprint.
the protection of the single market should never supersede the interests of the environment, but unilateral natural measures, in this instance, will not solve the problem.