it is right to give space to alternative fuels and to listen to the peripheral cities, but we do not put the protection of the environment at all costs, or worse, profit at all costs, first.
we now have to build up a real european plan on housing, based on sustainability.
these include sustainable development, territorial cohesion and full employment.
madam president, by definition, the respect we owe to nature, the very thing that provides us with our living space, requires us not to waste anything of what it gives us.
as such, it would be a good idea to accept, with some reservations, that 50% of greenhouse gas emissions and 90% of biodiversity loss are the result of extracting and processing the planet's resources.
the first, which is perfectly acceptable, envisages the almost endless recycling of our mineral and particularly energy resources, our plant resources which are nutrients and regulators of co2, and even our animal resources, with due respect for animals.
climate change is clearly being exploited by the proponents of the world energy power.
it is also important that the report stresses that the circular economy must be non-toxic and sustainable.
in january, the european environment agency concluded in a report that increased efficiency and new technologies are not enough to make our economy sustainable.
the environment agency also shows that sustainable growth, as we like to call it, is hardly possible.
the epa's word that the biodiversity, climate and pollution crises are closely linked to economic growth, we can't just ignore.
but apart from this anecdote, there are two problems i see: the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the waste package.
we in the five star movement support this proposal, but we will not accept any downward compromise, and we stress the need to amend the european semester upstream, placing environmental and social development on the same level as macroeconomic governance.
boredom and the inability to vent youthful energy has led to the rise of baby gangs.
the regulation will play a crucial role in mitigating the economic and social impact of the coronavirus pandemic and in improving the sustainability, resilience and preparedness of european economies and societies for the ecological and digital transitions.
economic impact, implementation of the european pillar of social rights, environmental and climate obligations: this is the focus of the recovery and resilience facility.
it is the european union's largest financial instrument to date and will be its contribution to tackling the impact of the pandemic to the fullest, so as to re-launch our economies and make them sustainable and resilient in the future.
this mechanism enables member states to continue to raise funds for reforms and investments in a wide range of sectors: employment, health, tourism, research and innovation, environment and energy, small and medium-sized enterprises and so on.
in the face of the pandemic crisis, we chose to make common debt, to distribute resources in a solidarity way, to base national recovery plans on social cohesion and the challenges of tomorrow: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the environment, climate change, which must be addressed by at least 37% of the resources, digital with at least 20% and attention to the new generations.
it is already a historic achievement in at least three aspects: first, the amount of money it will mobilise; second, the way it will be financed through common debt; and third, the priorities it will have to concentrate on, mainly relating to the climate and the digital transition, but also social cohesion and resilience.
full recovery will require time, energy, commitment and a great sense of responsibility.
as a parliament, over the next years, we will be vigilant to ensure that the commission carries out the tasks assigned in appropriate ways so that the facility reaches its objectives, especially in terms of digital and environmental transformation, social impact and the next generation policies that we have envisaged for the union.
the removal of physical barriers in the workplace and the creation of an accessibility climate, as well as the promotion of flexible solutions and the full use of the potential of new technologies, are also important.
in the face of member states' financial difficulties, this is an excellent opportunity to create, for example, a national instrument for the solvency of small and medium-sized enterprises and national instruments for investing in sustainable infrastructure, research, smes, skills and social sphere.
where is the energy union, the digital union, the health union?
there are more funds, there are more ambitious environmental targets, and there is more national european synergy, thanks to the possibility for other implementing partners to promote projects.
its four windows cover the major objectives that the union has set for the coming years: sustainability, innovation, research, social infrastructure.
that is why we have agreed that at least 30% of the money should be spent on climate change.
i appreciate that it is specifically focused on the recovery of smes, small businesses, digitalisation and a sustainable economy.
private investment is the lever for wealth creation and redistribution, which is why i have to ask myself not how many bonuses i distribute with european money, but how many new jobs i create for girls and boys in the environmental and digital sectors.
the overall objective of the programme is to step up the health response through the provision of funding to member states in order to increase investment in treatment and prevention, by addressing mental illness, which is an indirect cause of sharply increasing pandemic effects, and by creating a resilient and flexible environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu's common fisheries policy must aim to ensure the health of the marine ecosystem, and hence the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources, and also the profitability of the fisheries sector, because fishermen are an integral part of the human ecosystem which we must preserve.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development.
it's a waste of quality.
finally, the package we are about to vote on would only allow us to agree to the introduction of a climate indicator if green investment is excluded from the deficit calculation.
the key to achieving this is to radically change the european semester and all existing governance mechanisms, placing environmental and social objectives on the same level as macroeconomic ones.
the sustainable development goals and the european pillar of social rights have been known for years, but they will move from being mere statements of principle to objectives to be pursued in practice by the member states.
all of this is a necessary prerequisite for creating our sustainable development practices.
this approach is not limited to agriculture, tourism or the environment, but is transversal to all the basic needs of these areas.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the eu own resources reform, on the recommendation of josé manuel fernandes and valérie hayer, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council regulation laying down implementing measures for the european union's own resources system and repealing regulation (eu, euratom) no 608/2014 (10045/2020 - c9-0024/2021 - 2018/0132(app)) (a9-0047/2021) the report of josé manuel fernandes and valérie hayer, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation on the calculation of own resources based on the non-recycled plastic waste as regards the recovery of gross plastic waste, on the method of recovery and on the draft council regulation laying down uniform provisions for the collection, management and use of own resources based on the own resources of the european union (com (2018) 0148 - c0020/013), on the proposal for a council regulation on the calculation of own resources based on the recovery of gross plastic waste, on the method of recovery and on the method of recovery of own resources of the european union (com (2018) 0188 - c03204/08) and on the report of the council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1553/88 (com (2018) 0148-02048) and regulation (eu) no 1553/88-020).
in addition, it is right that there should be a carbon-adjustment mechanism at the borders which invites the exporting countries, the third countries, to respect the environment too.
the own resources we defend protect the future, we must ensure the present, but we must also protect future generations, and our budget for the european union, which is just over 1% of gni, is nonetheless essential for our competitiveness, for the health union, for the digital union, so that we can respect the environment and, at the same time, have a union which is internally solidarity and cohesion and also be able to express and implement our external solidarity.
let me come now to the most notable novelty entering into force in 2021: the new own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste.
it is introducing a novel mechanism to encourage member states to achieve their environmental commitments without prescribing how.
clearly, the ultimate success in reducing the quantity of plastic packaging waste that goes unrecycled depends on the actual increase of virtuous behaviours, using less plastic packaging while sorting and recycling more.
i’m talking about the digital tax and the carbon border levy, to name but a few.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the containment measures adopted so far in the european union to contain covid-19 have demonstrated a clear and precise fact: the reduction in co2 emissions was 7 percent below the forecast, thus contradicting the mainstream environmental narrative.
the sharp reduction in vehicle traffic and economic activity is therefore not matched by a corresponding reduction in air pollution; it is not sensible to block entire sectors of production and the free movement of goods in the name of spasmodic defence of the air and the environment.
we must be more realistic in our analyses and proposals and undertake a thorough review of european policy, taking account of the geographical and climatic characteristics of each territory and focusing on the main anthropogenic sources of air pollution.
it is very important to protect the environment, so: but let's never forget the economy and our states in crisis.
european funds must be used to combat hunger, underdevelopment and climate change; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration.
we must strengthen health systems and we must prepare for the impact of loss of biodiversity.
but it is also the european union's indifference, despite the fact that the assassination took place in one of the areas with the most energy resources needed for the transition which is so dear to this house.
africa is increasingly prey to the neo-colonialist strategies of china, turkey and so on, which are aimed at those energy resources and that control of migration flows with which they can blackmail us in the future.
i am thinking, for example, of promoting employment in green energy, such as solar energy.
this is a good thing, because we are moving from development policies designed only to help, to cooperation between partners who have equal dignity and who must define together responses to strategic issues, such as the challenges posed by the climate crisis, energy policies, employment, the right to mobility, peace.
change means building a different development model from an environmental, economic and social point of view.
moreover, to achieve the desired environmental goals, research will have to be invested, and the money allocated may not be enough.
we have committed ourselves to reaffirming the role of basic income support in the cap and its contribution to the maintenance of farming and livestock production, the reduction of rural exodus and the promotion of a dynamic rural environment.
however, european contributions will now also be required for redundancies due to new reasons, such as changes in the composition of the internal market, automation, digitalisation, the transition to a low-carbon economy and also the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic.
it shall encourage research, development and potential related to space programmes, including security, environment, telecommunications; support european cooperation between businesses and governments and with third countries, provided that they are allies close to european values.
many programmes are essential but are not sustainable by individual countries.
what remains to be supported in parliament's proposal is the free covid tests, so as not to incur further discrimination between those who can afford them and those who cannot, but above all, for our group, for the ecr, what needs to be changed is the name: from "digital green certificate", which falsely and instrumentally resembles environmental protection, to "eu covid-19 certificate".
in these very hours, for example, the work on the nord stream 2 gas pipeline continues to divide europe and to weaken its security and energy independence, rendering sanctions against russia practically useless and giving a strong signal of weakness.
however, russia is a permanent member of the security council, a nuclear power, a neighbour of the union and an important energy and economic partner for many of its members.
joint solutions are needed in the areas of climate and environmental issues, nuclear safety and public health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, safety, environmental sustainability: the need to protect the environment and the environment.
india is investing heavily in renewable energy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
let 's not waste time .
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to pursue programmes to protect nature, biodiversity and the environment, but at the same time i think it is important to try to develop these aims without being subservient to ideology.
the european union has made a political choice: has chosen to allocate at least 30% of its own union spending to climate action.
so, given the amount of eu spending, 30%, at a time of pandemic and economic crisis, you think it should be spent on climate.
of course, as i said, we have a positive attitude towards conservation actions: but this program focuses too much on the climate part, distorting the environmental goals for which it was originally designed.
this is not surprising, since since the green deal the commission has worked more on slogans than on concrete environmental and social policy choices.
we believe that in order to reduce pollution, to promote the transition and to create more jobs, the union's policies should focus on industrial and technological development in the service of employment and the quality of the environment.
climate leadership is not achieved by talk or by documents that are far from reality, and after years of fantasizing about a climate-leading european union, we are now reaching the perfect suicide, handing the future of energy technology to china.
in fact, beijing has set climate neutrality for 2060 with the technology available, and brussels for 2050 without the technology.
my group has tabled amendments to give a role to hydrogen produced with other low-carbon technologies; the amendments have been rejected.
so it's not enough to just issue regulations and directives, terms like "ecological transition" or "resilience".
yes, this is a fashion statement, but it certainly does not solve the environmental and energy challenges and, above all, the problems of the workers.
doesn't seem like fair treatment for the other 23. but above all, despite the stated aim of providing support for the energy transition without leaving anyone behind, it was decided to exclude from the fund companies in difficulty, such as ilva of taranto, the main steelworks in europe, which could have benefited from european funding to convert production to green standards, protecting the jobs of its over 8 000 employees.
in addition, any possibility of financing investments in natural gas, although initially recognised as eligible as a tool and bridge infrastructure to reduce emissions and meet the deadlines set in the transition pathway, has been totally excluded.
in short, those who have been most diligent in switching back to renewable sources will get a few pennies, while those who have kept the coal mines open to date will get billions of euros.
but we note that the distribution of funding from the just transition fund is unfair, because it favours countries which have not yet taken the climate change issue seriously and have continued to produce coal and carbon, to the detriment of the more virtuous countries.
we therefore believe that it will penalize those who, like italy, have made efforts to achieve the energy mix, meeting the objectives and who, unfortunately, will only have a marginal part of these sums.
a less idealistic and more pragmatic approach to the environment is needed, as all the alternatives to achieving the objectives gradually and progressively need to be considered.
in this process, however, the italian government has identified two areas, taranto and sulcis-iglesiente, which are among the most affected by the economic and social effects of the transition due to job losses linked to the production of fossil fuels and the transformation of industrial plants with higher greenhouse gas intensity.
it meets the same criteria and requirements as those laid down by the commission for participation in the investments of the just transition fund, namely the amount of co2 emitted by the industrial sector, the use of fossil fuels and the impact of the energy transition on land use.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 10% of the world's population, the richest part of the planet, is responsible for more than half, 52%, of global emissions.
the european union must take responsibility, including by developing a comprehensive strategy on the impact of the climate crisis, a crisis that must be responded to with increased financial support.
putting people at the centre, involving communities and ensuring that we learn from covid, in particular to build sustainable health systems is fundamental.
i am convinced that the fight against hiv is closely linked to breaking down barriers, including working on legal issues ensuring equitable access of key populations to services and treatments and strengthening the overall health systems, accompanied by an enabling environment for sustainable financial resources, notably domestic.
national recovery and resilience plans negotiated by member states with the european commission must offer a real and sustainable development prospect for european citizens.
the resources made available must ensure the sustainable and digital transformation of european society through concrete mechanisms designed to reduce inequalities and develop opportunities for future generations.
investment in education (for which we initiated the european parliament's request that at least 10% of the gni go to this area), improving access to quality healthcare and developing a resilient economic environment that respects the highest social standards are key priorities.
the majority of them belong to the energy-intensive industries and the health ecosystems.
– madam president, the epp wants european industry to become sustainable in europe.
we strongly support the idea of this ecosystem approach.
it covers six out of the 14 sectors, but that shows it’s still a work in progress and most of these ecosystems are not completed in definition or in description; analysis alone is not enough, so what we want is for each ecosystem to have an integrated strategy setting priorities for the union in terms of funding policies and regulation and we do not want to have a planned economy, but we want that the instruments fit together.
it needs to address the specific needs for competitiveness, sustainability and digitalisation of each ecosystem.
it needs a reference frame to test the systems for each ecosystem.
so in the end, if that doesn’t fit together we don’t have high hopes that climate change and the digitalisation of work is going to work.
i also see a great risk: the eu must proceed with setting ever stricter environmental standards without at the same time giving businesses the tools and resources to invest and defend themselves against the misconduct of our competitors.
we have suggested the possibility of using european funds as a tax credit, we have addressed the question of gas as a transitional energy in our strategy and there is no trace of it!
we have a unique opportunity to strengthen our position in renewable energy technologies in the coming years - keyword hydrogen - and to become the world leader in the production of corona vaccines.
competitive sustainability enabled by new, often digital technologies and services remain our goal.
stay on the track for sustainability, we have made the plans, we are ready for change.
because of the value that will be created in fighting climate change, because of the value that will be created in digitalising, because of the jobs that will be created here in europe, in leveraging that competitiveness that comes from making our strategies come true.
investment in r&d, investment in sustainability, but one thing i think is a given with the impressive amount of money in the multiannual financial framework, with the money that we’re going to borrow – the eur 750 billion – if we double that or triple that it would not be enough.
we need to spend in order to crowd in private investment to really make this a real common effort for europe to be a competitive force, a sustainable competitive force on this planet, and this is of course what we are doing in building the different schemes, crowding in private investment.
with regard to the commission's statement on the revised european industrial strategy, i would like to point out that european industry represents more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors.
however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
the coronavirus pandemic is a challenge to european industry, and to the energy sector, unlike anything seen in decades.
the energy sector is undergoing major transformation, not only due to the epidemic but also due to climate ambitions, and therefore it is essential to develop a coherent vision and policy package.
it is encouraging that the european energy market has been able to cope with the difficulties caused by the coronavirus without disruption or disruption.
the revised strategy appropriately identifies the problems of energy-intensive industries.
therefore, all climate-friendly energy sources, including nuclear energy, are needed in the long term.
the priorities of european industry should also be taken into account when developing the mechanism for adjusting co2 emissions at the border.
providing sustainability advisors is a welcome step, but it is not enough.
european industry accounts for more than 20% of the economy, employs 35 million people and is one of the highest carbon emitting sectors.
however, as regards competences, the strategy remains unclear, and we therefore call for the social implications and dimensions to be strengthened to ensure a sustainable recovery with social justice.
unfortunately, the european union continues to lag behind in its support for these countries and continues to waste time on empty talk and rosy dreams.
local aid can be a sustainable solution.
we all agree that we need to improve and ensure the human rights of migrants in a sustainable way.
let me reiterate that we very much look forward to continuing to work closely with you in the european parliament to ensure coherence and transparency and deliver sustainable results.
i refer in particular to the common challenges we face and the need to cooperate in essential areas of joint interest such as the economy, people-to-people contacts and mobility, public health, climate and counter-terrorism, regional issues and migration management.
the resumption of bilateral talks between greece and turkey is a further encouraging sign, which we hope can contribute to a more stable and secure environment in the eastern mediterranean.
let me highlight the repeated dismissals of the central bank governors and the failure to ratify the paris agreement on climate change.
on high-level dialogues, the commission has offered to focus now on health and climate change, two important and generational issues of concern.
the current eu business taxation environment is not in line with the objectives of the new industrial strategy, with our ambitions for the green and digital transitions.
the work done has enabled us to strengthen the three sections of the programme - culture, media and intersectoral - with important innovations, starting from the fact that the actions to be supported by the new programme will have to be anchored to three cross-cutting priorities: social inclusion, reduction of environmental impact and gender equality.
within the 2021-2027 programme, key themes such as social inclusion, environmental sustainability and the digital transition are central.
but at the same time, we need to have a reliable and secure legislative framework that regulates the impact that ai can have on everyone's rights, from personal data protection to security: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
minister demir wants to make it harder to appeal environmental permits.
i therefore call on the commission to take action against flanders or member states which want to silence their own citizens when they want to protect the environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have always been at the forefront of environmental protection and i work at the international level and, of course, at the local level, so i am pleased with this regulation from this point of view.
this would serve to protect crops from frost and give substance to the sustainability system with the right resources.
however, the goodness of european products is being undermined not only by climate change but also by europe itself, which suggests adding water to wine or putting on the market products that have nothing to do with taste and health, in short, with the mediterranean diet.
a craftsman, a small entrepreneur, objectively struggles to keep up with a regulatory environment that changes day by day.
as far as the climate and the environment are concerned, i realise that they are the most divisive issues in this house.
they are expected to adapt to the green transition, but at the same time they are expected to remain competitive in markets dominated by commercial giants who are not polluting the environment.
this is why europe aims to be attractive for small business start-ups, growth and expansion, by supporting the transition to sustainability and digitalisation, reducing regulatory burdens and improving market access and financing.
however, due to their peculiar characteristics, microenterprises have been the most affected by the 2020-2021 covid-19 crisis and the figures for the decline in turnover, as well as the abandonment or downsizing of planned investments are worrying: the eu commission itself states that it is unlikely that the value added of smes will return to 2019 levels by the end of 2021. a formal update of the "sme strategy for a sustainable and digital europe" presented in march 2020 that takes into account the impact of the covid-19 pandemic and the changed economic and international framework conditions no longer seems to be postponed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's biodiversity strategy for 2030 is a plan to encourage the transition to more sustainable agriculture.
the transition to more sustainable farming systems must not be an obligation but a gradual choice supported by adequate and practical economic support for our farmers.
biodiversity, yes, but with reasonable timing and methods.
in 2020, europe lost 70% of arrivals from abroad, putting 100-120 million jobs at risk, and tourism businesses saw a decline in turnover of over 37% between the summers of 2019 and 2020. we can't waste any more time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, adaptation and mitigation: these are the concepts that should guide future measures to counter the effects of climate change.
making european fisheries and aquaculture more resilient requires a paradigm shift, from looking at the fisheries sector as the sole culprit for the depletion and pollution of the seas to understanding that fishermen and aquaculturists are among the first victims and should be involved in proposing solutions for the basin.
the increase in water temperature and other environmental factors are contributing to phenomena that alter the balance of fish stocks.
this is the only way to increase the environmental, economic and social resilience of all stakeholders and reduce their vulnerability.
the introduction of ever more restrictive measures on fishing, such as those which are worrying the fishermen of the mediterranean, is nothing but a waste of energy, a breeding ground for distrust of the institutions and a source of tension and protest.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2050 is a key date for our future and for our children's future, because by 2050 we must be good enough to zero in on the damage of climate change and go back and fix the mistakes that have been made.
our shipping companies have suffered the abandonment of young people because the sector has been neglected, making things worse from an economic and environmental point of view, as the culture of caring for the sea has been lost.
pollution, illegal fishing and poorly managed shipping did the rest.
saving and rejuvenating the marine environment is the highest form of protection and resilience possible.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the effects of climate change on fishermen, those who have to feed their families in the real world must be looking at this with puzzled eyes.
this economic sector is systematically sacrificed on the altar of the interests of international trade, often under the cover of an ecological hoax.
if adapting the fisheries sector to the demands of climate change means imposing more rules, more regulations, more directives, inspections and policing of all kinds, for us it means no.
(mike's speech begins) ... also to consider the enormous impact that climate change is having on our seas and oceans.
this debate is about how the fishing industry is being hit by climate change and ocean degradation.
the fisheries sector itself is a major contributor to climate change and biodiversity loss.
so the question is not how to protect fisheries against climate change.
the question is: how do we protect the climate from fishing?
madam president, climate change is certainly one of the great challenges facing the fisheries and aquaculture sectors.
for example, the principle of relative stability, which has barely changed since its inception 40 years ago, does not take into account the impact of climate change on the distribution of species.
on the other hand, we must not forget that fishermen, shellfish farmers and the rest of the wider marine industry chain are not the cause of climate change but its victims.
moreover, fisheries and aquaculture are strategic sectors and i would say our allies in the fight against climate change.
it's the animal protein with the lowest carbon footprint and the lowest environmental impact.
as part of the fight against climate change we must encourage the consumption of seafood.
i would like to conclude by warning that climate change should not be used as an excuse to impose more restrictive management measures and further cuts.
the union must promote a level playing field between the fleets of third countries and our fishing sector, which is the most sustainable in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is the greatest threat to the survival of our fisheries sector.
the commission's response is as strong as the commission's response to the preservation of the environment and marine resources.
in this connection, commissioner, how does the commission intend to deal with the possible collapse of our fisheries sector in the face of the challenges posed by climate change?
the european semester must therefore have real social and environmental objectives as well as economic ones, and the stability pact must be dissolved by budgetary constraints that are now outdated by history, otherwise the benefits of the next generation eu will be cancelled as soon as the safeguard clause is deactivated, thus giving us back an austerity europe that the european citizens are no longer willing to accept.
it is worth noting, commissioner, that the implementation of nord stream 2 violates the eu principle of energy solidarity.
in relation to data collection and indicators, the commission intends to develop, at the latest by 2023, new disability indicators, supporting those in the eu social scoreboard and the sustainable development goals.
but, conversely, macroeconomic conditionality has been confirmed from 2023 and very strict climate conditionality has been introduced throughout the programming cycle.
the fear is that the climate neutrality target, which is too close in time, will end up seriously undermining the cohesion action that is central to the treaties.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in favour of a strong commitment to environmental protection, but the climate law is a pseudo-environmentalist advert that risks severely penalising europe.
we are opposed to your propaganda which promotes a model in which man is a threat to the environment and not a resource to protect it.
behind the climate excuse you want to get to the control of lifestyles and the control of thoughts: the happy decline that you're bringing about involves taxes on plastics, taxes on sugar, taxes on fuel, and it affects ordinary people, who ultimately bear the costs.
accused citizens of climate crimes, why?
the policies you have pursued for years have made europe economically weaker than non-european countries, but without any appreciable results in terms of emissions.
this does not mean that pollution does not exist, nor that nothing should be done to reduce it.
madam president, madam minister, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would of course like to congratulate the negotiating team, and in particular the rapporteur, jytte guteland, who has found a good compromise.
parliament was prepared to go further, but with this climate law we will go two and a half times faster in the next decade than in the last decade.
so, yes, of course, we have to vote on this climate bill and i have to say that the position of the green group voting against this climate bill is of major political irresponsibility, because if we all did the same, then this climate bill would not pass and we would be 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions reduction.
but i wanted to say, as frans timmermans reminded us, that this climate law is a start.
and i would like to say solemnly to the european commission: do not make the mistake of extending the carbon market to heating and fuels.
you are living it in germany, it gives a toxic debate for the fight against climate change.
we saw in switzerland, it led to a short majority rejecting the climate law.
mr president, this week we have another hint of what climate science is going to tell us.
the number of tipping points, the number of moments in our climate system that will make climate change irreversible, is getting closer and closer.
and these reports show that we can't negotiate with the climate system.
if we prove, if we promise the world that we are going to achieve the goals of the paris agreement and that we are going to stay well below two degrees with our climate policy, then we must also translate that into a good climate law.
and mr. liese, check the climate action tracker!
over the next ten years, those sectors that can do it will have to go to zero emissions.
and over the next decade, we need to start investing in those sectors that need to innovate now to get to zero emissions in the future.
the climate package will be presented on 14 july.
then we have to see that we go to 100 percent renewable energy.
then we must also ensure that there is an emissions trading system in which we stop giving free allowances.
the greens will fight as always on your side, but for a climate law that actually delivers what we promised in paris.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this climate bill is a goal we all share.
for us conservatives, the preservation of a healthy environment, so that we can pass it on to our children, is even an identifying theme of our political history.
what we cannot share, however, is the ideological pollution which unfortunately ruins some parts of this law.
the heavy impact of accidents risks seriously damaging the european production system, as well as the environment and human rights worldwide.
we all know, but few say, that the european union will not be able to meet the objectives it is setting itself unless it surrenders itself to the chinese communist regime, which holds most of the raw materials needed for the energy and digital transition.
the new programming period 2021-2027 will be able to count on measures that go towards sustainability in all its three pillars.
it has not been easy, but thanks to the constructive work of my group, we have achieved a certain balance between the environmental and the social and economic needs, especially of small operators and small and mediumsized enterprises.
unfortunately, the budget has been reduced, but overall this new feampa represents a first step towards a new paradigm of european policy to really protect our fisheries and aquaculture, all while safeguarding our coastal communities, marine biodiversity and food security.
we have always felt that, precisely as a common policy, fisheries policy must pay close attention to the real conditions of the sector in order to ensure the conservation of resources, help for the small and the generational renewal, and not to support the domination of large industries which have no regard for the physiological needs of a very sensitive environment such as the marine one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european citizens are demanding efficient, fast and sustainable transport.
the investments in digitisation and the strengthening of the corridors from northern europe to southern italy are positive, but we would have liked greater ambition on the decarbonisation of energy networks by closing the door to gas and opening it to renewables.
i also wonder why the european parliament continues to ignore the criticisms of the european court of auditors on the turin-lyon tav project, on the shameful delays, the inflated traffic forecasts and the harmful consequences on the environment.
the financial envelope is also insufficient in relation to the ambitious climate objectives embedded in the cef through the environmental conditionalities, which go alongside what should be the main purpose of these instruments, namely to support the completion of networks and transport safety.
we see how eagerly politicians who played important roles in european chadets and social democracy are to take positions in russian energy companies.
in order not to waste a great opportunity, this instrument must be used consistently, by defining criteria which reduce the discretion and arbitrariness of its application.
the european semester will also have to be reformed by setting environmental and social objectives alongside macroeconomic ones.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eighth environment action programme is the basis for the main objective of the european union's environmental policy, namely to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. to achieve climate neutrality, the text under discussion provides for close monitoring of progress made by individual member states and the rapid and systematic use of infringement procedures against states that do not comply with the commission's roadmap.
our companies, already hard hit by the pandemic and without subsidies, would suffer further economic damage and an inevitable loss of competitiveness compared to countries like china, india, the united states, which do not share the same climate goal.
everyone here said that the value of the private sector's role is important in improving europe's research and innovation capacity, in boosting new innovation and in promoting europe's competitiveness and sustainability.
i think that no single piece of clothing should be allowed in our shops that is made without respect for labour rights and environmental standards.
for this reason, accelerating at this moment on instruments such as the carbon border adjustment mechanism, which i myself support in principle, risks being counterproductive.
the environment is certainly important, but while we are here discussing transition, outside the factories are shut down because of the lack of microchips and construction is halted because the cost of concrete is too high.
we cannot live by rhetoric alone on the ecological transition, we must start again with production in europe because we can no longer limit ourselves to imports.
i would ask the european commission to engage with the united states a little more on this matter because i believe that it will be with them that we will have to find a solution, starting with that nuclear agreement which i do not believe in and which i believe is hardly sustainable any further.
not a word about the co2 emissions in europe over the last 30 years, which have been negated by the emissions trends in the rest of the world.
we in the league are not prejudiced against the green deal but we believe that the energy transition must be made feasible and above all progressive.
the commission should therefore slow down this mad race towards climate neutrality and put green measurement and common sense back at the centre of its policies.
italy has been hit by a series of fires that will cost about a billion euros, in addition to the incalculable impact on the entire ecosystem and on the lives of citizens.
and then we need to make our small and medium-sized enterprises resilient and less vulnerable to climate change, through a path of gradual accompaniment, which does not add burdens and costs to businesses.
the key words are gradualness and adaptation: this is the only way to tackle climate adversity and to enable our businesses to be prepared to respond.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the floods and the scorching heat that have hit europe this summer are yet another proof of the devastating consequences of climate change.
the european union must therefore rise to the challenge, using all the instruments at its disposal to deal with the emergency, refinancing the solidarity fund and developing regional strategies for adaptation to climate change.
europe is too often blinded by its environmental ideology, imposing laws and restrictions which, when taken at face value, serve neither to preserve the environment nor to ensure its sustainability.
in the difficult negotiations we have ensured that the measures adopted are sufficient and appropriate, including the inclusion in the final text of precise environmental protection criteria.
in addition, it is also important for sustainable economic growth and the repayment of borrowed funds that member state governments establish and maintain balanced and competitive tax systems.
one that provides a sound and stable environment for investment and investment that creates jobs for citizens.
such intrusions do not only lead to an interception of communication, which is contrary to the right to privacy and political freedoms, they also create a general climate of fear and distrust.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the un summit on food systems on 23 september is a historic opportunity to lead the recovery from the pandemic and achieve all 17 sustainable development goals (sdgs) by 2030. food systems, production, distribution and consumption are fundamental to achieving sdgs and therefore need to be made healthier, more sustainable and fairer.
the eu must therefore take the lead in the zero hunger goal and impose a rapid transition to sustainable agri-food systems, such as farm to fork, and this question is in the right direction, but europe must also stimulate partner countries and their local farmers, fishermen and producers to switch to sustainable practices, favouring only agreements that prioritise animal welfare, the end of pesticides, respect for human rights and the fight against antibiotic resistance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the goal of zero hunger in the world must be achieved without over-exploiting the environment or lowering the food quality standards that we have developed over time and which we hope will spread globally.
the culprits, of course, are primarily the conflicts that are going on in many of the poorest regions, climate change, that's for sure, and the economic downturn in the poorest parts of the world, and also the covid-19 pandemic, of course.
we therefore strongly urge the commission to take this very disheartening and worrying fact as a starting point, now that we must plan our support for a global transition to fair and sustainable food systems.
i would like to know, commissioner, how the commission intends to reorient its trade policy to support the global transition to sustainable agri-food systems, in line with the 'farm to fork' strategy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the food question is absolutely central to the achievement of all the sustainable development goals.
the way we produce, distribute and consume food inevitably determines what the world of tomorrow will be, its environmental and social sustainability.
this is why it is tragic to see - as ms toia said earlier - that the path to a healthier, more sustainable and equitable global food system is now sorely delayed and that the goals of eliminating hunger by 2030 are far off, in a context where covid has clearly accentuated fragility and inequalities.
there is also - and this is a good thing to remember - a strong connection between human rights, land and sustainable food systems, which puts people who live off the land at the centre and who are trying to defend it from the wild exploitation of resources.
it is true that the loss of biodiversity could cause irreparable environmental, social and economic damage.
we wonder whether we should speed up the approval process for new breeding techniques, to make other species more resilient and help maintain biodiversity.
the joint research centre has studied the impact of the specific objectives of the european biodiversity strategy and has shown that the food needs of the union citizens would become more dependent on imports from third countries, resulting in increased emissions and loss of biodiversity from third countries, all to satisfy european diets.
better protection of pedestrians and cyclists is urgently needed to safely promote more sustainable mobility.
the report aims to underline that the proper implementation of the common fisheries policy should have as its primary objective the achievement of the right balance between economic, environmental and social sustainability.
however, there are other environmental factors underlying the decline of specific fish stocks, as fisheries and their ecosystems are subject to sources of pressure and degradation, such as pollution, climate change, hydrocarbon exploitation, dredging and shipping.
the commission's willingness to set high environmental standards is entirely acceptable and positive, but this should not be at the expense of increasing imports and reducing food production in the european union.
taking environmental data into account alone risks overlooking some very important aspects such as the socioeconomic implications of fishing restrictions.
the conditions for real and effective cooperation and collaboration in the management of fisheries in the mediterranean are clearly established and exist, so as not to make the efforts required of the european union fleets useless, limiting fishing activities and consequently also economic sustainability.
sustainable fisheries means ensuring the sustainability of the entire fisheries sector and the entire production chain, with positive socioeconomic implications.
the sustainability of adoption programmes, which traditionally involve european adoptive families and belarusian children, is compromised.
i also wanted to tell you today that i have already written to the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) inviting the nomination of the board member.
of course, we can't waste any more time.
but we will not be able to overcome these challenges unless we lay the foundations for a more sustainable model of health cooperation that is better prepared for crises.
the covid-19 pandemic has worsened, internationally, and it has also caused a deterioration in the international security environment.
the trust fund for syria has mobilised over eur 2.3 billion since 2014. on top of directly reaching 7.8 million beneficiaries, it will have a sustainable legacy in helping refugees and local hosting communities.
it is paramount that we make the results of the trust funds and the facility sustainable.
we can't waste any more time.
the result is a chaotic news environment, where true news is at risk of losing credibility.
in italy, the increase in gas energy would have an indirect effect on retail lists and would lead to an increase in household expenditure of €768 per year, of which €140 would be for food alone.
the european commission presented last july the fit for 55 climate package, which aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, but does not take into account further price increases linked to carbon dioxide emission allowances.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe 10% of households live in conditions of energy poverty.
we are a long way from the ecological transition envisaged by the european union, which sets unrealistic targets and forgets the issue of energy poverty altogether.
we cannot ask the member states of the european union to give up natural gas and then tie ourselves to the technology and raw materials of third countries such as china, which certainly contributes to global pollution much more than europe.
the first voices against the green transition and against the idea of a european energy market are already being heard.
but the european commission is not doing enough, keeping record high emissions prices in europe.
we need a system of energy stress tests in europe that measures how the economy will respond to different set prices for gas, oil and electricity.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
we should also launch an annual assessment of the european union's energy security, similar to the credit rating of the banking system.
but the short-term protection of people from high, even unaffordable, energy prices is entirely in the hands of the member states.
i would like to emphasize once again that europe will never be energy self-sufficient.
we can produce a lot of sustainable energy, but the demands on households, on mobility, on decarbonization of industry are enormous.
so let's start with a climate diplomacy to north africa for building renewable energy there and producing green hydrogen.
what can we do to prevent energy shortages from driving prices skyrocketing?
but rising energy prices must not be used as an argument for the need for more fossil fuels.
nor must it make our political colleagues shake hands in the transition to renewable energy.
one of our biggest climate challenges for 2030 is to get everything we can to electricity.
that is why we must increase the production of renewable energy today, not tomorrow, so that we do not run out and have to go back to expensive natural gas.
it is also the only way to ensure that the price of green energy becomes more and more competitive and that europeans avoid the big extra bills.
the increase in energy prices today is due to the fact that the supply of fossil gas is lower than the demand.
that is why energy prices are rising, not european climate policy.
that said, we cannot turn a blind eye to the challenges facing parts of europe today, especially those with low incomes and poor access to cheap renewable energy.
we need a big increase in investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency, increased transmission capacity between parts of different countries, but also between the countries of europe.
and we need to invest in energy storage, like hydrogen and batteries.
that's the solution to rising energy prices, not increased reliance on fossil fuels.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in the cost of energy is killing off businesses and households in europe, but this is only the beginning if the environmental question is not cleaned up by the ideological violence of the left.
the race to the dark side of the energy transition risks damaging both economic development and the environment.
while we are debating, russia is playing its game and communist china, which is the country with the highest co2 emissions in the world, is building new coal-fired power stations to resell energy to europe at ever-increasing prices.
and it is still china that has a monopoly on the raw materials for the production of electric batteries for the storage of renewable energy.
the increase in energy prices is in fact the result of europe's foolish policies.
it is the citizens and consumers who are paying for the increase in bills and also the general increase in product prices, as well as the hundreds of thousands of workers, who are obviously considered sacrificial on the altar of the ecological transition.
european companies pay far more for energy than their international competitors, and yet they do absolutely nothing with the countries that pollute the most, such as china and india, with whom they continue to sign trade agreements.
at the same time, of course, allowing china to get their hands on solar energy allows them to have a monopoly on that kind of production.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, the recovery fund is the greatest european political gamble of the last thirty years: it supports the environmental transition, helps young people and businesses in the digital transformation and creates development in the southern territories, which have a huge infrastructure backlog to fill.
it is ideological because, without an adequate analysis of the economic and social impact, it reduces the farmer to a climate watchdog and imposes controls and objectives that are so much 'green big brother', with the risk of favouring extra-european imports, weighing on the producer and, above all, on consumers.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the farm to fork strategy is not only useful but necessary to make european agriculture ever more high-quality and sustainable.
but it is not enough if we do not create rules so that the market and the large distribution system finally favour small and medium-sized producers, who are the very ones who cultivate excellence while protecting the environment.
it is not enough if we continue to have trade agreements with those who do not respect the rules we impose on our producers and therefore give us unfair competition which we incredibly endorse and which contaminates the work done on sustainability and quality.
we need cumulative impact assessments if we are to set binding targets for farmers and safeguard that continuity of food supply, farm sustainability and employment levels.
the ambitious targets on pesticides, fertilisers, biodiversity, organic farming can only be achieved if the baseline is the same for everyone, also considering what farmers in the most virtuous countries, such as italy, have already done.
the biggest challenge we face is our ability to export our sustainability model, by reviewing the import regimes for products from third countries, ensuring reciprocity of environmental, social and health standards to protect the identity and excellence of our european agricultural model.
no ambitious objective can be achieved without a change in the stability and growth pact, which puts social and environmental indicators on an equal footing with economic ones.
we call for more attention to support research and innovation; more funds to protect children from poverty, social exclusion and illiteracy; stronger efforts to tackle the health crisis by promoting the european health union; stronger erasmus+ with more opportunities for education, training and support for the younger generation; more funds for eu-live, to protect the environment and support the green transition; more funds for the covax initiative, to boost vaccination coverage across the globe; and more support for gender equality in all budgetary dimensions.
moreover, new challenges are emerging, such as the sharp rise in energy prices, to which the commission will have to respond, and all of this requires additional resources.
that is why we can only be disappointed by the proposed cuts in the council's programmes for innovation, strategic investment, internal security and the fight against climate change.
of course, we must avoid waste and reduce administrative expenditure by analysing the european budget item by item, but we must ensure that citizens' priorities are adequately funded.
at the beginning of the implementation of the new financial framework, we have two amending budgets for 2021, a customary amending letter for 2022 with a substantial amount of over eur 1 200 000 000. the need to adapt the new financial framework to the new social climate fund initiative and probably a major revision of this newly agreed financial framework, so the implementation of this new financial framework is under new challenges, new needs requiring a serious financial response and flexibility.
we also need to accelerate on eco-energy and get rid of fossil fuels once and for all.
if europe really believes in the green deal, it must help to finance with european resources the efforts of the member states to upgrade the energy performance of their citizens' homes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sudden rise in energy prices, which is also due to the european union's green policies, is holding back the recovery and is likely to have serious repercussions for businesses and citizens.
in the manufacturing sector, the high cost of energy is jeopardizing our newfound competitiveness, while the rise in fuel prices is already affecting many sectors that are the driving forces behind 'made in italy'.
this puts a very ambitious, but certainly unrealistic, energy transition model into question.
europe reflects on these contradictions and pursues its climate goals with less ideology and more pragmatism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the objectives of the un climate change conference is likely to be very similar to the 'bla bla bla' that your idol greta has spoken of.
your actions on the environment are ineffective and costly, and it is not i who say this, nor we, but the european court of auditors, which has criticized you for having spent a mountain of money badly.
in fact, 135 billion has already been spent and would have had no effect on the fight against climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fear is that the next cop will be reduced to the usual costly nothingness, pretending that there has been no pandemic and that the demand for certain energy sources can be generated by law.
a survey published in italy a few days ago showed that 85 per cent of respondents believe that the energy transition is economically viable.
carbon dioxide prices are going up - probably going to exceed 100 euros per tonne - bills will go up, some people will be happy because renewables will finally be cheap, but of course this is a totally crazy philosophy because wages are fixed.
we are in a post-pandemic environment, we cannot choke the recovery with inflation.
we need time and flexibility, we need an energy mix where renewables must, of course, play a central role, but they must also be supported by transitional sources, such as gas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has defined the union's position in view of the cop26 to be held in glasgow in the coming days, emphasising the need to step up the global response to the climate emergency and therefore the need for a just and above all equitable transition.
as the shadow rapporteur for this report in the itre committee, i have worked for a long time to ensure that these differences could be highlighted and taken into account, so that the ecological transition does not represent a net loss for our companies, especially for small and medium-sized companies which - i would like to remind you - are a heritage not only of italy but of the whole of europe.
as long as the left and the right are still equated, right-wing forces are gaining influence, and in a climate of acceptance of their ideology, far-right terrorism is not far away.
as the id group, and we in the league in particular, have proposed a gradual and progressive reduction in emissions, because a sudden cut would harm our small and mediumsized enterprises in the first place and we cannot authorize it or at least endorse it.
we all know that the european union contributes only 5% of total methane emissions and that the emissions released outside the european union to produce and supply fossil gas in the european union are 3-8 times the amount of emissions from within the union.
although the objective of reducing emissions is therefore shared, the resulting problem is not only european.
together with increasing threats to their physical and online safety, legal threats and abusive litigation add to an environment where hostile activity against journalists is growing and can have a serious impact on their willingness and ability to continue their work.
a big thank you to all those who worked so hard on this - the shadow rapporteurs in particular, the finnish presidency, which was very committed here from 2019 onwards, but above all the portuguese presidency, which then brought this to a close with a lot of energy.
you do this to support synthetic and ultra-processed products, the impact of which, by the way, is not even known on human health and the environment.
this waste of money is a slap in the face to the meat industry, brought to its knees by the crisis.
we have been talking about the rise of one or one and a half degrees on the planet for years, and i think was not enough to convince the people about the real issue of climate change.
for many countries in the union, which are heavily dependent on imports, this is a major problem, not least because we are talking about essential elements for the energy and digital transitions.
the energy transition, if not addressed, risks becoming a dead end for the union, as the number of essential raw materials has doubled in the last decade and dependence on third countries seems to have reached a point of no return.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
i mention this because perhaps many people have not understood it, but the consumption of agricultural goods to produce energy in a few years will exceed that for food, with the consequence that food will cost much more and, if for the western world we talk about inflation, for the developing countries the challenge will not be to decarbonize, but to be able to eat.
we will be able to ensure accessible medicines, tackle antimicrobial resistance as a serious threat to public health, respond to unmet medical needs, such as the revision of the orphan medicines regulation, foster competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the european pharmaceutical sector, and the production of high quality, safe and effective medicines, such as generics and biosimilars.
but we must do more for hemp, the plant of the future, and we must above all rely on agriculture as a pillar of the ecological transition and therefore of our future.
national plans and future trade agreements with other economies must ensure that strict ecological standards are met.
member states will have to be able to incorporate the new principles into their national strategic plans, supporting thousands of small farmers, especially young people and women, to innovate and make their production sustainable by guaranteeing their fair income.
it is therefore time to extend the country of origin requirement to all products, to reject misleading labelling schemes such as nutri-score, to ensure a strong external projection of the cap, and to ensure that environmental, health and social standards are reciprocated in trade agreements.
only by combining the local and global dimensions, as well as the three pillars of sustainability, can we truly strengthen the agri-food sector, making it the vanguard of the green and social revolution that the new europe intends to represent.
a report by the court of auditors concludes that the eu's climate spending of €100 billion over the period 2014-2020 has had a very small impact on emissions.
the court of auditors' report says that the number of animals in agriculture must be reduced if we are to reduce emissions.
the modest endorsement of climate and environmental measures is not enough when the measures have proved to be so ineffective.
climate spending under the cap must be directly targeted at measures that actually reduce emissions.
will we be able to cope with the dramatic loss of biodiversity with this cap?
we will not have mandatory environmental measures for all farmers who receive european taxpayers' money.
today, agriculture is a big part of agriculture, and unfortunately, it's part of the climate problem.
we missed an opportunity to make agriculture part of the climate solution, and that's going to come back to bite us in the ass.
we particularly appreciate the balance between environmental protection and agriculture, which has been achieved despite the ideological pressure we have been subjected to.
so to greta thunberg and to those who have bombarded us with e-mails full of insults, asking us to reject the cap, i say this: the quality of the environment is a fad for some, a fad for others, but for farmers it is a matter of life and death.
a healthy environment is the necessary condition for healthy agricultural products, to be able to sell them on the market and to be able to feed one's own families, not a fad.
let me be clear: the protection of the environment is a top priority, but the ecological challenge must be faced with pragmatism and seriousness, not with ideology.
the european race towards climate neutrality, unaccompanied by the race of giants such as russia, china, india and partly also the united states, risks being a burden only for our continent.
europe accounts for only 7% of global emissions.
at the same time, the dramatic rise in energy prices is partly linked to certain green decisions.
the environment must be preserved at all costs, but we must have the foresight to calculate the social and economic consequences of the choices we make.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the environment is not and should not be the exclusive responsibility of the left.
environmental protection can also be a very specific area within this parliament and it can really give us great opportunities.
in glasgow, there was talk of climate change, but in the end reason and realism prevailed over ideology.
the ecological transition, as the term itself suggests, must be a path, not a mere goal to be achieved at the expense of growth and development.
we must abandon the worship of greta thunberg and try to find an agreement on european positions and responsible environmentalism, which combines environmental protection with the right of companies to continue to exist, avoiding new constraints which would obviously lead to their closure.
we must not allow thousands of jobs to be lost, especially at this very difficult time, by favouring ideologies to the detriment of businesses and even families, and by favouring, for example, the chinese economy which does not at least concretely raise the environmental question.
finally, let us remember that we can still starve before we die of pollution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more could and should have been done at this climate conference in glasgow.
today, the consequences of climate change are visible to everyone, including those in our own latitudes, and no one can deny that we are facing an emergency comparable to the pandemic we are already experiencing.
we could have done more, but at the same time we must not forget the results achieved in glasgow, which many before me have already highlighted, such as the gradual phase-out of coal, albeit with non-binding commitments, and the objective of reducing deforestation and reducing methane emissions.
these are achievements that were unimaginable even just two years ago, when trump was still in the white house and he had torn up the paris agreement, and china had not yet communicated its own date for achieving climate neutrality.
europe, as it did in paris, played a leading role in glasgow in bringing the major global players who, more than others, have an impact on global pollution to the table.
and he did it with the credibility of the first to put everything into the green deal, not just as an adaptation tool and a climate change tool, but as a driver for a decarbonized, circular economy that boosts employment and competitiveness.
just as we are facing the biggest european investment plan since the end of the second world war, we must keep the ambition of the new 'fit for 55' package high and put the ecological transition at the heart of the economic recovery, to accelerate the construction of a new development model that is more environmentally sustainable and more socially equitable, in a word, safer for all.
and there is another category of environmentalists, the orphans of communism, who confuse the defense of the environment with the attack on capitalism, liberal economies and western democracies.
it's the only ecological disaster that nobody talks about".
i think of the malaria vaccine, recently approved by the world health organization, which would help fight a disease that caused more than 360,000 deaths globally in 2019. malaria vaccination would be the means to eradicate the disease without causing the environmental damage generated by previous attempts, based on the use of pesticides.
this report on the state of the energy union, on 30 pages, devotes half of it, and i said half, to the problem of prices!
over 91% of global emissions come from outside europe, but here we continue to pay for the polluters too.
secondly, there is little in this report about climate diplomacy.
it is not about being proud of being the best in class on climate, it is about realizing that political decisions on the price of emissions are then passed on to the end consumer, and while philosophy is being made here, people and businesses can no longer pay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, conflicts, environmental disasters, food insecurity, climate change are just some of the causes of at least 238 million people in need of humanitarian assistance today.
the eu must stand as leader for nutrition in all terms – know-how, sustainable and healthy consumption of resources, promotion of european diets such as the mediterranean one – the italian one – as good practices, and also an efficient programme directed at those areas where children don’t have access to food.
no more waste of food.
it will play a central role in mitigating the economic and social impact of the pandemic and delivering a more sustainable and resilient european union, better prepared for the challenges and opportunities of the green and digital transition.
member states have allocated almost 40% of spending in their plans to climate measures and more than 26% to the digital transition, exceeding the agreed targets of 37% and 20% respectively.
the first results: 50% of measures will support the green transition; 29% will support the digital transition; 50% will support smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; 43% will support social and territorial cohesion; 17% health, economic and social resilience; and 11% of measures will support policies for the next generation, including education and skills.
fiscal sustainability is essential.
we need to ensure fiscal sustainability again in the future.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, recovery and resilience plans must serve to modernise economies, to make them more sustainable and resilient, to make the economies of the member states more productive so that we can achieve greater competitiveness and, at the same time, greater territorial, economic and social cohesion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery and resilience facility represents a unique opportunity for states to boost their economies and make a breakthrough in the environment, but the funds must be used to the best of their ability.
i therefore believe it is essential to provide adequate resources to both olaf and the new european public prosecutor's office, so as to ensure controls and investigations to avoid fraud, fictitious splitting of contracts and waste of resources.
arguably, the most important instrument we have is to raise our voice and keep telling their stories, the stories of the countless killed in russia and abroad, those prosecuted and imprisoned, people who simply stood up for their rights, for the environment, for political freedoms or stood as an opposition candidate.