this should be a win-win cooperation based on mutual respect, promoting a sustainable fiscal, economic, social and environmental link.
i believe that the eu-asia connectivity strategy, by promoting high standards and sustainability requirements, can also have a positive impact on china's belt and road initiative.
fifth, the eu should put the defence of democracy at the same priority level as the fight against climate change.
the position of the ukrainian government to prevent the import of electricity from power plants that are built in violation of international requirements and the highest environmental and safety standards is also welcome.
the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, i want to emphasize that we are not against nuclear energy.
safely operated nuclear power plants can provide us with clean and efficient energy.
and i would urge our friends in georgia not to waste this opportunity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important to align agricultural, rural and food policy with the new green agenda, which must not only neutralise the eu's impact on climate but also ensure the well-being of our citizens and achieve greater environmental, economic and social sustainability.
in lithuania and the other baltic countries, farmers who work to the same high standards of climate and environment, food safety and quality and animal welfare are still receiving direct payments well below the european union average.
the g7 summit is a good opportunity for the eu to put democracy on the same level of global priorities as climate change.
we can win the battle against climate change, but also we cannot lose the battle for the global future of democracy, because that would be a global disaster.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we will not be able to achieve our goal of ending hunger in the world by 2030. together we face the problem of climate change.
we must fight climate change, but we cannot do it by reducing food production and raising prices.
making meat unaffordable for many people is not going to solve the climate problem, or worse, the hunger problem.
they provide us with the nutrients our bodies need most, avoid emissions from long delivery routes and help solve the problem of food waste.
every human being, without exception, deserves to live in a healthy environment.
a resolution adopted by the united nations human rights council earlier this month recognizes that the human right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment is essential for the enjoyment of other human rights.
new infectious diseases are spreading and emerging, biodiversity and ecosystems are being lost, climate change is taking place, water and air pollution is not decreasing.
we have a right to a healthy environment not just an expensive phrase.
the european green deal, which was launched at the end of 2019, and the initiatives resulting from it, must and are already becoming real legislation, such as the european climate law.
i believe that collective solutions based on science and evidence will help to ensure the proper and high quality environmental status that is necessary for both human and ecosystem well-being.
in the fight against climate change, the damage methane does is second only to carbon dioxide, and in some ways as a contributor to tropospheric ozone, and also in the context of health problems even more harmful.
innovation and science can not only reduce methane emissions, but also make efficient use of existing ones.
i hope that technological solutions and support for them, the shift from prohibition to incentives and the circular economy will contribute to the overall reduction of methane emissions not only in agriculture but also in other sectors.
in this context, i stress the relevance of fairness to the pressing existential threat to europe and the world posed by climate change and environmental degradation.
the union’s transition to climate neutrality by 2050 must be socially fair and inclusive in pursuit of the united nations sustainable development goals and in line with the european pillar of social rights.
the commission will also closely follow the transposition of the work—life balance directive, set for august 2022. but there can be no gender equality without a safe environment for women to work, go out or simply to live their lives.