we have to add also that the transformation has to be fair and look for more social and environmental justice.
i am not sure the result would be better from any point of view: no digital, no environmental, no climate, no justice, no better governance.
the council and the commission will have to take a decision about whether to split it in two parts – let’s see what the parliament can think about it – or to go together with the whole package, complementing it with what is needed in order to ensure a better protection of the environment.
the last year has reminded us that the european security environment is today more volatile, more unpredictable, more complex and more ambiguous than at any time since the end of the cold war.
we have been fighting for multilateralism – the rules—based order for global solidarity – as the only sustainable way out of the crisis, when others have been pushing to narrow nationalist agendas.
it will require closer cooperation between the eu and the us, at least on three areas: climate change, iran nuclear deal, and regulating big technological platforms, among others.
we cannot expect china to stop being china before engaging with china on challenges such as climate, covid and debt relief.
the eu encourages the kazakh government to create an enabling environment for civil society to flourish, which is in the best interest of the country on its path to reform.
it is important that kazakhstan continues to take steps to foster an enabling environment for civil society, human rights defenders, lawyers, trade unionists and journalists.
the state of the union address we heard was quite a global emphasis: pandemic, climate change, biodiversity, security.
without equal and independent justice for all, justice cannot be sustainable.
the harmfulness of asbestos has been known for many years asbestos is one of the most common carcinogens in the environment.
workers working with asbestos should be protected and waste disposed of properly.
it has a substantial social impact contributing to democratic, sustainable, free and inclusive societies and reflecting and strengthening our european diversity, values, history, freedoms and way of life.
the more young people, not just young people, but highly educated young people, are involved in the process of building a strong and united europe, the stronger, more sustainable and more stable democracy will be in our societies.