in particular, we have seen the creation of many new innovative cultural values in the digital environment, which are already considered today as heritage valuable evidence of our times.
understanding this, it is high time to work on sustainable financing models for the preservation of cultural heritage in order to reduce its dependence on commercial activities.
i hope that the report will strengthen our conviction that every european has the right to live in a quality cultural environment and at the same time the duty to ensure its sustainability.
it costs us money, it creates discomfort, it's waste, it's not economically smart.
today it focuses only on energy, but this is how we achieve half of our european energy saving target.
so these are goods where we have already used natural materials, water and energy to produce them, and that is a piece of shit!
we can grow only if we learn to reduce the use of primary raw materials and introduce new recycling techniques, with a clear measurement of the ecological footprint of products and services, and this is what this report is all about.
electronic waste is a prominent test case here.
despite every effort to dematerialise the production, the amount of electronic waste is growing by 2% a year.
this is not sustainable, and that’s why we call on the commission to implement fully the circular electronics initiative mentioned in the report.
and third, this is our common charger initiative for mobile devices, to make the life of europeans easier and more sustainable.
eu member states will have the unique opportunity both to lead their countries and nations out of depression and to advance their economies in environmental, digital, social and employment terms.
however, it is important to make sure that with this unparalleled financial resource not only the immediate negative effects of the pandemic are mitigated, but more importantly, that countries and their economies emerge from the crisis stronger, more resilient and sustainable.
first, favourable conditions must be created for the development of trustworthy media in the digital environment, so that users have access to quality media content in the first place, and here the european union must invest more in independent media and their digitisation.
ostrovets nuclear power plant, located 50 kilometres from vilnius in lithuania and in proximity to other eu countries, such as poland, latvia and estonia, started generating electricity on 3 november 2020, despite multiple safety concerns remaining, and without evidence of the degree of the implementation of the recommendations by the eu peer review of 2018 and by the international atomic energy agency.
the ostrovets nuclear power plant should not start its operation until it has been demonstrated that it fully complies with the highest international environmental and nuclear safety standards.
in that regard, we would like to stress the importance of effective cooperation with the international atomic energy agency.
finally, we would like to invite the commission to answer the questions submitted by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and keep us informed of all future developments.
but because of time limits and given this evolving situation i want to offer my own and ensreg’s readiness to return to the parliament, either in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) or in plenary, to provide the honourable members with an update when the technical outcome of the peer review mission will be available and on other matters related to the safety of ostrovets and the synchronisation process of the baltic states.
we are convinced that this is a geopolitical project that unites lukashenko with putin, which is demonstrably built right next to the lithuanian capital and 180 kilometers from latvia, which potentially threatens european security, our environment and the health of our citizens.
in the european union, the baltic states are already doing this they have jointly suspended and stopped energy trade with belarus as soon as astravieca was connected to the grid.
unfortunately, astravyets' electricity can still reach the european union market via the russian electricity grid, so europe needs to work on measures to completely eliminate in principle the import of nuclear energy from nuclear power plants in third countries that do not meet the safety levels recognised by the european union, and astravyets would be the first of these.
and the european union must continue the integration of the three baltic states into the european union's electricity grid and common energy grid, which has already begun.
– madam president, the success or failure of the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) cannot be measured in the square kilometres of roads repaired, cubic metres of buildings renovated, or the number of projects packed with the words ‘digital’ or ‘environmental’, as is already done by a number of member state governments.
but of course, adjustment can only be achieved through a sustainable fiscal policy that ensures that public debt remains sustainable.
secondly, we agree that public and private investment needs to be increased, in particular to make the climate neutral and digital transformation a success.
and thirdly, we must make it clear that economic policy must of course contribute to achieving our social and environmental objectives.
it has to keep its macroeconomic core, fiscal discipline, macroeconomic stability and healthy public debt levels, but also address other challenges - social, environmental and technological.
climate policy and economic policies have to be integrated in order to achieve the goals of the european green deal.
good and inclusive education is one of the cornerstones of a healthy democracy and a sustainable investment in the future of society.
indeed, if we are to ensure sustainable and balanced growth, it cannot be as before, when the lion's share of research funding was concentrated in just a few countries.
as a result of the high climate targets, europe's energy policy is about to undergo a transformation of historic proportions.
the green transition can only be achieved through sustainable emission reductions.
their role in the energy and hydrogen system of the future is undeniable.
the labelling of these products undermines climate protection, ignores the specificities of member states and leads to an increase in energy poverty.
so it's important to stop the radical left from turning energy policy into a debate.
madam president, commissioner, a climate neutral economy requires an integrated energy policy that combines different energy sources and makes use of the best available technologies, technologies that are clean, affordable and adapted to the specific needs of each sector.
hydrogen will contribute to decarbonisation, in particular in energy-intensive industrial processes and in long-distance transport modes such as maritime transport or aviation.
climate neutrality, energy security to meet these challenges, we need consistency in our policy definitions and effectiveness in their implementation.
the energy transition cannot be pursued in isolation from the social costs and differences between member states.
this is not only an important contribution of my region to poland's energy transformation, but also an opportunity for new investments and new jobs.
the expectations for both strategies are huge: the european union's energy independence, the move away from fossil fuels and perhaps above all the fight against energy poverty and smog, as well as lower electricity and heat bills in the european union.
i am talking here about the transeuropean energy network or the renewable energy directive, and also about the use of the structural funds or the reconstruction fund.
madam president, this is a very timely discussion on both the energy system integration and clean hydrogen production.
both are important for the eu to reach ambitious climate goals.
digitalisation has a crucial role in energy system integration.
we need digitalised and smart solutions, ai and the ability to use data to optimise energy systems.
there are growing concerns – rightly – that digitalisation actually increases energy demand.
we need concrete tools, both at eu and at national level, to support the market update of renewable or energy systems, but also for hydrogen.
but we can’t afford to exclude available carbon—free solutions if we want to boost hydrogen to replace dirtier energy solutions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us, our generation, to end the age of fossil fuels and achieve climate neutrality.
to achieve this we should invest in hydrogen, which is the real alternative to decarbonise energy-intensive industrial processes, heavy air, sea and road transport and all those sectors where electrification will not be possible.
in this context, transition technologies such as carbon capture, storage and use will play a decisive role, allowing for a rapid increase in hydrogen production and use and contributing to a reduction in co2 emissions in the short term.
madam president, madam commissioner, we are discussing today two reports which are important for the european union: both the hydrogen strategy and the strategy for the integration of the energy system lay out the way forward in the next decade if we are to meet our environmental objectives, but they are also important because they guarantee that european industry, especially smes, will be able to rely on an energy source which facilitates their global competitiveness.
on the other hand, reinforcing the european union's commitment to the electricity interconnection targets of 10% by 2020 and 15% by 2030 is and has been of particular importance, and this is because, without a strengthening of interconnections, some countries, including spain and portugal, would not be able to export their electricity production from renewable sources, and, as a consequence, the consumer would pay a surcharge for absorbing that production: that is why it is welcome to link the volume of renewable production and the progress that cross-border interconnections will and should have.
renewable hydrogen is an important green energy source, but hydrogen will be a very important green energy solution in sectors where direct electrification is not technologically feasible, such as long-haul air traffic or maritime traffic.
this is the path that can be followed to make hydrogen, in 2050, not 2% but 20% of the european union's energy mix.
the demand from these sectors could then also stimulate the development of renewable hydrogen technologies such as photosynthesis, algae and electrolysis with seawater, because currently 95% of the hydrogen used in the european union's industry is derived from fossil fuels, and we urgently need to learn to rely on hydrogen in a safe way by introducing european best practices in the field of hydrogen safety here, and hydrogen needs to become a competitive energy source, and europe needs to maintain its leadership here, first and foremost through research and innovation, always being a solid lead over our competitors.
the european industrial strategy is a necessary structural element underpinning the european union's drive towards climate neutrality and digital transformation.
i have taken a very good note of your comments and of the large support around the draft report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and now tabled for adoption by this house.
however, it cannot be the main indicator to measure societal progress, sustainability and resilience.
now it’s up to us all to make this happen and to ensure that decisions on eu societal progress fully take into account the concerns of european citizens and capture sustainable development in its three dimensions.
also, several of you mentioned targets to phase out fuel and energy subsidies.
the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, july 7, 2021, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, july 8, 2021.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on a new european research and innovation area, tabled by mr cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000031/2021 - b9-0026/21) (2021/2524 ((rsp)).
the context having been set with the communication, the committee on industry, research and energy, which i have the honour to chair, has tabled an oral question with a motion for a resolution, on the matter of which i put forward several aspects for your consideration.
unfortunately, the media ecosystem was already fragile before the pandemic.
the money flows mainly to global, non-european players, who do not properly feed back into the european media ecosystem.
if we want to see the european union as a region of excellence, global competitiveness, creative diversity and sustainability, we need a smart society that is motivated by lifelong learning.
rule of law, social issues, protection of environment, gender equality, these are questions of utmost importance not for this house only, but for every european.
that’s why we need to use eu funds to promote climate and biodiversity mainstreaming, social conditionality or gender budgeting, and track the impact of eu policies on them.
apart from timing, even more worrying is the possible content of the proposal, with messages that issues like externally assigned revenues, borrowing and lending, rule of law conditionality, gender, climate and social mainstreaming may not be included in the proposal.
just some figures from the new budget: an additional eur 86 million for healthcare, eur 35 million for education, eur 47 million for the environment, and it’s a clear message for latvians and all europeans, your healthcare and education systems can always rely on support from the union, but there will never be any money from the eu for pianos or salaries for national ministers.