the focus is now on increasing sustainability, ensuring multimodality and incorporating new technologies.
the transition to smart and sustainable mobility, as well as safe mobility, needs to be supported.
this network must help the transport sector to reduce its emissions while ensuring the mobility of citizens at affordable prices.
inland waterway transport as a sustainable mode of transport deserves a future-proof infrastructure that ensures reliability, quality and continuous navigability.
gains in efficiency will help reducing further co2 emissions and will increase seamless connectivity.
we also need to modernise and adapt our infrastructure to the challenges of the future, so the alternative fuels infrastructure and the transition to smart, sustainable, intermodal, efficient and safe mobility are very important.
the upgrading of networks is also necessary to take account of new market realities, the rise of digital technology, alternative fuel vehicles, and the improvement of our resilience to global warming and its consequences.
commissioner, we hope that the commission's proposal will focus on the core network, that it will be cross-border, that it will focus on good environmental performance and also on smart ten-t. we think this preliminary report is going in the right direction.
my vision is that when that happens, the sustainable option should always be the fastest and cheapest, and if that vision is to become a reality, we have to start with the tracks.
mr president, the eu is only sustainable if it lives up to its expectations, if it can show tangible results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report, which is largely acceptable, particularly because it stresses the need to invest in local and regional rail links, lacks a strong and clear denunciation of the enormous climate and environmental impact of the megaprojects financed by the european union, such as the turin-lyon high-speed rail link.
a mega project certified by the european court of auditors is not only a clear example of mismanagement, where the voice of the citizens has been excluded a priori and hindered, but above all it is a project that will continue to release emissions into the atmosphere until at least 2050 and with heavy impacts on biodiversity.
enough of these contradictions: if we want to be climate neutral by 2050, the commission cannot continue to finance projects that produce greenhouse gases and, moreover, claim that they are compatible with the green deal.
the national recovery plans of the recovery fund need to be complemented with european resources to complete the corridors; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the railway system, in particular on the trans-border sections - i am thinking of italy, i am thinking of the brenner and turin-lyon sections - on the adoption of ertms technology for safe and interoperable rail transport, on alternative fuel infrastructure in all modes of transport to achieve environmental sustainability in practice, but also on the adaptation of the lines to a changing market.
this will mean a 45% reduction in co2 emissions.
in conclusion, it is time to start looking at our ports, not only as transport hubs, but also as digital and energy hubs.
re-joining the paris agreement is a big step forward in its global fight against climate change.
it’s very good news that the paris agreement will be accepted by the us as the framework to fight against climate change.
the second essential pillar is the prosperity we want, which is to improve our living conditions by using climate change as a lever to change the paradigm of our development, our ability to meet the needs of our fellow citizens.
the idea that we must support innovation, strongly support this ambition, climate neutrality by 2050 and the strengthening of the 2030 objectives that we decided on a few weeks ago in the council.
we expect member states to ensure that their fiscal or other policies will not affect the commitment to ensuring a free independent and diverse media ecosystem.
this is for the long—term sustainability and productivity of stocks and for the social, economic and employment benefits of the small-scale sector that depend on those stocks.
the commission is on the side of the fishers, especially on the side of those that comply with the rules and contribute to sustainable fishing.
i want to be very clear that this is, first and foremost, in the interests of all the fishermen and women who, day by day, respect the rules and are those contributing to sustainable fisheries.
but the world has never before been as acutely conscious of fish stocks and sustainability, and the eu never before as ambitious about the protection of our fragile environment.
given the pressure for greater transparency – encouraged by the pandemic – and given the eu’s great climate ambitions, i predict a different result should similar cases arise in the future.
there were numerous inspiring projects, with the overall award going to the teams from the european commission that had worked on the eu initiative to reduce plastic pollution and raise awareness.
to take just one example, the renovation wave will have a big impact on reducing carbon emissions while creating green jobs in local economies.
this requires coherent strategies to strengthen the economic environment for the coming period.
we need to ensure decent working conditions, long—term security, adequate social protection, affordable gender—based opportunities, and a safe working environment, including for persons with disabilities.
to this end, we need a strong social dimension that boosts sustainable growth, cohesion and upward social convergence and promotes socio—economic governance.
the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the production of electricity from renewable sources.
we have laid the foundation for a sustainable securitization label in response to the climate challenge.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
that is why in the coming years the union budget should have a strong social dimension, boosting sustainable growth, cohesion and upward social convergence and promoting economic and social governance.
the budget needs to improve the life prospects of our citizens and our workers, and it needs to address the social and employment-related challenges resulting from the covid-19 pandemic, as well as supporting our workers, businesses and the move towards a more solidarity-based digital, greener and climate-neutral economy.
thirdly, and last but not least, it is important to ensure the environmental impacts of information and communication technologies and their ecological footprint.
it’s also about public procurement, financial supervision, environmental law.
we are the country that put climate change on the world agenda.
it will be essential to make our economies more resilient and to advance science, including in the fields of health, environment and climate change.
with fewer partnerships, we are taking a more strategic approach that encourages greater participation from the public and private sectors to address targeted technological challenges in areas that are essential for all of us: energy, health, biodiversity, food.
we welcome the important role that horizon europe will play in shaping the future of the european union, including as regards the crucial contribution to its competitiveness, modernisation and sustainability.
the eu and uk need each other and we have a lot to gain from cooperation in multiple fields, including fighting climate change and pursuing value—based foreign policy.
that is why the european union must act decisively and swiftly, to ensure that our member states, workers, consumers, citizens, the environment, industries are not negatively impacted.
we don't have time to waste.
last but not least, the small and medium-sized enterprises and their workers who have been so badly affected by the crisis and whose recovery, in a sustainable digital sense, is a key objective on which to focus in the coming months with a look to the future.
we have also emphasized environmental sustainability, we have emphasized vulnerable consumers, we have insisted on a specific objective with its own budget line on market surveillance.
in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on the internal market, my predecessor, nicola danti, who was rapporteur in the last legislature, and the opinion rapporteurs of the committees on industry, agriculture, economic affairs and the environment.
in a context of growing challenges, notably the health crisis, we have seen more than ever the importance of the single market, of preserving our competitiveness and our strategic autonomy in the midst of globalisation or of ecological and digital transitions.
here are a few examples: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of national authorities for the protection of the environment is a welcome step forward.
the single market must be in place; it must adapt to changes in society, in particular digital and ecological changes; it must encourage investment and enable innovation; it must also support smes and attract the best talent and contribute to our overall strategy for recovery and competitiveness.
it creates a healthy business environment and new opportunities for entrepreneurs.
given these changes in our environment, what should the solutions be?
and this is not sustainable.
i support the idea of a green digital certificate and would like to hope that the european commission will be able to establish, by means of its regulation, the list of data required for the certificate and the order in which they are to be provided, and to create an environment which would allow for the mutual recognition of the certificates of the member states.
i also believe that the introduction of the digital europe programme will provide more opportunities to develop breakthrough solutions to address societal challenges such as healthcare and climate change.
mr president, whilst we do our best to fight the pandemic with the vaccine rollout – which is picking up steam, thankfully – we must also look beyond it to a greener, more digital europe that has the ability to remain prosperous and innovative without detriment to the environment.
my country, cyprus, is the island that can be turned into a green island, commissioner, and i proposed this in a proposal that i sent to the european commission, and we can make it a green island because it has comparative advantages, because it can have renewable energy sources and can exploit the potential of the just transition fund.
madam president, mr commissioner, colleagues, a just transition fund that enables all member states to address the social consequences of the decarbonisation of our economy is what we need to avoid the most vulnerable workers and regions paying a proportionate price for the urgent fight against climate change.
the most peripheral areas of our continent, including islands, should be at the centre of the environmental transition.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, under sustainable development goal 3, we have committed ourselves, all of us, to ending aids as a public health threat by 2030. but i am very sad to see it being fulfilled both inside and outside the european union.
first, contrary to what mr meuthen says, our citizens' confidence in the ability of europeans to act together in the face of common challenges: the challenge of the pandemic, of course, but the challenge of the ecological and solidarity transition probably even more so.
we also need efficiency, in other words we are meeting the targets, and i would like to quote what dacian cioloş said, in terms of successfully meeting the targets for a digital transition and socially sustainable investments; efficiency, so that every euro spent is spent with maximum result; finally, the question of legitimacy, and that is what we are dealing with today: to prove that mr meuthen is wrong, this european plan must have a very strong democratic legitimacy, and that is the role of parliament.
in this respect we need a strong role for parliament, one which is not seen as a waste of time, but rather one which is able to give a concrete response to what is needed.
we will certainly jointly improve what is to improve, but we have common principles, purpose and priorities, ensuring the conditions for a swift and sustainable recovery of our common economy.
each national recovery and resilience plan, by developing reforms and facilitating the necessary investments, is designed to make economies and societies stronger and support our countries in the green transition, the digital transition and also the just transition and therefore the set of national recovery and resilience plans will preserve the internal market of the european union, preserve the european social model, allow europe to continue to lead the climate transition and the digital transition.
given that europe’s industrial capability underpins other policy areas such as energy, environment, digital, defence, space, transport, tourism and trade, we, the european parliament and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre committee) in particular, give due attention to the union’s industrial policy and point it as an enabler and a driver for the other sectors to deepen the digital and green transformation of our economy.
given the two major transformations facing our continent's societies - the digital transformation and the move towards the age of sustainability - it is certainly right that we should be looking for ways to accelerate this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the objectives of the treaty.
even the international energy agency is making a very clear report about how the world needs to be climate neutral and it’s saying investment in clean energy needs to more than triple this decade.
these are elements that even an international energy agency is putting forward now.
in addition, in our view, the industrial strategy should create the conditions for the european innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem to be flexible, agile and the less bureaucratic.
europe must invest in digital and climate transition, know-how, skills, and for example deploy own raw materials and boost circularity.
the battery ecosystem is a good example.
but are we able to see the value and opportunities of the european competitive ecosystem?
this must be accompanied by adequate energy efforts, investing in new energy sources such as hydrogen to enable the production system, and in particular those industries considered energy-intensive, to keep pace with climate targets.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for a year for this strategy to be updated and we were expecting a clear vision for the future, concrete measures to achieve those climate objectives which the commission says it is so keen to achieve.
you say that steel should contribute to climate neutrality.
i would have expected a bold choice: we are becoming the leader in green steel production; we are promoting and developing efficient technologies now; we use scrap steel: stop all coal production; we invest and accelerate on green, non-clean hydrogen, and therefore only renewable energy, rejecting dependence on co2 capture and storage.
the strength of these new commission analyses and lessons learned from the covid crisis is to identify the dependence of the european economy on its external environment and to identify the sectors necessary to achieve our strategic objectives.
in my view, a more comprehensive analysis of the state of the post-covid economy is needed, and in this context, an assessment of the feasibility and pace of the dual climate and digital transformation.
we must instead create an attractive environment that encourages innovation and brings innovation to europe.
more specifically, we must accompany the transformation of the productive system, because the digital ecological transition will not be achieved solely by the market but requires a very concrete and very effective strategy by public authorities, which will allow innovation to penetrate, for example, into the production of smes and which will also defend this innovation with intellectual property in all sectors.
and the second challenge: achieving climate neutrality in the industrial sector.
we want our industries to be at the forefront of renewable energy usage, energy efficiency, resource-saving, circular economy and cutting-edge technologies.
the eu's dependence on imported raw materials is the result of many debates on limiting the extraction and processing of natural resources within the union, linked to, among other things, environmental protection, high labour costs or urbanisation.
in addition to strengthening the mechanisms for waste recovery and import controls, should not at least some of these raw materials be sourced in europe?
emissions reduction targets are no doubt important.
we cannot accept a situation in which climate policies lead to employment, increased poverty and the decline of once thriving areas.
madam president, madam commissioner, turning threats into opportunities is a challenging strategic principle, more timely than ever, when we combine the challenges of climate change, the new wave of digitalisation, with the urgently needed competitive transformation of european industry.
the revision of the industrial strategy, enabling the european union to play a relevant role in the energy and digital tradition in the global framework, is a decisive step towards securing the entire value chain of renewable energies and green digitalisation, to generate new knowledge and new professional skills and to develop the infrastructure and elements necessary for the consolidation of new industrial clusters.
the review of the european industrial strategy makes it more powerful and competitive and combines sustainability and development.
we need to support the global export activities of all european companies, if they do not threaten the eu's climate goals, of course, and help others achieve those goals.
so they'd better use our machines, which are much more environmentally and climate-friendly in manufacturing and operation.
we also welcome the fact that we are building recovery on industrial ecosystems and that tourism, a severely affected industry in serious need of recovery, will be given the importance it deserves, through a specific ecosystem.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
artificial intelligence has great potential for society, the single market, the environment, and is found in all areas of our world.
the health emergency also made clear that a regulatory environment that is favourable to innovation and consumers is needed to avoid fragmentation of the digital single market and to remove any unjustified obstacles that still exist in the promotion of artificial intelligence.
it will also reduce energy consumption, helping to meet the objectives of the green deal.
in europe, we need to create the conditions to maintain a healthy business environment while protecting consumers from new threats.
consumers must be the driving force behind the transformation to a digitally sustainable environment.
in the transport sector we are seeing a technological revolution, driven by ai, that can benefit society, leading to lower emissions, cost-efficient operations and safer roads.
new technologies developed by artificial intelligence will also be key to achieving the objectives of the producer-to-consumer and biodiversity strategies, in the interests of producers and consumers, by promoting better production quality, optimising natural resources, ensuring animal welfare, reducing pesticides and fertilisers, and improving product traceability.
of (the president withdrew the floor to the speakers)
climate change is becoming more visible to european farmers.
these climate disasters have had a severe financial impact on farmers, at a time when many of them were already struggling with losses due to the coronavirus crisis.
despite the major efforts under the green deal and the sustainability of agriculture under the cap, the situation does not seem to be changing in the coming years.
the european commission should therefore design the risk management tools to better support farmers in the event of such climate disasters.
the recent commission study on new genetic technologies can lead to a new debate on the role these technologies can play in making crops more resilient to the effects of climate change, such as drought, heat or frost, and thus in protecting farmers from financial disasters.
parliament has always stressed the need to emerge from this crisis stronger and more united by ensuring a just and equitable ecological and digital transition and by building a more equal society, where the most vulnerable among us, who have also been the most affected by the crisis, will not be left behind.
we will continue to work on climate legislation, the digital agenda and the pact on immigration and asylum.
its priorities digitalisation, sustainability and resilience have only gained in importance.
we also look at hydrogen solutions batteries life cycle, carbon capture solutions, device repair and refurbishment and electro-mobility as business opportunities for smes.
a resilient and sme-friendly business environment is important.
the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), which i chair, and the ppe group, which i represent, call for a more ambitious and comprehensive european industrial policy and an sme policy that is easy to implement and that will enable our smes to thrive and scale up where possible.
we should not forget that smes are a key driver of innovation, employment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social cohesion in our societies.
that is why our ombudsmen have a lot of energy and will continue to be committed!
more and more girls are going to school and getting into university, but prejudice, environment and social pressure condition them to not choose these careers.
recently, the commission launched and launched the disability strategy which is ultimately designed to offer more opportunities and a more equal environment to all people with various disabilities.
we greatly appreciate your efforts to create a community of like-minded states, regions and cities for climate action, as well as your leadership in these times of crisis.
thanks to the spotlight initiative, the eu is our most important partner in our commitment to end violence against women and girls by 2030. you have also supported efforts to adopt and implement the most ambitious institutional reforms of the united nations in decades, making our organization more agile and fit for purpose in an ever-changing global environment.
our biggest challenge and greatest opportunity is to use this crisis as a chance to pivot to a greener, fairer and more sustainable world.
the driving theme is prevention in all its aspects: from conflict, climate change and pandemics to poverty and inequality.
on the climate front, the eu has shown the way with the green deal, a commitment to net zero emissions by 2050, a higher 2030 target and just transition plans, also thanks to you, members of the european parliament.
the global coalition for net zero emissions is gaining momentum, and countries representing 70% of the world economy and 65% of global carbon dioxide emissions have now committed to carbon neutrality by 2050. this drive for net zero emissions must become the new normal for everyone, everywhere – every country, company, city and financial institution, including key sectors such as aviation, shipping, industry and agriculture.
all commitments to net zero must be underpinned by clear dates to end fossil fuel subsidies and finance, as well as credible plans to halve emissions by 2030 at the latest.
with many countries on the frontline of the climate crisis, we have a moral imperative and a clear economic case for supporting developing countries to adapt and build resilience to current and future climate impacts, and this requires adequate and predictable financing.
yet adaptation represents a mere 21% of climate-related financial support to developing countries.
i reiterate my call to donors and multilateral development banks to ensure that at least 50% of climate finance is for adaption and resilience.
last year, i launched the call to action for human rights, a comprehensive framework to advance our most important work, from sustainable development to climate action, from protecting fundamental freedoms to gender equality, the preservation of civic space and ensuring that digital technology is a force for good.
and together, build a more sustainable, just and resilient future.
the just transition mechanism is an integral part of our commitment to making europe the world’s first climate-neutral continent, and it’s also our commitment to do this the european way, leaving no one behind.
like the just transition fund this third pillar also excludes fossil-fuel investments, placing climate neutrality efforts at the core of support.
in doing so, we will live up to our commitments both to europe, as the world’s first carbon-neutral continent, and to our regions and citizens so that no one will be left behind.
honourable members of the european parliament, with your crucial vote all pillars of the just transition mechanism will be enforced, demonstrating to eu citizens that the european union climate ambition should not be achieved at the expense of their jobs or at the cost of regional decline.
your vote today paves the way for smooth implementation of the facility and contributes to member states’ plans towards a carbon-neutral europe.
the mechanism under discussion today will boost investment in social housing, smart mobility, circular economy solutions and sustainable waste management.
we must not forget that our goals of cleaner air, plastic-free oceans and respect for biodiversity go hand in hand with a strong focus on the most vulnerable citizens and the most peripheral areas of the european union.
as regard ten-t, you know that we plan to come forward with a package on sustainable mobility in the autumn and that will also focus on the ten-t. the overarching goal of the revision of the ten-t regulation will be to contribute to the european green deal objectives and the realisation of the sustainable mobility strategy.
since there were some worries about the link between cef and the union’s climate objectives, let me say a few words on that.
so again, the cef will contribute at least 60% of its funding to the climate objectives and thus support sustainable and green transition.
in the transport part it is expected that at least 70% of the budget allocated to measures under the cef will contribute to climate objectives, in particular support of the construction and upgrade of railway infrastructure, including its electrification.
also to contribute to the climate objectives we will include synergies with the energy sector.
the support to grid connections in relation to electro mobility and onshore power supply, or the integration of onsite renewable energy generation in the supported projects.
so these are just a few words to convince you that indeed cef and the union’s climate objectives are very much aligned.
as regards the financing from cef energy, since 2014, cef energy has provided almost 65% of its total budget of eur 4.7 billion to electricity and smart grid projects, mirroring the increased focus on the electrification of our energy system.
and in its proposal for a revision of the ten-e regulation, the commission excludes natural gas infrastructure from the scope of ten-e and makes sustainability assessment of all projects mandatory, thus ensuring the full alignment of the ten-e policy with the european green deal objectives and climate neutrality.
therefore, based on the commission proposal and if agreement with the co—legislators will be reached now, gas natural gas infrastructure would receive pci status under the six pci list, which is expected to be adopted in 2023. so these are some of the thoughts we, myself and colleagues, have as regards energy to align our investment with the objectives of our climate pact.
– europe has ambitious plans for its energy and transport markets.
we want to set the pace, achieving our cohesion, digital and environmental objectives.
the cef is one of the strongest tools we have to help us bring europe together, allowing us to achieve unity by ending transport and energy isolation.
as we move forward in a sustainable manner, we must avoid at all costs energy and transport poverty.
research and innovation are crucial to enhancing the union's competitiveness and sustainability and cannot be neglected.
we can increase the long—term resilience of the aviation industry by making firm level of support decisions contingent on environmental improvements.
this will allow the eu to address the issue of sustainability along the whole aviation value chain, including among aircraft manufacturers and airports.
what happened this summer is the latest crystal clear example that we are already behind in our fight against climate change.
there is no doubt about it, we must act now and the environmental measures included in the 'fit for 55' package are setting an ambitious horizon.
in relation to the decisions by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, first we went to rule 71(1), as announced at the opening of the session on monday, 13 september.
i cannot imagine how we could successfully manage the pandemic crisis, climate change and other challenges without the european union.
it was therefore right to propose the continuation of a path of solidarity, a path, to use his happy expression, 'to give soul to the union', by launching the health union, the union for technological leadership in chips and other strategic areas, the union for social and fiscal justice, the union for the sustainability of the planet and the dignity of people, the union for youth, the union for security and common defence, the union for connectivity and fair trade, the union for gender equality and against violence, the union against energy poverty.
the pandemic, deepening inequalities, declining living standards and rising energy prices are making life increasingly difficult for many citizens.
mr president, the destruction of biodiversity and climate change are real challenges we are facing every day.
the majority of biodiversity loss is occurring in developing third countries and this is also having a direct impact on biodiversity in our member states, especially also where bird migration is concerned.
it is therefore pointless for the european commission to continue to restrict only sustainable hunting and fishing practices in our member states and then ignore the slaughter going on in our neighbouring third countries.
the destruction of biodiversity and ecosystems is also holding us back from making progress towards the ambitious sdg targets.
there is therefore a need to address the real cause of biodiversity loss and redouble our work in these areas.
there also needs to be a holistic plan where due diligence is involved in the conservation and sustainable use of resources of the rehabilitation of our ecosystems.
losing biodiversity will mean losing an important ally in the fight against climate change and in the challenge to eradicate poverty once and for all.
moreover, access to public transport, physical, sensory and cognitive accessibility of the built environment, goods, services and programmes, use of sign languages and all other means and types of accessible communication and information, financing of – and equal access to – education and also vocational training, access to the labour market, access to personal assistance schemes, community inclusion, equality in opportunity and treatment in employment and also in other occupations.
in the received petitions, the petitioners raise issues of obstacles that persons with disabilities face in various fields, such as access to public transport, the built environment, use of sign languages, financing of – and access to – education and also vocational training.
78% of european citizens and 86% of maltese citizens consider climate change to be a very serious problem.
however, we cannot take the strong public consensus to achieve climate neutrality as a mandate to settle our heads.
those in social housing, rural and island communities, our small businesses, to name just a few examples, need us to make our continent carbon neutral.
it is true that a sharp increase in energy prices is caused by several factors, including our dependence on suppliers from outside the european union.
a budget to boost sustainable growth, social cohesion and convergence while combating poverty, including child poverty, social exclusion and inequalities.
madam president, the un human rights council has been mentioned here and it made a very important statement recently, recognising that the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment is a human right.
we all know that there’s a very strong correlation between environment and human health.
emissions from the vehicles we drive, particulate matter in our air, pollutants in our drinking water, pollutants in our soil, hazardous chemicals, noise, all have an effect on our health, the health of our citizens.
climate change, heatwaves, floods, changes in the distribution of our airborne diseases and how they are distributed have an effect on our health, and some of our citizens are more vulnerable than others, as we know – the elderly, young people and those with underlying conditions.
the aarhus convention recently was another very positive step – and we agreed it in this parliament – for allowing individuals and ngos the right to information on their environment and importantly, the right of access to courts.
science will provide us with the solutions on how to solve the effect that human activities are having on our environment.
– madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for raising this really important issue and having this debate this evening, because we do need to look at the connection and the right to a healthy environment of citizens, not just of europe, but globally.
i mentioned earlier, in my opening remarks, that the european commission will continue to play a proactive role on this important topic and, importantly, to engage internationally to promote the recognition of the right to a healthy environment and to ensure its implementation on the ground.
addressing climate change and biodiversity loss, protecting and preserving the planet from pollution and resource depletion is simply not an option but an imperative responsibility for which we, as leaders, decision—makers and legal professionals, will be held accountable by this generation and future generations.
today we heard that both the council and the european commission are working together to promote a healthy environment.
i can assure you that the presidency will continue to make a strong commitment to the eu to continue to do everything in its power to preserve biodiversity, starting now with the agreement at cop15 in 2022 on an ambitious and transformative new global framework for biodiversity beyond 2020. the eu will also actively participate in the debate on human rights and climate change and environmental issues, to ensure that it takes a visible lead on these issues, and also by making this very activity visible to other international actors of the european union.
although all member states are committed to protecting their citizens from water and soil pollution, in practice this is unfortunately often not the case.
take croatia, for example, which, despite official warnings from the european commission that waste management in the area of biljan donji is not being done in a way that protects human health and the environment, is doing nothing.
nor are the residents of long war, near omiš, who have been asking the ministry of environmental protection and energy for years to clean up the carcinogenic waste from the former dalmatian iron ore factory.
the fact that the united nations human rights council recently declared access to a healthy environment to be a fundamental human right also shows that the right of humans to live in a healthy environment is a matter of recognized importance.
we are witnessing a transformation in society that increasingly recognises the direct link between the need to protect biodiversity, reduce the harmful impact of climate change and address environmental pollution, and protect human health and relieve the burden on health systems.
– sustainable development, in its three dimensions (social, economic and environmental), and protection of the environment, including ecosystems, contribute to and promote human well-being and the enjoyment of human rights, including the rights to life, to comply with the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, to an adequate standard of living, to adequate food, to housing, to safe drinking water and sanitation and to participation in cultural life, for present and future generations.
romania, have recognised some form of a right to a healthy environment in, inter alia, international agreements or their national constitutions, legislation or policies.
in order to promote the synergy between the un and eu human rights charters, based on the recently adopted hrc resolution and to implement the social pillar of the european green deal, i deeply encourage the states to continue to share good practices in fulfilling human rights obligations relating to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment, by exchanging knowledge and ideas, based on an integrated and multisectoral approach, respecting other human rights obligations, including those related to gender equality.
the next item is the report by mrs maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of joint undertakings under the horizon europe framework programme (com (2021) 0087 c9-0166/2021 2021/0048 nle)) (a9-0246/2021).
many examples, from a new generation of commercial aircraft with reduced co2 emissions to innovative medicines, a more efficient management of raw materials, of our natural resources, not forgetting, of course, the decisive digitisation and the entire area of production in the digital sector.
the partnerships will address the most challenging issues of our time: climate change, clean energy, environmentally friendly transport, digitalisation, innovation in health.
but only by working together can we respond to the profound economic and social transformation underway, move towards sustainability, increase resilience and support the recovery of key sectors, all of which benefit the citizens of the union.
the new partnerships aim to bring together talent to accelerate the commercial deployment of new solutions, in particular those that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, as well as to fully unlock europe's digital potential.
let me give you a few examples: your call for gender balance and equality between men and women has inspired this regulation and will hopefully provide a solid foundation for the partnership working environment.
the partnership will allow for increased collaboration in joint research projects between the national metrology institutes of all member states and the other participating countries, between industrial and medical organisations or between universities, in specific areas such as industry, energy, environment and health.
i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs carvalho, the non-attached rapporteurs from all the political groups and their teams, the committee on industry, research and energy and of course my team for the excellent cooperation and preparation of this decision.
a more balanced environment in research and development is one of the commission's objectives and you know my personal commitment to this objective.
let us think for example of monitoring co2 emissions and air pollution in general, health diagnostics and even smart networks.
it shows on the one hand that we as the european union are on the right track in terms of energy supply, in terms of replacing fossil fuels with new ones, and that we have so far made a successful path in terms of decarbonisation.
but it also shows that we are still 1.8 percent off the linear target path to achieve the 2030 energy efficiency target.
this is all the more important when 31 million people in energy poverty cannot let us rest.
mr president, the scenario europe is experiencing this year, with rising energy prices and a still somewhat high dependence on third countries, shows us that we still have a long way to go to achieve the objectives of the energy union.
the continued use of renewable sources also confirms that the future is moving forward and that research and innovation in clean technologies is crucial if we are to see renewable sources become more widely used and affordable.
the success of all dimensions of the energy union will continue to contribute to building a cleaner europe that should also be friendly to both consumers and businesses.
big tech giants such as apple, google and amazon have not only become unavoidable trading partners, but they have dictated the rules for too long, creating an environment that can tip off the market, distort competition and also harm our consumers.
we want to be carbon neutral by 2050. we do not want to do this on the backs of people who need their cars to make a living.
let us recognize that tackling transport poverty must be brought into the public agenda with the same energy with which we talk about energy poverty, and let us work to make this a priority commitment of our social model.
we should also take into account the public perception of the proposed solutions and the energy transition process, which may reduce or already reduce trust in these regulations, as they may result in additional financial burdens for households.
if we want to move to a low-carbon economy, to achieve climate neutrality, we must remember that this cannot be done at the expense of the people of the european union alone.
we must be realistic, we must ensure that the poor and vulnerable are not the ones paying the highest price in the environmental transition.