sustainable management based on maximum sustainable yield (msy) is beginning to bear fruit, especially in the north sea.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
i especially welcome the equal treatment of breaches of market access and sustainable proficiency.
developing enforcement capabilities for trade and sustainable development—related provisions in our fta is the crucial next step.
i strongly urge the commission to come up with a proposal for an effective trade and sustainable development enforcement regulation, including an active role for parliamentary oversight.
but having said that, i do hope that the biden administration will join us in our ambitions and will join forces to promote multilateralism, rule-based trade, provide security and fight climate change.
we can fight climate change, create jobs and tackle energy poverty through housing renovation.
we are living through a health crisis; we have an economic and social crisis unfolding; there is a climate emergency.
bad indoor quality, damp housing, mouldiness – all have an important influence on respiratory diseases like covid, so we can improve people’s health through renovation, and on top of that we can get millions of people out of energy poverty.
madam president, the circular economy action plan has the potential to boost our economy, create new jobs and decrease our carbon footprint significantly.
- the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/0169 (cns)) (rapporteur: mr de gucht).
– mr president, the carbon border adjustment mechanism is an important mechanism within the european green deal.
moreover, the carbon border adjustment mechanism sends a clear message to producers outside the eu: if you want your products to enter the eu market, you need to embrace our standards.
this will have a significant effect on global co2 emissions.
the main objective of this mechanism is to decrease global co2 emissions and the fundamentals of this report are fair.
with the introduction of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, we have to reassess the free allowances within the emissions trading system.
therefore we, as socialists and democrats, support a gradual, yet rapid, phasing-out of the free allowances when the carbon border adjustment mechanism is installed.
we have reached a balanced text on this in the negotiations and we note that the june package, the ‘fit for 55’ package, is coming with a lot of climate legislation.
it is clear that some groups still have to decide if they want to be on the right side of history when it comes to battling climate change.
mr president, the conversion of the electoral programmes in the netherlands shows that the two parties which call themselves the greenest and most sustainable are deteriorating the competitive position of industry and production will be moved abroad.
it's not good for the climate.
yes, we want the cleanest and most sustainable industry in europe.
that's why this border carbon tax, if we implement it properly, is a great idea combined with smart industrial policy.
only then will we keep the jobs of the future in europe, ensure that we are not becoming dependent on others and actually do something about the climate.
we live in a world in which businesses so inclined can still shift their adverse social and environmental impacts to the most vulnerable people and places on the planet.
that law requires of companies their best efforts to identify and address adverse impacts on human rights, the environment and governance, and this in their entire value chain, inside and outside the union.
and for the environment, we are taking a step that is very long overdue.
i am convinced that this report, if adopted, can be a first joint step towards a european gold standard for sustainable, responsible business.
we need to increase humanitarian aid in the kurdish region, including idlib, too, but we also need a sustainable solution.
journalists describe an extremely hostile environment and fear.
climate change, the covid-19 crisis, financial instability are just a few of these problems.
the european union must turn its attention to these areas if we are to reverse the trend and build stable and sustainable communities.
only with their help can we give villages the sustainability they need.
rural areas and farmers play a vital role in protecting the environment and biodiversity.
the european union must protect farmers so that they can contribute to combating climate change, managing natural resources sustainably and preserving landscapes across europe.
i'll support as much as i can... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, it is a fine example of hypocrisy to debate this oral question on a long-term vision of rural areas, for we are not exaggerating in the face of the greatest and most genuine ecological disaster in europe, namely rural desertification, which in less than 60 years has reversed a slow process of over 20 000 years, that of territorial conquest and exploitation by nomads who gradually settled down.
the consumer, the environment and animal welfare are worse off.
with this report, i propose a concrete roadmap to limit emissions from a sector which transports no less than 90% of the goods we consume, and it is not just customs that we pay for these goods, since, in addition to using heavy fuel oil, this activity accounts for 13% of all emissions from the transport sector in europe.
given the risks to both climate change and our health, it was urgent to include the maritime sector in the green deal.
i would like to say that we have won some good battles on this issue: the implementation of a strategy on zero-emission ports at berth, finally a gradual exit of heavy fuel oil, finally the creation of a zone with controlled emissions in the mediterranean, or european funding for sustainable solutions for a new industry, such as green hydrogen, ammonia, green electricity or propulsion systems, especially sailboats.
but these advances will be worthless if this parliament remains silent on the question of the energy transition.
financing this dependence is delaying the switch to more sustainable energy sources and, in the face of the health and environmental emergency, we cannot afford to do so.
we have a golden opportunity: europe has the means to really drive an ecological and energy transition covering the entire life cycle of these ships, from their design to dismantling.
on climate, we welcomed america's return to the paris agreement.
look at how we have influenced other strong nations to be more ambitious on climate.
three years ago in sibiu, only seven prime ministers asked for climate neutrality by 2050 and now carbon pricing has become a topical debate well beyond the european union's borders.
by bringing these pillars together, we are creating an environment in which innovative products and services can be developed, new start-ups can emerge and a new generation of entrepreneurs can be trained.
we shouldn’t retrain workers to work in energy intensive and fossil—fuel based industries and that is why i am happy that the support package the workers will receive will include training on the skills needed in a climate—neutral, resource—efficient economy.
this deal is not in line with what is necessary to promote sustainable transport, and that is why i call on all colleagues to support the amendments proposed by the greens, reject this deal and reopen negotiations.
both the energy system integration and the hydrogen strategy will play an important role in our plan to become climate-neutral by 2050, and i’m very happy that we choose green hydrogen as the future for europe.
with this plan, we need to stimulate our heavy industry to invest in the most sustainable technologies.
this transition will not be easy but, if we work together, we will preserve and create new sustainable jobs.
the solution is clear: we need to invest in new, clean energy production and with it in new jobs.
it is therefore essential to invest in the people who are working in the energy sector today, and in particular in upskilling, retraining and mentoring these people to prepare them for the jobs of the future.
we currently put all our energy into the internal dimension of migration.
every euro that ends up in the pockets of oligarchs is not being spent on solving our shared european challenges such as battling the climate crisis, tackling social inequality and investing in recovery from the pandemic.
and it's good that we're talking today about sustainability and the digitization of these companies.
the biodiversity crisis is one of several big crises we have to solve in the coming years next to the climate crisis, and they, of course, are heavily interlinked.
even though the effects of the biodiversity crisis are not always directly noticed by human beings – for example, the extinction of certain species or the effects on microorganisms – these changes often have big consequences.
biodiversity is more than counting trees.
biodiversity loss will directly affect our way of life.
lockdowns have also put a number of insect—harming practices on hold, creating a friendlier world for bees and butterflies: insects that are essential for our ecosystem.
so i suggest we, as a parliament, do the same and send a strong message for biodiversity today.
president, commissioner, when you talk about biodiversity you are talking about god's creation, for which we all have a responsibility.
secondly, because studies by the usda show that the biodiversity strategy, together with the farm to fork strategy, leads to a significant reduction in food production and higher consumer prices.
the practice shows that sustainable fishing and land-based farming can indeed go together.
the council continues, unfortunately, to ignore the climate emergency and once again fell far short of agreeing anything close to the scale of action needed to protect our climate.
it is ironic that the council is welcoming the united states’ commitment to the paris agreement and urges increased global action, while at the same time is stepping on the brake on climate targets and on concrete measures.
i’m sure there were a lot of preoccupations; i’m sure not many of them were about the climate emergency.
going into the cop26 in glasgow, if the eu is to have any credibility and leverage to demand more climate action globally, the level of commitment from the eu side needs to be significantly stepped up.
the progress of the european covid-19 digital certificate, the measures to increase global production of vaccines and accelerate their sharing in solidarity with the countries most in need, the increased commitment to combat climate change, the response to the unspeakable hostile action of belarus and the reaffirmation of the defining principles of the relationship with russia.
president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, at the meeting of heads of government, the european council, climate change was again on the agenda.
the eu wants to be climate neutral by 2050. i wonder how that works, talking behind closed doors about policies where all logic is lacking.
it is closing all nuclear power stations in its country and switching to brown coal, whereas nuclear energy is co2-neutral and does not cause air pollution.
the conference also shake hands with the public about the large-scale burning of forests in biomass power stations, which the eu's climate book says is sustainable.
we want to help them to switch to more sustainable and humane systems.
this will enable us to continue to invest in innovation, the strength of regional economies, crossborder cooperation and sustainable economic growth in regions lagging behind in the years ahead.
mr president, when i became a member of parliament, many colleagues were reluctant to commit to a 55% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. i had set myself the goal of working on legislation that would enshrine our european climate objective and thus form the cornerstone of the european green deal.
i think that's really an achievement, an achievement that also comes from the vision presented in the european green deal, where we approach climate change not as a threat, but as an opportunity.
the fact that we're turning our ambitions into a climate bill is a fantastic start.
this law provides a sufficient basis to comply with the paris agreement with confidence and inspire the world at the upcoming climate conference to follow our example.
that's how we're going to have a carbon budget.
it's important to realize that this climate bill is not the end, but the beginning.
how are we going to reduce our emissions?
how can we be more efficient in our use of energy?
the climate bill is the capstone to which all this legislation is hanging.
ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to be committed to the climate, and that starts today with supporting this climate law.
hydrogen - especially hydrogen from renewable energy sources - can play a very, very important role in this.
we need to develop renewable energy sources, as we expect the commission to do in the red iii directive.
that means that in these proposals, in this fit-for-55 package, the climate law must also be made concrete in the end.
if the development of renewable energy is the key to the transformation of our industrial society, then i believe that these development goals must be formulated with commitment.
(the president cut the speaker off)
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a major threat.
it's affecting our environment.
i am therefore in favour of having a climate law at european level.
we also prevent companies from moving to other countries to avoid the strict dutch climate regulations.
it's going to cost jobs and it's not going to solve the climate problem.
we also need to make sure that the climate measures are carried out by the people at home.
it is important that climate policy is effective and remains affordable.
president, commissioner, secretary of state, colleagues, the drumroll with which the european climate law is defended here is completely misplaced.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
policy including eu climate policy should be the subject of a permanent debate.
and that is why i am voting against this eu climate law.
we now have a climate law, we can use our eu digital covid certificate when we cross borders and we are working towards a real eu agency for asylum.
we simply cannot waste time.
dear prime minister, i urge you to make the european green deal and the fit for climate package, as they say in german ‘chefsache’.
this package will assure that we significantly decrease our carbon footprint and show the world we have realistic plans that can inspire us all.
we need to transform our industry, making it the most sustainable and most competitive in the world.
i was a member of the council, a member of the european parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national council, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a national parliament, a member of the national parliament, a national parliament, a national assembly, a national parliament, a parliament, a member of the national parliament, a parliament, a parliament, a national assembly, a parliament, a member of a parliament, a parliament, a parliament, a member of a parliament, a national assembly, a parliament, a member of a parliament, a the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment by regulating the use of certain substances in the production of certain foodstuffs.
on migration, where we have made disappointingly little progress, let’s finally put our joint weight behind a durable and sustainable migration system.
finally, strengthening the eu’s resilience, particularly against hybrid threats, and diversifying our energy supply should feature high on our agenda.
once again, this resolution puts the commission's biodiversity strategy on the table and zooms in on european waters, while we all know that no impact assessments have yet been carried out and it is therefore very premature to take objectives from the biodiversity strategy as a starting point for both the european union's own policy and the approach in international waters.
if the eu is to be a world leader, let us set realistic and well-founded targets, including at the conference on biodiversity in kunming later this year.
marine protected areas can play a role in protecting biodiversity, but they should not become an end in themselves.
this cannot be a sustainable economic or business model, and that has to be clear.
under specific conditions the fund can also support investments in low—impact fishing techniques, safety on board and energy efficiency.
the inland waterway sector is on the verge of some major changes driven by sustainability and digitalisation.
one thing became clear to me very quickly and it stands as a pillar above water: this sector is full of motivation and energy to innovate.
in addition, a very realistic roadmap for the sustainability of our fleet and our ports is being drawn up, offering multiple options for alternative fuels and taking into account the different types of vessels.
this challenge of the energy transition is perhaps the biggest gap, as the sector is made up of small family businesses, self-employed people and smes, and these are the hardworking entrepreneurs who are literally and figuratively sailing on their pension.
i would therefore ask you to vote in favour of this report and not to waste the energy which is currently flowing through the sector to green, improve and renew.
with this report, parliament has given us a tool to build the inland waterway of tomorrow and to prepare the sector for a sustainable and even more efficient future.
it builds on the december 2019 recommendations of the naiades expert group and shares the objectives laid out in our smart and sustainable mobility strategy.
the naiades iii action plan focuses on two core objectives: shifting more freight transport to inland waterways and setting the sector on an irreversible path to zero emissions.
i am pleased to see that our reports are aligned on objectives, but also on many of the proposed measures – from supporting the development of multimodal nodes and interoperable data platforms, to accelerating the rollout of sustainable alternative fuels, and alternative propulsion systems for vessels, but also on the need to better mobilise and combine existing eu and national financing instruments, as well as other private and public investments, to support the many smaller private vessel operators in the sector to access financial support for the transition to a zero—emission fleet.
eu actions will result in fewer barriers, better cross—border traffic and wider eu digital and environmental harmonisation, and this will then clear the way for inland navigation to claim a larger share of travelling individuals and goods.
maximising the potential of inland waterway transport and meeting the core objectives set out in the naiades action plan will require an integrated approach and a basket of measures incorporating transport, environmental, digital skills, energy and fiscal policies, backed up with financial incentives.
it is one of the most environmentally friendly modes of transport, with very low emissions and low energy consumption.
this is what we wish to do with our revised strategy of the outermost, to consider and discuss how we can be more relevant and supportive in the areas of social matters, health, education, training, but also taking a fresh look at agriculture and fisheries and energy transition, thinking anew about the role of administration.
the commission welcomes the focus of your report on investing in training and job creation, on generating opportunities for young people and on promoting a sustainable green and digital transition.
we also endorse your position on the need to protect biodiversity and on the need to promote the circular economy and renewable energy while still supporting traditional sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, tourism and culture.
we look forward to working with the parliament as we shape together the new strategic approach and lay foundations for a sustainable long-term recovery.
i believe the future holds many opportunities for the outermost regions, from renewable energy to sustainable tourism, to the blue economy.
finally, all atlantic regions are also very much affected by the climate crisis.
not enough for sustainable fishing.
insufficient for ports, for the blue economy and for climate objectives.
the report in fact addresses a very important issue – the atlantic action plan – in response to, and trying to achieve completion of, the ideas and suggestions that were already present in the july 2020 report from the commission for a sustainable, resilient and competitive blue economy in the european union’s atlantic area covering this atlantic facet, with the friends ireland, portugal and spain.
pillar three deals with marine renewable energy development, coordinated by spain.
pillar four focuses on a healthy ocean and resilient coasts, addressing also marine pollution, coordinated by france.
the commission will also fully support further flagship projects in the atlantic area – for example, on marine renewable energy, in line with the work programme of the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund.
i would like to highlight as important points of improvement to the original text the importance of adding a stronger social component, which creates more opportunities for the creation of fair and sustainable employment, for training and education, with a focus on young people, for the need to pay more attention to several areas relevant for the sustainable development of the blue economy, such as fisheries and aquaculture and sustainable tourism, and for the need to pay special attention to the atlantic ors, which differ greatly from each other and it is essential to always take into account their specificities.
recent natural disasters across europe are a stark reminder to everyone that climate change and its effects are something felt not only in far-away countries, but as well in other continents.
according to data from the european environment agency, the average temperature in europe has been 2.2 degrees celsius higher over the last five years than it was at the end of the 19th century.
it is estimated that between 1980 and 2019, over 85 000 people in the eu lost their lives due to extreme weather and climate-related events.
the final loss is caused by extreme weather and climate-related events exceeded eur 419 billion in the eu27 over the last 40 years.
the ipcc findings indicate that human activities have altered the environment at an unprecedented pace, with the unavoidable consequence that catastrophic impacts lie ahead unless the world rapidly and dramatically cuts greenhouse gas emissions.
we have pledged to be the first climate-neutral continent.
the climate law adopted this year by parliament and the council set us on a firm path to climate neutrality by 2050. our ambition is firmly anchored in the climate mainstreaming of eu policies and set out in the green deal and underpinned by the multiannual financial framework for 2021-2027 and the covid-19 recovery plans.
furthermore, since increased climate ambition is not without costs, we will need to analyse whether this package ensures a fair distribution of the burden between economic sectors and member states, but also within the individual member states themselves.
the eu is currently emitting less than 10% of global emissions and, while we have a downward trajectory, other economies are still increasing their emissions, but we have a responsibility to lead by example.
there are some positive developments at international level, such as the recent announcement made by the usa and china to commit to reach climate neutrality respectively by 2050 and 2060. but it is not sufficient.
every country has to draw a credible pathway towards climate neutrality if we want to preserve our collective chances to stay below 1.5%.
it will be europe’s contribution to meet the global challenges of climate change and it will be our opportunity to lead by example while future-proofing our own economy and ensuring prosperity for european citizens, leaving no one behind.
this is a quote from hamlet that keeps coming back to me in this whole process of finding solutions to what is an existential threat to humanity, the combination of the climate crisis and the serious risk of ecocide.
that is the essence of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report, that if we don’t act now, tipping points will be reached quite soon and one might even fear sooner than even the ipcc report describes.
the one thing we cannot afford is for the social side to be opposed to the climate side.
i see this threat very clearly now that we have a discussion about the price hike in the energy sector.
along the way in this energy price crisis, we have seen that the prices for renewables have stayed low and stable.
so, instead of being paralysed or slowing things down because of the price hike now in the energy sector, we should speed things up in the transition to renewable energy so that affordable renewable energy becomes available for everyone.
of course, if you follow the reasoning we have put in fit for 55, for instance on the introduction of the eu emissions trading system (ets) in transport and buildings, in combination with the social climate fund, you will give member states the opportunity to make their own choices, for instance reducing the vat, reducing duties on energy, and giving direct support to households.
it’s the choice we have made because we believe that, in the analysis of the fact that emissions and transport are still going up and they need to be going down, and that the energy efficiency of buildings is not increasing at the rate that we need to get to the -55% emission reduction in 2030, we have to do something.
then the emissions will continue to rise in transport and we will never, ever reach the target we set into law.
i spoke with the minister from bhutan, who is chair of the least developed countries (ldc) group in the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc).
i believe we can still make a success of glasgow but, more than that, i believe we can prevent the climate crisis from getting out of hand and out of control.
we must turn on the climate change turbo in europe and worldwide.
for example, we see the possibility of opening up a path for cars that run on synthetic fuels, so that we can take all the opportunities to become truly climate neutral.
i would like to express my clear support for this proposal from the european commission, for the new ets and for the social fund for climate action.
the point is that everyone who is climate-friendly benefits.
where is the social compensation for the eeg, which was introduced in germany, for example, to achieve renewable energy targets?
– mr president, i will not surprise you and say that we at s&d welcome the fit for climate package.
we need to talk about progressive energy taxation.
we need to talk about whether we are willing to directly support consumers to become more sustainable, and of course about the carbon border adjustment mechanism, about effort-sharing, etc., etc.
this is the first time we have the opportunity to say yes to a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that will put climate, carbon, into the rules of the game of international trade, and we will be the first in the world to do so.
we have the opportunity to say yes to the expansion of the maritime sector in the carbon market.
this is also the first time in the world that a political entity has decided to integrate the maritime sector to make it pay a fair price for carbon.
you know, mr timmermans, we are very sceptical about one part of the big climate plan you are proposing, namely the extension of the carbon market to buildings and transport, because we think the political cost is very high and the climate impact is very small.
but i also wanted to ask you, mr timmermans: in the climate law we have unanimously given the european commission the opportunity to tell the council and parliament, at every stage of the legislative process, whether we are still in line with the target of minus 57%.
how will you proceed tomorrow, in the next discussions in the committee on the environment, in the votes in the committee on the environment and in the other associated committees?
we're going to have dozens and dozens of proposals that are going to weaken the climate package.
we need you to activate the climate bill and make sure we're on the right track.
– mr president, this summer the un panel on climate change gave us a dramatic reminder of what’s at stake.
they tell us that if we don’t drastically limit our emissions, every single region on our planet will suffer the immediate consequences of climate change.
they tell us we only have until 2030 maximum to do everything in our power to act against the climate and biodiversity crisis.
the decisions that we are taking today have to deliver on the global promise to keep the temperature rise well below two degrees, and it’s the industrialised countries that have built their wealth on greenhouse gas emissions that are now threatening the lives and livelihoods of millions of people around the globe.
not only are we losing out in the fight to keep the climate conditions liveable, but also in the race for who provides the tools and technology for the transition.
rather, we need to end public subsidies for fossil fuel, get rid of free pollution certificates, complement the renovation phase with the solar phase and accelerate the switch to renewables.
mr president, the european union's 'fit for 55' package means a direct burden on the working people, because of the so-called 'green businesses' of the groups, from the green new taxes on carbon emissions to electricity, which end up in the same invoices as the most expensive imported natural gas and the very expensive and unstable monoculture of renewable energy sources.
under the pretext of climate change, energy liberalisation, emissions trading and desalination are becoming more widespread, leading to price increases for electricity, 'green' products and services, which come either with the scourge of overtaxation on old fuels or with the carrot of subsidies for the purchase of inaccessible electric cars.
only if the people are freed from the laws of the market and capitalist profit, with the means of production, energy sources and networks becoming their social property, only then will energy planning serve their interests.
mr president, in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) that i chair we are of course very much interested in the fit for 55 package, as itre competence on energy, industrial policies, new technologies and innovation and envi competence on climate policy are very much interlinked.
we need to ensure consistency across policies, streamline our climate ambitions with a feasible transition leaving no region behind, with no industrial sector being negotiated, ensuring further the resilience both in the energy and industrial sectors and in particular of the energy system ensuring the security of energy supply.
all of this while striving for energy autonomy in the union, and keeping costs affordable for end users.
in securing our lead in tackling climate change we need to work towards climate innovation and digitalisation, remaining competitive and ensuring growth in all our industrial sectors, and in particular in the heavy ones.
as chair of the itre committee, i can say that the long-term commitment of this committee is to achieve the ambitious targets on climate policies, but with a coherent industrial policy with a just and inclusive transition, while maintaining the security of energy supply in the union.
even for those of us who follow climate change on a daily basis, the ipcc report this summer was a real horror read.
the commission's climate package is a major step towards the creation of a greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
for each year, we will reduce the emission allowance, including in industry and energy production, by 4 per cent instead of 2 per cent.
it's clear that climate legislation is already making a real difference.
nothing prevents us from exceeding the ambitions of the climate law in future negotiations, and that must be our ambition.
we cannot leave the fate of the world in the hands of climate conservative governments who are not taking responsibility.
it’s also great to hear that in this parliament there’s a lot of support for climate action.
we need to step up on energy efficiency, and be assured that we will fight for that.
but also, when we are talking about a fair transition, it cannot be that the industry keeps on having free allowances and, at the same time, we are expanding the eu emissions trading system (ets) to sectors where the citizens will have to pay, and, also there, if you look at the revenues of that system, we just give 50% back to the member states without any demands.
europe is already a world leader in improving the living and environmental conditions.
this is not only true for our peace and stability, but also for the consequences of climate change.
that interconnectedness also means that we must work together to combat climate change and adapt to changing realities, such as extreme weather events.
timmermans' green earth shift is leading to unaffordable energy prices, the ecb's ultra-low interest rate policy is creating unaffordable housing and the excessive corona measures are causing further polarization of society.
this summer has reminded us there is still much to be done: on geopolitics, climate, health, digital security, our role in the world, and migration, to name a few.
deliver on climate policies to cut down emissions, meet our climate targets in 2050 and adapt to new climate situations.
because when we look at our task for the century, the fight against climate change, we all know: we don't have a century.
and that's why it's so important that we give our response, yes, our commitment, to how we're going to address this climate crisis.
so let us go ahead and tackle this task with the strength, the energy, the creativity and the european passion that i know you have.
and that's the big issue of fighting climate change.
and we have instruments, from article 7 proceedings to infringement proceedings, to help us to deal with the problems of the environment.
i thank you for the energy or the will to act that i felt today.
and with climate change and climate protection, it's clear that this project must also be socially protected, so it's a social-ecological climate protection.
we use clean nuclear energy without air pollution and co2 emissions.
we have the preservation of our beautiful nature, and we have the security of supply, which keeps energy affordable.
as we are still in the midst of the pandemic, we can and must now set the course for a sustainable and forward-looking approach.
everyone knows that we have to take care of climate protection.
but that this has to go hand in hand with the preservation of biodiversity, unfortunately, does not.
the conservation of biodiversity and the creation of new spaces for biodiversity must be the core of our development cooperation and also the guiding principle of our world trade policy - alongside, of course, climate protection.
– mr president, honourable members, i think this debate has showed that biodiversity loss, together with climate change, is one of the defining global threats of our time.
i thank again the european parliament for supporting external action that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainable development, and i thank you for supporting the european green deal.
we are positioning the eu as a leader in global action to reverse biodiversity loss and fight climate change.
so the external dimension of our biodiversity strategy 2030, the forestry strategy 2030 and the new eu climate adaptation strategy and the farm to fork strategy, they all provide important roadmaps for our engagement, and i personally really agree with you that only with this consistent policy coherence do we have possibilities to succeed.
in addition, the commission’s recent trade policy review highlights the importance of bringing eu trade in line with environmental and social sustainability.
i also want to thank you for mentioning so many times the sustainable development goals and agenda 2030, which is the main framework for our developing cooperation.
and i also want to confirm my personal engagement to drive this agenda and the sustainable development agenda forward.
mr president, i thank you all, because i think there is a growing awareness, as the commissioner said, that the green deal is primarily about defending the climate, but the second pillar is biodiversity: we can fight co2, if there are no longer any ecosystems, life is impossible, we destroy life.
we must not contradict ourselves, because if we subsidize industrialists who extract fossil fuels or who damage the environment and if we do not sufficiently strengthen the legislation and we can have an influence through double standards, you see that all the efforts made at the level of the european union will not be able to have an impact.
our trade agreements are flawed, in that they do not sufficiently emphasise the constraints of biodiversity conservation.
trade is first, but i think we really need to reinforce the importance of climate and biodiversity in our trade agreements, with a deterrent for countries like brazil, but you could think of uruguay, paraguay, etc.
it emphasises the importance of biodiversity for human health, rural development, fisheries, agriculture, etc.
stop building giant offshore wind farms, which disturb the birds and fish (and thus biodiversity) and destroy the local fisheries.
nor does the legalisation of the debate - by making a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment a human right - offer a solution.
i therefore conclude by appealing to the outgoing government in the netherlands: the commission will also be able to submit a request for a grant in the interest of a strong and sustainable tourism sector.
the causes are many, but the main factor is the rise in the price of gas and not, as some claim, the emissions trading system.
pointing the finger at the green deal as the main culprit for the increase in energy prices is simply a fallacy.
improving energy efficiency will also lower our energy bills because we will consume less.
promoting local energy communities will certainly help as well.
and finally, we are also concerned that the price escalation will increase the dominant market position of the large energy companies, as it may lead to the disappearance of small companies in the sector, reducing competition and further strengthening oligopolies.
mr. president, today we're discussing the skyrocketing price of gas with a high risk of energy poverty.
mr timmermans said: 'the irony is that if we had switched to renewable energy sources earlier, we would not be in this situation today'.
the real irony is that it is climate policy that has caused coal and nuclear power plants to be shut down and gas extraction to be minimized.
energy demand must now be met by subsidised 'renewables'.
france is self-sufficient in nuclear energy and has not had these problems.
nuclear energy should be included in the taxonomy as clean energy as soon as possible.
and for now, the rapidly rising price of carbon emission allowances must be scrapped to relieve citizens and businesses of the financial burden.
politicians who only link the excessive price increases we are facing today with our climate plans are fooling their voters.
i already see several companies being forced to stop production because of the high energy prices.
our climate plans are leading us towards an independent and affordable energy supply throughout europe, for all of europe.
mr president, it is not the first time that i have stood here and advocated a fair sharing of the burdens and the pleasures of the energy transition.
but do we dare to have a debate about the disproportionate burden of high energy prices and taxes on our smes and households?
we promised to switch to clean energy for the next generation, and we have to deliver on that promise.
but the promise of security of supply and affordability - a public interest - has been too easily left to the market by governments in the energy transition in recent years.
in the short term, only national governments can keep the energy bill accessible to people.
and in the longer term, european cooperation can and must ensure a sensible energy transition and a sensible dismantling of the current system.
we need to reduce energy demand by, for example, insulating houses better.
the cleanest and cheapest energy is the energy we don't use.
we must increase the production of solar, wind and nuclear energy in particular, because the present situation proves once again that we do not have the luxury of abandoning technology.
and we need to better connect the energy systems of countries.
in short, a robust energy system and a sensible transition, because a warm home for your family shouldn't depend on your wallet.
inspired by this, and looking at the "farmer to the plate" strategy, i would like to say that the civilization of a society is measured by how we treat animals, climate and biodiversity.
the excessive use of antibiotics, pesticides and fertilizers is causing a loss of biodiversity, an increase in animal-to-human diseases, animal suffering, climate change and unhealthy eating habits.
the quality of our agricultural sector is one of the best in the world and must remain so, but with the lowest possible use of harmful substances and harmful emissions.
this is not only in the interests of the climate, but also in the interests of everyone's health and above all in the interests of our farmers.
agriculture accounts for as much as a tenth of eu greenhouse gas emissions.
despite a third of the eu budget going to agriculture, often with climate implications, emissions are not falling.
a report by the european court of auditors finds that these climatic changes have had no effect on climate for a full decade.
the soil to table strategy is a first step in the right direction towards sustainable food production.
it is good that we are halving the emissions of nutrients in nature, the baltic sea overfishing is an example and this has to stop.
it is now up to the commission to translate these objectives into concrete proposals for action on climate, environment, health and animals.
on top of that, we see the impact of climate change affecting our farmers.
we see the loss of biodiversity.
this current model is not sustainable.
the italian farmers are the first defenders of the environment and, despite these firsts, europe wants to impose new absurd rules on our farmers.
no, dear european bureaucrats, you are completely off track because you do not understand that environmental sustainability cannot exist unless the economic sustainability of farms is protected first.
environmental fanaticism will lead to the closure of thousands of businesses with the very dangerous consequence of abandonment of the fields.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market.
ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is putting many families and businesses in an unsustainable situation and can undermine social cohesion, the hopes for economic recovery and public support for the european union's green and digital transition.
and in the medium and long term we must continue to focus on cheaper and cleaner energy, as we have proposed in the european green deal.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, two years ago i also made my first plenary speech here, and again it was on a climate resolution: the climate resolution for the madrid cop.
and again, that climate resolution was full of wishes and desires, but to be honest, we went to the climate summit with very little concrete plans at the time.
yes, we have ambitions, we have a wish, we have a dream to be climate neutral by the middle of this century.
we have our climate bill and we have the ready for 55 package.
the "ready for 55" package is our response to the energy crisis we are experiencing to become more independent and to get better access to affordable energy.
so this year, we're going to the climate summit with concrete plans and we're calling on everyone to join us.
let me use a slogan from another political party: we have to 'make a move' now, because climate change is not just in europe.
i have high expectations for glasgow now, as i did in paris, especially when i see america back at the table and china has also said that it will achieve climate neutrality, albeit by 2060. let's not forget that the chinese started their industrial revolution 100 years after us.
it is a curious paradox that this proliferation of digital traceability tools grouped together under the name of "pass" "carbon pass", "health pass", "social security pass", etc.
the energy transition is essentially a material transition from fossil fuels to raw materials essential for the production of solar panels, wind turbines and batteries, but also for the production of hydrogen and raw materials which are now often found in many other products.
we're going to need a lot more raw materials, because it's simple: without solar panels, without wind turbines, without hydrogen, our energy transition is in jeopardy.
this is not just about standards for the sustainable extraction of raw materials, but also about social standards.
because extracting raw materials causes more carbon emissions than recycling, and by using raw materials smartly, we can reduce our carbon footprint.
i am pleased that it will do that and that it will make a common historical effort to invest in things such as tackling the climate crisis and fighting social inequality.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's environmental policy is not being implemented.
ms metz, we will propose to reform our pharmaceutical legislation to ensure the environmental sustainability of the manufacturing process and to strengthen environmental risk assessment requirements.
i think that this is extremely important in terms of strengthening our cooperation with our international partners to ensure the environmental sustainability of active pharmaceutical ingredients imported from non—eu countries.
the only facts are the increase in the retirement age, the dramatic reduction in pensions and the late payments not paid with the christmas tip-fifty-dollar, which even for a joke does not cover energy accuracy, the price increases in consumer goods and the explosion of rents.
the european union is not defending its citrus growers when it does not require cold treatment of imports from south africa to prevent the introduction of the false moth - one of the most feared pests among citrus growers - a treatment which is required by the united states and china and which the european food safety authority - as you are well aware, commissioner - strongly recommends for reasons of plant and environmental safety.
i think that today is a dark day for european climate policy, but also for environmental policy.
probably just improved technology again, but no real change in the environment, not even in the environmental ambitions that the farmers have to develop.
what annoys me most is that we have agreed here together on a green deal, a farm-to-fork strategy, ambitious biodiversity targets - none of this is found in the common agricultural policy.
if it continues as it is, there will be no hope for farmers, but there will be no hope for the environment either.
this requires a balanced policy where sustainability and commitment to competitive businesses go hand in hand.
i therefore ask the commission to look at the economic effects as well as the environmental effects when it is examining the strategic plans.
with this resolution, parliament shows its strong support for multilateralism and calls on the commission and all wto members to achieve concrete results that strengthen fair, sustainable, rules-based international trade, capable of responding to the challenges of the 21st century.
just after cop26, i read a very interesting interview with a prominent professor in climate science, also one of the lead authors of the ipcc reports, who said she was much impressed by the results of the cop26.
there’s a methane pledge to significantly reduce methane emissions, essentially to slow down global warming.
this sets up the much needed framework for an international carbon market.
this creates an opportunity to collaborate on a global level and use the best available technologies, achieving the highest decrease in emissions in the most cost—effective way.
these cannot be exhausted in the strict environmental dimension.
they call for a social dimension, recognition of the right of peoples to development, a variety of measures, the adoption of a regulatory approach aimed at effective emission reductions, the promotion of mobility policies based on public transport, public control of strategic sectors such as energy, the encouragement of local production and consumption, the right of each country to its food sovereignty, fair regulation of world trade, the rejection of militarism and the defence of peace.
mr president, the european union, governments and ngos have sown massive illusions that something positive for people and the environment could come out of cop26.
a war of interests that calls the bombings of the united states, the european union and nato, which kill people and destroy the environment, 'green', that declares nuclear tests, the incineration of waste and the sole cultivation of renewable resources 'green'.
the green transition and the liberalisation of energy leave people exposed to energy precision, green fees and price increases.
individual responsibility is laid upon them, while public property, forests and the natural environment are destroyed by floods, fires and earthquakes.
climate change is being used as a pretext to exonerate the big culprit: the capitalist system.
only the people, in conflict with corporate interests, with workers' power and a socialised economy, can save the people, the environment and the planet.
i say that fighting global warming is fighting social cooling.
poverty is the precondition for accepting the unacceptable, with the not-to-be-neglected peculiarity that polluting emissions, just like a virus for a pandemic, know no borders.
the outcome of the glasgow climate summit is a billionaire party for bankers and investors who were glad that people had forgotten about the recent corruption allegations related to the un green climate fund.
carbon leakage, companies running away from overly ambitious climate policies.
earlier i called the climate plans an irresponsible experiment with our economy.
eu citizens, who have to pay the astronomical price of cop26, did not have a vote in the climate pact.
green finance is not a climate change issue.
the carbon problem will shift, but it will not be solved by bankers and investors.
ladies and gentlemen, the sad result of cop26 is that only the bankers will win, while manufacturing companies are being driven out, citizens are being impoverished and the climate is not benefitting.
mr president, protecting the environment for future generations is one of the key challenges ahead of us.
the most challenging task will be to find ways to protect the environment in a way that will boost our economy, employment and social care.
the environmental agenda is stronger every day and i believe that the organisation of the glasgow summit is really a success of our european policy.
the second one is that countries also agreed to a robust process to develop a new and larger climate finance goal to come into effect after 2025. thirdly, finance.
better investment for sustainable transport modes was not forced in glasgow.
the subsidisation of fossil fuels, the largest source of global greenhouse gas emissions, was opposed by several countries with large fossil-fuel based economic sectors.
how could europe do that, with what it voted on the cap yesterday, a cap of climate change?
i have never seen five environment ministers denouncing france, poland and other european countries at a cop.
it is not the nuclear and gas lobby that should dictate europe's climate ambition.
the fact that we are now going to apply the emissions trading system globally is an important step in that direction.
that is the transition we are in, but it does require caution, also in view of the current energy crisis.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
– mr president, when it comes to the state of the energy union there is both good and bad news to consider.
the good news is that the energy and climate objectives for 2020 have largely been met and renewables overtook fossil fuels as the number one power source in the eu.
overall, the eu energy and climate trends in 2020 were quite positive, but they still fell short of what is really needed to achieve the objectives of the energy union.
we need to reduce our energy dependency and increase energy security by cutting down energy imports, eliminating subsidies for climate— and environmentally—harmful energy sources, and taking a leading role in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
let us talk about energy poverty.
energy poverty affects up to 31 million people in the eu, according to the latest data, and this issue has to remain in sharp focus in light of the economic challenges of covid—19 and the current price situation.
in this regard, we welcome the commission statement on exploring the benefits of joint procurement of energy reserves as an addition to the toolbox in combating high energy prices.
companies that make full use of employee participation are more sustainable, more efficient and more gender equal.
we expect, mr minister, that european governments will give clear answers on this, just as we expect clear commitments to respond to the energy price crisis, on the one hand by pursuing renewable energy and energy efficiency commitments with the 'fit for 55' package and on the other by joint purchases to increase energy storage and reduce dependence on third countries.
this deeply questionable ritual is not only an outrageous waste of taxpayers' money in these difficult times, but in these times it is also an attack on public health.
the resolution we are voting on today is the result of their courage, commitment and belief that a safe working environment for all is possible, for which we thank them very much!