we do not want social dumping, we do not want the social systems of the member states to be at odds with one another, but rather to work together and to improve the rights of citizens, whether it be social rights, consumer protection, environmental protection, climate protection and all these issues which are so close to our hearts.
i do not think so, because, yes, today there is an urgent need to act also for the ecological transition and for the digital transition.
we have not yet fully implemented the concept of 'maximum sustainable yield', and there are already those who want to change it to 'maximum economic yield', without any scientific basis.
fishermen are the greatest protectors of the seas and biodiversity, not some politicians and radicals who only look in one direction.
– mr president, i welcome the interest of this house for the very important issues of sustainable fisheries and marine environmental protection and i have carefully listened to your interventions.
replying to mr ruissen and mato, as regards the concept of maximum economic health, i’ve already mentioned it in my introductory remarks that our first ambition of course should be to properly implement the maximum sustainable yield, which is at the moment our current legal obligation and of course top priority.
and let me say that i particularly welcome also the involvement of the members of the environment committee in this debate the issue we discussed tonight is so cross-cutting that we need to ensure close cooperation between fisheries and environmental communities experts to ensure the necessary coherence and credibility of our actions and policies.
honourable members, i hope that the final report as it will be voted on thursday will underpin our common efforts under the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy for 2030, in line with the resolutions of the european parliament of january 2020 on the european green deal and on the 15th conference of parties of the convention on biological biodiversity.
all the issues raised in this report will be very valuable input for the preparation of our report on the implementation of the common fisheries policy, due too for the end of 2022, as well as for the first report on the technical measures regulation and for the action plan to conserve fishery resources and protect marine ecosystems, as announced at biodiversity strategy for 2030.
the debate is closed.
many of you have asked for the sustainable regulations to deal with a proper way of managing migration.
this is not sustainable.
the commission has stated several times that it considers that this pipeline does not lead to diversifying the energy sources of the european union.
this is one of the objectives of our energy union and this project is not in the framework of our objectives, but we cannot prevent the companies from building it if the german government agrees with that.
they publish interesting resolutions, or, like germany, they build the second nord stream ii gas pipeline, in opposition to european solidarity, in opposition to energy solidarity, together with putin.
looking at the relationship with the united states during the presidency of donald trump, it should be mentioned that he strengthened these ties - military, energy, supporting the three seas issue.
it is in our common interest to consolidate our strategic partnership in security and defence and to further develop our cooperation in the fields of economy, energy and energy security.
military, economic, energy ties have been strengthened.
the us has backed the three seas initiative, which aims to create a sustainable foundation for economic development in the region.
it's a difficult six months, a lot of difficult issues that will decide the future of europe: the pandemic, vaccines, rebuilding trust after what pfeizer did by limiting vaccine supply, or germany negotiating its contracts outside the european agreement, and climate law that is still unfinished work on it needs to be accelerated (the votes of the parliament, the commission and the european council are divergent), adaptation to climate law of regulations, including the regulations on absorption, as well as the very important ets regulation.
as you can see, the ets, the european carbon levy system, has gotten out of hand.
in the last few months, we've had to pay twice as much for a ton of carbon dioxide.
we've been witnessing an unprecedented wave of disruption in energy supply and electricity price spikes.
winter has exposed the reliability of renewable energy and restored concerns about energy security.
the recent months have shown that too rapid an energy transition risks serious disruptions in energy production and distribution.
i therefore urge you not to ignore the problem of energy security and access to energy.
we need to ensure a reasonable pace of transition, but with indigenous fossil fuels as stabilizers of the energy system.
the roadmap for the transition to a circular economy contains recommendations proposed under the concepts of a green economy, sustainable development and a low-carbon economy, which are inextricably linked to the circular economy.
the action plan refers to the principle that goods should be produced and used for as long as possible in accordance with their position in the value chain and that waste, if generated, should be treated in accordance with the waste hierarchy that is best for both the economy and the environment.
the roadmap identifies four priority areas for poland: sustainable production, sustainable consumption, the bioeconomy and new business models.
the objective of this plan is to accelerate the transformational change required by the european green deal, while taking advantage of the circular economy actions implemented since 2015. the action plan must strengthen the eu's competitiveness while promoting environmental protection and new consumer rights.
these issues have been given priority, with useful recommendations on digitalisation, recycling, better waste treatment and green public procurement.
the new circular economy action plan is a major project in the field of climate and environment policy.
greater sustainability of value chains will improve the competitiveness and profitability of european industry and the strategic autonomy of the union economy.
many smes are already being supported to move to more sustainable business models, but the complex and outdated procedures and administrative burdens are hindering this.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sport and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sport and its impact on the environment.
important climate targets should not be imposed on the economies of weak countries.
in sweden, green energy just lost to frost, and the swedish government is proposing to turn off the vacuum cleaners.
today, poland needs gas-based electricity and heat production as a necessary transition to meet common climate goals.
secondly, reinforcement of ex post controls as public procurement rules are relaxed to prevent waste and corruption.
and fourth, sustainability.
therefore, the money must be invested in the energy transition in a targeted and binding manner.
my country, greece, has already planned and programmed a series of major interventions to digitize the public sector, education and health, to deeply upgrade buildings and the environment, to sustainable transport and to permanently decarbonize our energy mix.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
it is also important that, in addition to digital and climate transitions, the european pillar of social rights is at the heart of the rfm.
as already mentioned, member states now have to ensure the ratification of the own resources decision by their national parliaments and, at the same time, present good national recovery and resilience plans, ensuring that reforms and investment reach regions, cities, businesses, citizens quickly, making a difference in recovering from the crisis and reorienting our economies towards a more sustainable, innovative and inclusive future.
member states should prepare simplified recovery and resilience plans, covering reforms and sustainable public investment projects.
unfortunately, the hungarian left is mobilizing all its energy to work on how it can harm hungary.
with clear targets for green and digital investments and reforms, this economic package can be a catalyst for innovation and sustainable resilient economic growth.
and we're doing that by investing in climate change and digitization.
we must do everything together to strengthen europe, austria and regions such as burgenland in a sustainable way and to create new jobs.
our country needs to be properly prepared to meet the challenges of the transition to a green and digital economy, and with the eu's support, our society needs to become more sustainable and resilient once the pandemic is behind us.
if you wanted to hear what you heard from mr lavrov you could have met him on the margins of osce or the un, where the environment would not have been controlled by the russians.
as long as we are dependent on russian energy, we will not be able to have a fully independent and effective foreign policy.
that's why we have to fight for 100% renewable energy and to support our fellow democrats.
i would like to highlight that here we have yet another crystal clear example that there should be no complicity with repression, grave human rights violations or environmental destruction.
we should also urge our ukrainian partners to create a predictable regulatory environment with an independent judiciary and limited influence of state—owned enterprises and oligarch—based interest groups, in order to attract much—needed foreign direct investment.
what must we change to overcome the social crisis for the wider sections of the population and to secure european environmental standards?
the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the agreement on the establishment of a european atomic energy community ('the agreement') and on the implementation of the agreement on the establishment of a european atomic energy community ('the agreement').
and thirdly, that we are already drawing on the lessons of what we can improve — the regulatory environment, the industrial ecosystem, the operational environment and the predictability our member states should have to roll out vaccinations.
this is why we need to cooperate closely with this house to find sustainable solutions to these crucial issues, because we are in this together.
it would also be epidemiologically pointless, as containment of the virus in a limited area would not be sustainable.
the recently proposed european democracy action plan, the digital services act and the digital markets act are important steps forward and will make the digital environment more transparent and actors like social media companies more accountable.
greta thunberg and wangari maathai are just two of the many amazing young environmental activists fighting for our future.
of course, energy independence is important.
so it is crucial to maintain full compliance with the highest standards, with safety, environmental, legal or health standards, but i will stress again: where there is a regime, where there is an attempt to break democracy, let's forget about european or global norms and standards.
and this is not just a security problem -- financial and environmental -- but also a geopolitical problem.
many experts stress and point out that russia expects that the expected deficit of electricity generation capacity in the central european countries, in particular in poland, in the next few years, which will occur through the increase in energy consumption, as well as the reduction of production capacity resulting from restrictive climate policy, will prompt european decision-makers to change the strategy of blocking the power coming from the controversial belarusian installation, which will create an opportunity to export surplus electricity to the countries of central and eastern europe and thus to gain further political leverage on central europe.
it seems to be a very important moment for us, in the context of the covid crisis and in the context of the plans for investment in energy in europe and the energy solidarity we want to build, to also pay attention to this issue, which can have very negative consequences for central europe.
there are too many politicians in this house who are constantly raising the issue of nuclear power as part of the climate change, but you too must react to what is happening now, just a few kilometres from the border of europe.
it is not just a climate issue, but also a security issue.
it was also unclear to what extent the belarusian authorities had implemented the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency.
we must put pressure on the belarusian authorities on this issue, and electricity produced in ostrovet should have no place in the eu energy market.
this is the purpose of standards adopted by the european union and the international atomic energy agency.
i would therefore like to ask whether, in addition to cooperating with the national nuclear safety regulators, the international atomic energy agency, the authorities and authorities of belarus, the commission is gathering and analysing information from other sources on the technical status of key elements of the ostrovets power plant?
i would remind you that the polish institution responsible for nuclear safety and radiation protection, the state atomic energy agency, maintains a regular dialogue with its counterpart in belarus.
the additional element i would like to draw attention to is the ecological aspect.
when the european parliament calls for more budget for humanitarian aid, it is precisely to protect the victims of these conflicts, of hunger and of climate change.
the agenda includes the report by yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, 'towards an eu border carbon adjustment mechanism compatible with the wto' (2020/2043 (ini)) (a9-0019/2021).
we have worked, i must say, with a great deal of understanding, with a spirit of progress, with a spirit of compromise, and i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but also in the committee on international trade, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on budgets and the committee on industry, research and energy, which, of course, tabled an opinion and sometimes because of their competence.
we know the climate emergency, we're living it.
scientists are constantly warning us and we have decided to put the climate agenda at the heart of the european agenda, with the european green deal, of course, and then with the ongoing negotiations on the climate act.
we have this report on carbon adjustment at the frontiers which, of course, links climate change, the european green deal and innovation, protection and the economic and industrial reconstruction of europe.
what is this carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders?
first, the aim is to extend the scope of european climate policy to the whole of the economy concerned, since until now climate policy has focused on the production of greenhouse gases on european soil.
with border carbon adjustment, our climate policy also covers the issue of imports and so it is essential to shift production-related emissions from european soil to our carbon footprint.
today, no report has shown that in the years that have passed, there have been carbon leaks, these offshoring related to european climate policy, but with the new target - i hope 60 per cent by 2030 - that's what the european parliament has voted for and i have no doubt that's what the european commission is advocating - we will undoubtedly tighten the constraints on the economy, we will undoubtedly change the rules on the ets market and therefore ask our companies to do more.
so the objective of border carbon adjustment is to counter, to fight this unfair competition by requiring companies that would export to the european market to meet exactly the same constraints that we impose on our companies in the european market, on european soil.
we agreed, and i think all the political groups supported it, that the carbon adjustment at the border was going to be the right mechanism to protect us from this unfair competition and to avoid carbon leakage.
but if we consider that this is the right mechanism, then it must at some point replace the existing mechanisms, in particular those of the ets regulation, in all our climate policies, there were free allowances.
i hope you have read, as i have, the court of auditors' report on the ets and on free allowances which follows other court of auditors' reports, which tells us that these free allowances are not only the most effective mechanism to serve the climate objective which is the subject of this debate, but also the most effective mechanism to protect our industries.
our only concern, ladies and gentlemen, is to ensure the credibility, legitimacy, legality in the eyes of the wto and the effectiveness of a border adjustment mechanism to strengthen our climate action and protect our industries.
in conclusion, i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect all the work we have done in all the committees and i would ask the epp colleagues in particular to support the work you have done in all the committees, including the committee on the environment.
we have a historic responsibility: to fight climate change is a citizen's aspiration.
– mr president, i think it is a welcome initiative by parliament to highlight the importance of a carbon border adjustment mechanism, or cbam as we call it now.
we know that climate change is the greatest challenge we face.
parliament and the council are currently debating how to incorporate an increased target for emission reduction by 2030 in the european climate law.
to make this ambition a reality the commission will next summer present a revision of all its climate and energy legislation, and the cbam will be a key element of the commission’s comprehensive green growth agenda.
as highlighted in your report, the overarching objective of cbam is to help ensure the integrity and effectiveness of our climate policies by addressing the risk of carbon leakage.
cbam is a climate measure.
it is about enabling the eu to step up to its climate ambitions.
the objective of sustainable growth calls urgently for a green transition, but also for a fair transition.
the social and employment impacts of the cbam will be assessed and compared with the likely impacts of increasing the eu climate ambition without introducing such an instrument.
in selecting the sectors, we will ensure that the measure applies where the risk of carbon leakage is highest.
we are assessing various scenarios to allow for a smooth and predictable transition from the main measure currently in place to address carbon leakage – the free allowances of ets – and the cbam.
it is important to engage with trade partners and this concern is also reflected in the report, because climate change is a global issue and the solution also needs to be global, and we have better conditions for this global agreement now.
if we are ambitious together, we will be more effective, and the mutual benefits of our respective efforts will increase, and the climate cop in glasgow later this year will be an important moment in this regard.
– mr president, we need a carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) so that europe can effectively curb its global carbon footprint from the consumption of goods, not only those made in europe but also imported ones.
this goal is clear: products entering the eu market have to bear the comparable cost of their greenhouse gas emissions, regardless of origin.
in the eu we have an emissions trading scheme (ets), but imported goods have an advantage that is detrimental for reducing global emissions.
there are voices in favour of us making a transition from one system of anti-carbon leakage measures to another, the current one being free allowances under the eu ets, the future being the cbam.
and if we get rid of free allowances, we may foster carbon leakage, not within the sectors directly concerned, but in those dependent on production.
we in the european people’s party feel that in regard to ets reform, the report went a little too far, and we would prefer to bring the balance back so that the report is not a report on the future of the ets system but on the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union's growing climate ambitions, combined with the economic crisis we are experiencing, are putting european industry in a very difficult position.
the design of the mechanism must take into account the implications not only for climate policy but also for the competitiveness and economic development of the member states.
both for the direction of change, for additional revenue for the european union to support the energy transition, and for the competitiveness of european companies.
not to cover all industries, not to withdraw free emissions, not to create a mechanism within the european union and finally not to move money to third countries, because even frans timmermans said that there is no money for the energy transition and that it has been calculated incorrectly.
because we don't have a climate law.
125 times it was said, "no to climate law".
finally, on february 26, the un released a report that found that 40 percent of the countries that are parties to the paris agreement have declared that they will only reduce their carbon emissions by half a percent.
in an age of extraordinary online platforms, let's not waste energy and take the european taxpayer seriously, noting that the digital giants are simply breaking tax laws.
and so, for example, we need to modernize energy in the spirit of a better climate.
so we also support that the 30% can be used to improve the climate.
of particular importance, also for poland, is the priority financing ranging from health, infrastructure, environmental protection, energy, transport to innovation and digital technologies.
the pandemic has highlighted the need for resilient investments with sustainability and a future perspective.
to achieve a reduction in air pollutant emissions of at least 55% by 2030, we must have abundant renewable energy.
investeu can support investments in batteries built in the european union, in offshore wind farms, which now have the potential to provide more than 35% of total electricity demand by 2050, and in wave energy, whose technology is currently 13 megawatts but has now matured and can attract investment.
the programme is in line with the sustainable development goal goal 3, which aims to reduce non-communicable premature mortality by one third by 2030. at least €1 billion will be dedicated to disease prevention, which will support the health systems of the eu member states and provide real help for patients.
health is the most important thing, because without a healthy society, we cannot grow and we cannot achieve our ambitious economic, environmental and social goals.
this area is of course listed in the challenges facing member states in the part on priorities, but not in the part on stimulating reforms and investment to support sustainable recovery.
an approach that makes environmental concerns the top priority and subordinates economic objectives such as sustainable finance and economic development to it should be seen as extremely irresponsible, especially now in the face of an unprecedented crisis.
everything can be counted, and ideas without counting are just a waste of time.
it’s not the first time the commission is devoting so much effort and energy to the media sector, because also, as i said, we have varying trends quite visible in in many member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i hope that benjamin and all children can grow up in a european environment of tolerance and freedom to be who they want to be, without discrimination and without violence.
you can't tackle child poverty and exclusion without tackling health, environmental protection and financial support.
firstly, the profitability of agricultural production; secondly, the quality of life and the environment in rural areas; thirdly, non-agricultural jobs and an active society; and finally, efficient administration.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances.
i would remind you that this funding will make it possible to repay the recovery plans and thus to launch the ecological and digital transformation of our economy.
putting a tax on virgin plastics would be an even bigger incentive to reduce plastic waste and single-use plastics.
the tax on plastic waste and the simplification of the community vat system are a first step in this direction, but they are by no means sufficient.
the border carbon adjustment mechanisms and the digital tax are due to be ready by 1 january 2023, but this is not enough either.
i do not doubt the good faith of those who say that we are going to tax plastic to allocate the proceeds of this tax to the fight against pollution.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment.
as established in the interinstitutional agreement signed by the three institutions in november, the commission will also propose new own resources in june 2021 with a view to their introduction in 2023. as of today, they will be based on the emissions trading system, on the carbon border adjustment mechanism and on a digital levy.
the vote on the recommendation on the european union's own resources system will take place today, wednesday 24 march 2021. the reports on own resources based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste, as well as on certain aspects of gni own resources and on the collection of vat own resources, will be the subject of votes on amendments today, wednesday 24 march 2021, and the closing votes on thursday 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing.
but it is not just about creating another eu measure or taking a step forward in the fight against climate pollution.
we cannot therefore blindly support the acceleration of the eu ets emissions trading scheme.
we note that the introduction of climate legislation is without a real financial impact assessment, so it will be difficult for us to support this budget for 2022 in this respect.
the commissioner will admit, as the environment agency does, that europe is changing, that reality is changing, that the attitudes of citizens are changing, that we are changing transport, that we are implementing very expensive, complicated procedures, systems which are supposed to lead to cleaner air everywhere in europe.
madam president, pollution kills 450,000 people in the european union every year, costs us billions of euros in health care.
from a transport perspective, i have proposed in this report three solutions to reduce pollution.
we always say that the european union is a leader in the fight for a clean environment.
a network of pollution sensors is also missing.
the european union must help cities to have sustainable public transport, safe cycling infrastructure, electric charging stations and reduce the share of second-hand cars.
information and participation calls for a special role for civil society organisations, environmental activists and investigative journalists.
air pollution causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in europe each year, while air quality also affects the environment and biodiversity.
the more pollution, the less biodiversity.
and air pollution is not an isolated problem.
greenhouse gas emissions and particulate matter emissions are often linked and can be traced back to the same source.
we must, we say in the european parliament, we must get better at measuring emissions in europe so that we can intervene when the limit values are exceeded.
and then we must also ensure that we get stricter standards for emissions, for example in relation to the car industry.
but if we do, we will not only improve the health of millions of europeans, we will also improve our environment and secure the foundations for a much greater biodiversity.
we must do this, but when we do it we must do it together, because then it will have a real impact on the environment and on citizens throughout europe.
if it is true, as it is true, that air pollution is the main environmental threat to human health and that, according to the european environment agency, three quarters of the european urban population breathe harmful air, i can only express disbelief and indignation at this political myopia.
the report we are about to vote on calls for the inclusion of other air pollutants to be monitored and reduced, such as mercury, black carbon, ultrafine particulate matter, microplastics and ammonia - the latter emitted mainly by intensive farming, which the cap will continue to finance with public money.
we need to stop this and accelerate a radical change of course to protect our citizens' health, stop the climate crisis and produce healthy food.
we need transparency on private sector emissions data to build a relationship of trust between monitoring agencies, citizens, the private sector and the state.
it is one of the most important environmental and health challenges of our times.
on transport, in our sustainable and smart mobility strategy from last december, we set concrete milestones for the deployment of zero—emission vehicles by 2030, when we will have at least 30 million zero—emission cars and 80 000 zero—emission lorries in operation.
for the 2021–2027 period, the commission has proposed, within the cohesion policy fund, a greener and low—carbon europe.
one of the policy objectives includes reducing air pollution as a specific objective.
whenever we deal with transport, energy, industry, agriculture or urban development at whatever our level of policy—making responsibility, we have to learn to ask ourselves a key question – what does action in this sector mean for clean air?
they are associated with negative environmental and human health impacts, resulting in increased morbidity and mortality.
in poland, the predominant source of poor air quality is residential building heating systems, but also transport emissions in some areas of the country, especially in large cities.
the polish government supports local government administration, which has the best understanding of local socio-economic and environmental conditions.
further actions planned by the polish government, such as the 'clean air' strategic project implemented under the responsible development strategy and the priority programmes implemented by the national environmental and water fund (e.g.
ensuring improved air quality for eu citizens is underlined in the european green deal, through the union's commitment to act to reduce air pollution from major emission-generating sectors and to address the interconnected challenges of air pollution by adopting an action plan to reduce pollution to zero.
eu air quality directives have been effective in setting common eu air quality standards and facilitating the collection and exchange of air quality information, but have failed to reduce air pollution and its negative effects.
in this context, and taking into account the lessons learned from the covid-19 pandemic, i call on the commission to develop new air pollution policies and on member states to prioritise tackling air pollution in their national recovery plans in order to guarantee the health of citizens and increase resilience to future threats.
more than 80% of emissions of the pungent gas ammonia are directly related to the operation of the livestock sector.
these emissions have a direct impact on both the health and the quality of life of people whose homes are located near industrial livestock farms, because they are the ones who live in the clothes emitted by the farms every day.
so far, the commission and parliament have not been impressed by the environmental, climate and animal-law arguments for moving away from industrial farms.
air pollution is the biggest environmental health risk in europe, affecting regions, socioeconomic groups and age groups in different ways and causing more than 400 000 premature deaths per year, according to the latest eea estimates.
air pollution also causes respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, strokes, and cancer, and recent studies have also pointed to harmful effects on fertility, pregnancy, and newborns.
urban dwellers are the most affected by air pollution, and only one in ten people live in a city that meets who air quality guidelines.
air pollution has enormous human and economic costs, including shortening life expectancy, increasing healthcare costs, reducing productivity, and degrading ecosystems.
clear trends in reducing air pollution are particularly evident when policies are implemented in combination, and the commission should therefore work closely with national authorities in this regard.
it is the key to achieving the sustainability goals of the united nations' 2030 agenda.
the priorities outlined in our joint communication and in this report should help us spearhead a sustainable and inclusive global recovery linking the sustainable development goals to investment and depth relief.
we can tackle climate change and environmental degradation, reverse biodiversity loss and ensure food security, while at the same time focusing on job creation, human development and a comprehensive approach to migration.
in doing so we must continue to promote democracy, human rights, good governance and peace and security as prerequisites for sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
this design reflects the partnerships that structure strategy, partnerships for green tradition and access to energy, for digital transformation, for sustainable employment growth, for peace and governance and for migration and mobility, but it also reflects the principle that political and economic relations should be based on equality, on shared values with respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights and a genuine desire to build lasting relations that benefit both africa and the european union.
they justify the need for so-called aid on the ground, and all the things that the report focuses on, social development, improving the digital transformation, investment, economic growth, sustainable development, more efficient redistribution of the wealth that is generated, all of this shows that young africans, as the commissioner has often pointed out, that human capital, those young people, are the most important.
this must be based on trust and shared values, and together we must tackle shared problems such as climate change and the pandemic, both of which do not recognise any borders.
we have no time to waste.
we want to strengthen our cooperation in the areas of health and the environment, migration and, above all, education.
the strategy highlights the importance of sustainable agriculture, education, civil society and gender equality, and stresses the continued importance of efforts to achieve the un sustainable development goals and to combat climate change.
sustainable investment in local living conditions and the development of a continental free trade area is key to relations between the rest of the world and africa.
the major challenges facing new cooperation have been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic, highlighting the challenges facing africa today and the urgent need for assistance and cooperation for social and economic development, more effective redistribution of generated wealth, and acceleration of the digital and ecological transformation.
this is the approach the commission took when adopting the digital education action plan which is built around two priorities: the development of a high-performing digital education ecosystem and the enhancement of digital skills and competences for the digital transition.
in this communication, the commission identified a digitally skilled population, widespread high-speed connectivity and the need for an effective digital education ecosystem as part of the long-term vision for the third decade of the 21st century.
at european level, erasmus+, horizon europe, the connecting europe facility, digital europe and the cohesion fund support the creation of the digital education ecosystem and boost digital skills and competences.
while the report correctly underlines that more than 80% of marine waste stems from activities on land, we very much welcome the fact that the report covers both sea- and land-based sources of pollution.
all this waste is not only a direct threat to our oceans and seas and the rich biodiversity they host, but also to the future of the fishery sectors and thus of all fishermen and women who go to sea day-by-day and provide us with healthy food from the ocean.
only a clean, healthy, productive and biologically diverse marine environment can provide the basis for the important work of our fishers, shellfish gatherers, aquaculture producers and ultimately satisfy the needs of consumers.
both will contribute to a significant reduction of marine pollution in our seas.
firstly, with the legislation already in place and with the additional ambitious actions foreseen in the circular economy action plan, the biodiversity strategy in the upcoming zero-pollution action plan, we are addressing many, if not most, of your recommendations.
this means that a beach will need to have less than 20 litter items for every 100 metres of coastline to reach good environmental status.
building on these achievements, we will need to address the shortcomings we identify, notably concerning the determination of good environmental status, and further mainstream the directive’s objectives into other policies.
moreover, the zero-pollution action plan we are to adopt in may will strengthen our resolve to fight pollution of all kinds, including at sea, and to reduce it to levels that are no longer harmful for both humans and biodiversity.
we will address pollutants of emerging concern and we will also set up an integrated framework for zero-pollution monitoring and outlook.
the commission continues to lead efforts at international level to reach a global agreement on plastics, to prevent and reduce plastic pollution.
we are working towards the next session of the united nations environment assembly in february next year, where we hope that an intergovernmental negotiating committee will be established at the launch of the formal negotiation process.
we also adopted new rules on the export-import and intra-eu shipment of plastic waste following the agreement under the basel convention.
this is an important milestone in fighting plastic pollution.
the export of plastic waste is now only allowed under very strict conditions.
the export of unsorted plastic waste to non-oecd countries is completely banned.
we all have to join forces to ensure that our oceans remain clean and healthy so that they can continue to provide us with oxygen to absorb co2 and to be our ally in the fight against climate change, to feed us and to be the foundation of our coastal communities’ prosperity and our citizens’ well-being.
the vote will take place tomorrow, 25 march 2021.
the following is an extract from the report by mr cláudio monteiro de aguiar on the eu strategy for sustainable tourism [2020/2038 (ini) ] (a9-0033/2021).
this is a report with a clear path to sustainable tourism, to tourism of the future.
the commission shares your vision and goals for a sustainable, digital and resilient tourism ecosystem.
the pandemic has deeply disrupted europe’s tourism ecosystem, weakening its immediate ability to invest and rebound.
the eu has mobilised unprecedented emergency support for the tourism ecosystem and individual companies.
regarding the long—term perspective, the commission is fully mobilised to help restart the tourism ecosystem with concrete actions.
among the priorities, we are considering sustainable destination and tourism services, including an eu ecolabel and emas tourist accommodation.
the european year of rail is an excellent opportunity to boost sustainable ways of travelling and unlock new destinations when tourism can restart.
due to the pandemic, the investment needs of the tourism ecosystem are the highest among all the industrial ecosystems.
honourable members of parliament, protecting businesses and jobs will be at the heart of the eu’s agenda, as will our commitment to help rebuild resilient and sustainable tourism.
i am confident that together we can relaunch a stronger tourism ecosystem and maintain the european union as the world’s leading destination.
it can therefore potentially play a key role in combating climate change and make a significant contribution to the objectives and targets of the european green deal.
but let us not forget that climate policy and the associated energy transition have a very strong and inseparable socio-economic dimension.
the pursuit of climate neutrality in the european union requires many member states and their citizens to make concessions and sacrifices that they may not be prepared to make.
this is contrary to the fundamental right of member states to decide on their own 'energy basket'.
member states can achieve climate neutrality only within their capabilities and in their own individual way.
the next item is the joint debate on the european data strategy on: the report by mia petra kumpuli-natri on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the european data strategy (2020/2217 ((ini)) (a9-0027/2021) and the statement by the commission on the commission's report on the evaluation of the implementation of the general data protection regulation after two years of its application (2020/2717 ((rsp)).
i call the first part of the vote open, and you can vote until 12:15. the results of the first part of the vote will be announced at 2.30 p.m.
we return to the joint debate on the european data strategy on: the report by miapetra kumpuli-natri on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the european data strategy (2020/2217 (ini)) (a9-0027/2021) and the statement by the commission on the commission's report on the evaluation of the implementation of the general data protection regulation after two years of its application (2020/2717 (rsp)).
this is also a personal lesson for me and i want to draw from it the energy, the determination and the commitment to make this european pride - the rule of law, democracy, respect, equality and non-discrimination - more than ever a top priority, to advance this political project with the values to which we are all attached.
i repeat: for me, this trial, this difficulty, is also a lesson, a lesson that leads me to multiply my energy, to multiply my will.
for a year now, let us admit, we have not been immune from the difficulties and obstacles at the european level, whether it is this covid crisis, this need to commit to a credible and ambitious recovery fund, this climate commitment, too, for which the european union is showing the way to the rest of the world.
and that's how, in one year, we have moved the european union forward with this european budget, with this stimulus fund, with this climate commitment.
just a few years ago, just three years ago, only seven member states, in simiu, were in favour of this climate neutrality by 2050. this is the paradox: there is this image that is shocking, that is offensive, you said it forcefully, sometimes harshly, but with sincerity.
think about climate, but also think about geopolitics and how we can and should act together from democratic institutions against autocratic societies and regimes like china.
in the agreement - and i want to emphasize this today - we have ensured that high social and environmental standards apply in a level playing field.
i will now present the findings concerning two agencies: the european asylum support office and the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on wholesale energy market integrity and transparency).
it's a fund that's designed to help us tackle some of the most important challenges in an increasingly globalized world, and that's why it's good that it includes the ones that are most important to workers and to the community: the socioeconomic transformation, the transition to a low-carbon economy, the digital transformation, automation, brexit.
but the old adage is that very good solutions are the enemy of good solutions, and here, as a member of the committee on budgets, i see that big climate ideas can generate new unemployment again.
the biodiversity directive will certainly contribute to this, which will lead to a blockage of the eu's timber industry, and so we will have unemployment again and we will increase the globalisation adjustment fund again.
and it teaches us constantly that no political project can be sustainable unless it is based on shared values.
while judicial cooperation may not necessarily be in the forefront of the eu’s climate action, parliament secured that this programme ought also to support activities that respect the climate and environmental standards and priorities of the union and the ‘do no harm’ principle of the european green deal.
it can be used to train relevant stakeholders, and let me mention here that we have new emerging areas of law because our society is evolving in terms of technology and social systems and the like and we have newly emerging areas, for instance environmental justice, which the justice professionals have to understand better.
i mentioned the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) and i can add climate change.
and there is much we can do together in bilateral and multilateral cooperation, in the field of development, in combating climate change, in regulating globalisation, in defending security and peace.
but it is also time to take on the ambition of negotiating with india not only an investment agreement but also a trade agreement in favour of our economies and sustainable development.
our priorities in our relations with india are tackling climate change, respecting human rights, working for security and peace, and cooperating on health and fighting covid-19.
the main pillars of the programme must be coherent with each other, as this is the only way to contribute to sustainable digital social and economic development.
the life programme is an instrument for achieving environmental and climate objectives.
the implementation of this will be essential for the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy.
nevertheless, life is certainly the most important instrument to support the conservation of nature and biodiversity, which we care so much about.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that the life programme has made such a significant budgetary leap of over 60% at this stage and we also agree that more than 5 billion of the budget is being devoted to the areas of biodiversity, the circular economy, climate change and the energy transition.
the life program is 100% necessary: the commission has also proposed that the european environment agency should be established.
so we must move decisively towards the paradigm shift of the union's green deal: all sectoral policies are also environmental policies.
in this sense, when the life programme recognises the concept of one health, that human health also depends on environmental health, it is on the right track.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, the life programme, the agreement on which we are discussing today, is one of the european union's flagship actions, as it has so far led to the resolution of the most serious environmental problems throughout the european region.
i welcome and point out that the budget for this new life programme is 60% higher than in the previous phase and, as life is now a valuable tool for local government, it is now necessary at this mature stage to sign projects which visibly improve the environment and the quality of life of citizens.
such projects are supporting renewable energy sources, waste management with an emphasis on the circular economy, preserving and protecting biodiversity, but also improving air quality, a problem that is very much present in my city, in the region of western thessaloniki.
the fight against climate change cannot be achieved on the planet, it cannot be achieved in europe, without the mobilisation and contribution of our citizens.
i mostly support its environmental goals, the circular economy, energy efficiency, and most importantly, biodiversity.
however, it should be noted that the european discourse is dominated by a heavy emphasis on climate objectives and a marginalisation of biodiversity loss.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new life programme for 2021-2027 provides, as has been said, for a budget of over five billion for the achievement of climate and environmental objectives.
of this, about 2 billion is dedicated to climate.
well, these seem like important resources, but i think they're not enough for all the risk mitigation interventions that are needed to contain the effects of climate change.
unfortunately, the steady increase in global warming is causing a worrying rise in sea level, which for all coastal member states means coastal erosion, saltwater intrusion into the groundwater and loss of biodiversity.
this results in a progressive degradation of the ecological, social and economic functions of our coasts.
in italy, for example, on many stretches of the tyrrhenian sea and adriatic sea, climate change is altering the dunes and coastal ecosystems that are the mediterranean's signature landscape.
it is both good and important that we update the life programme so that it can continue to support sustainable nature projects.
in kerteminde, support has been provided to protect and make the urupdam nature area accessible in a responsible and sustainable way.
with the support of life, it is possible to restore the marine environment.
both projects demonstrate the importance of the life programme in helping to ensure and protect sustainable nature throughout europe for the benefit of citizens and crucial to the green transition.
we must do so with the utmost courage and ambition to overcome together the climate and environmental emergency that we face globally.
i am convinced that environmental groups and european citizens have this commitment to achieve it together.
we are giving a new direction to the environment also through the life programme.
stronger than ever for the next seven years, because citizens and we, together, want cleaner air, together we want cleaner and non-polluting energy, together we want smarter transport, together we want to protect biodiversity, both on land and in our seas.
and we strongly want a circular economy, where we reduce waste and turn it into a resource.
i am pleased that after long interinstitutional negotiations we have reached the point where we can adopt the life programme for the years 2021-2027. i support all pro-environmental initiatives and policies that aim to combat, mitigate and adapt to climate change, and promote clean energy and a circular economy.
the life programme has been in operation since 1992 and is an eu fund dedicated entirely to environmental and climate objectives.
in june 2018, the european commission proposed a new life regulation that will accelerate the transition to a clean, energy-efficient, low-carbon and climate-resilient circular economy, including the transition to clean energy, enhance the protection and improvement of the environment, and halt and reverse the process of biodiversity loss, contributing to sustainable development.
the proposal introduces new types of projects strategic nature projects and strategic integrated projects with a high potential to attract additional public and private funding, a sub-programme on the clean energy transition and combined actions.
it is important to me that the new life programme also accelerates the eu-wide target of at least 30% of spending on climate objectives.
the hydrogen economy is undoubtedly an important element in achieving a climate-neutral european economy.
firstly, once again in the debate on the energy policy of the european union, i would like to stress how important and extremely important it is for the member states and for the union as a whole to give each member state the opportunity to adapt to the requirements of the union in due time, taking into account the possibilities and the stage of transition that the country is going through.
in june, we finally vote on the climate law, which says first that we will achieve zero emissions by 2050 at the level of the european union.
in climate law, we talk about solidarity, we talk about shared responsibility, and we talk about each region being treated individually.
the just transformation fund is the first test of how we're going to implement climate law.
the just transition fund is an important tool for the energy transition - that's clear.
and you have to remember that the poorer, post-communist countries will have a very expensive, long and expensive road to energy transition.
in the last five years, poland has devoted more than 40 percent more to environmental protection than in previous years.
so we have a lot of expenditure, and poland's energy transition is 240 billion euros with four (unheard words) of just transition.
the just transition fund is one of the key elements of the green transition in both its energy and social dimensions.
this fund is primarily dedicated to sectors and communities inextricably linked to the mining industry, and is intended to compensate for the difficulties and to enable the creation of alternative career prospects for those affected by the new climate policy.
the commission has also provided information on the impact of the measures on the environment and on the impact of the measures on the environment.
indeed, the report highlights that the effects of climate change are weakening the prospects of developing countries, increasing the risk of drought, hunger, conflict, forced displacement, and amplifying and deepening existing threats.
it was stressed that action was needed, not only by the european union but also by those who are contributing most significantly to this climate change.
today we're going to focus on one of the elements, which is climate, which is deepening that sphere.
and now the question is, is climate change alone the effective remedy for poverty and empowerment of the most vulnerable people in developing countries?
i disagree with the argument that we should now support the idea of climate-related migration as a legal basis for asylum in migration policy.
if we are to make the trend towards zero pollution irreversible, the international community must give a structured global response.
overall, it is important that the industrial strategy also pays attention to the forestry industry and the opportunities it offers for our sustainable green growth.
today, we know that it is not only affected by the pandemic situation, but also by the rapid development of digitalization and our ambitious environmental goals.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy strategy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy.
madam president, in light of the post-pandemic challenges, it is important to focus on how we can fortify our industry in an extremely competitive and inter-dependent environment in key strategic sectors, taking into account that we have to avoid further carbon leakage.
batteries are the key component for the wider uptake, not only for immobility and renewables, but they are bound to become the catalyst to materialise the european green deal’s ambition, and that is to become climate neutral by 2050 and also to have companies become world leaders in clean products and technologies.
the second issue is that the post-pandemic recovery of the eu economy is a unique opportunity to achieve an industrial, green and sustainable transformation.
they're the ones who are really causing these poor people, who want a better life... we talked about the climate yesterday.
– mr president, the debate today testified to concerns and engagement regarding the impact of climate change on human rights.
addressing the climate emergency, protecting and preserving the planet is simply not an option, but an imperative responsibility for which we, as leaders and decision makers, are accountable to this and future generations.
for this reason, it is a top priority for the eu that an ambitious post—2020 global biodiversity framework is adopted at the convention on biological diversity, cop 15, in kunming, china, later this year.
i am very pleased that in the european parliament we are increasingly able not only to discuss climate change but also to try to prevent it.
climate change and continuous environmental degradation have a direct impact on freshwater resources, ecosystems and entire communities, and this in turn negatively affects the effective enjoyment of human rights, including the right to life, food security, safe drinking water and sanitation, health, housing, self-determination, work and development.
increasingly, the effects of climate change are not only felt by the least developed countries, although they are the ones most affected, but also by the highly developed countries, including many european countries.
it is very important that climate activists and indigenous peoples defending their territory receive adequate support and can count on justice when defending their territory and values.
our economies need extra revenue to invest in a sustainable recovery, and joe biden therefore advocates the end of the race to the bottom in taxation.
the fact that adults can also spend up to six months in another eu country as part of an erasmus+ exchange project and that citizens of all ages and backgrounds have the chance to learn professional and life skills in a multicultural environment is an additional chance to adapt to post-pandemic changes and the inevitable transition to a green and digital economy.
we want to preserve europe's cultural diversity in today's rapidly changing environment.
as regards the challenges, your report rightly stresses, among others, the importance of privacy protection, the fight against discrimination, the promotion of gender equality, respect for intellectual property rights, environmental protection and consumer rights.
after four councils in the last few days and four debates tonight, i would like to thank you again for the extraordinary energy i have felt tonight, and also to say that you can count on my support.
how do we overcome the most significant barriers third-country nationals face in the eu labour market and living environment?
the world's population is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050, with a huge population to feed and the eu's action on environmental policies promoting less extensive, organic farming with less production capacity.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, in particular by providing information on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
given the scale of the economic challenge of competing with non-eu economies, it is crucial that the regulatory and investment frameworks are well aligned so that national institutions and businesses can work to the benefit of the european ecosystem as a whole and national economies.
madam president, environmental damage causes significant risks to human health and life.
yet our european environmental liability rules are not only outdated but also applied in a sporadic manner to the detriment of the environment and, often, of companies with a sustainable business model – but to the benefit of those who act as though there were a planet b. well, there isn’t, and we have to act accordingly.
we need a proper revision of our environmental liability laws.
very often, we hear that eu policy on environmental matters is ‘too ambitious’.
well, in our times, environmental ambition is not only a necessity; it is a matter of self-preservation.
indeed, we must be very careful when increasing the competences of ngos, because they have full rights, and are also heavily financed by the european union, and have the opportunity to develop and assert their rights, to take care of order, society and the environment.
such an important issue as access to justice in environmental matters and our compliance with international law deserves our full attention and our frankness.
access to justice in environmental matters is more important than ever and is for the eu indeed a matter of credibility and legitimacy.
without the participation of civil society and the control by organisations of the environmental activities of public institutions, environmental protection will not be effective.
and these decisions have huge direct consequences for the health, quality of life and daily functioning of these people, preventing the exercise of the right to a clean environment and other human rights.
climate change is making climate disasters more and more common.
they want to be part of climate change, part of digitizing their companies.
i firmly believe that this gallop towards the big climate targets that have been prepared here, also in parliament, must be slowed down, because otherwise, if we act disproportionately towards small and medium-sized enterprises, the requirements that have been prepared here will simply kill more small and medium-sized enterprises.
a biodiversity strategy is very important, very important for the future of the world, for the future of nature, of nature.
the biodiversity strategy does not indicate the sources of funding.
and finally, the strategy includes elements that we've already discussed and that we've already written into climate law.
biodiversity is access to clean water and clean air.
biodiversity is about materials and raw materials, it's about food security, and most importantly, it's about the health of animals and us humans.
finally, we have a strategy with many uncertainties, no environmental, social and economic impacts of implementation - and yet very ambitious goals to achieve!
my country, poland, is a country with a high level of biodiversity in europe, where protected areas represent over 30% of the land area, where populations of many species, such as otters, bison, beavers, are being restored.
so we can effectively protect biodiversity.
we cannot allow food to be imported from third countries with lower environmental standards.
that would be a loss globally, not a benefit to the environment and the climate.
this is extremely dangerous for the continuity of sustainable forest management in individual countries.
agriculture, in particular industrial livestock and pastureland production, is the most important cause of environmental degradation, negative land use change and habitat destruction, accounting for 80% of all land use change in the world.
to avoid further deforestation, the extinction of valuable species, or the increasing pollution of the environment, we must move away from the still-existing "standard" of cheap, unhealthy, and unethical food.
we are open to this discussion because we are aware of the challenges facing the union, but we do not agree to take away the revenue from emissions trading from countries, because this would deprive for example poland of budget revenues, which are entirely earmarked for the fight for a better climate.
the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. this means restructuring the current economic model of some countries and moving away from low-cost sources of energy derived from their own natural resources, such as coal, which may weaken economies rather than rebuild them.
they have to pay for climate change, they have to pay for an increasing aging population and perhaps also for new crises.
we owe it to them to spend that money on setting a sustainable direction for the society we pass on.
we agreed that the money would contribute to our climate goals.
so, because more democracy never hurt, we emphasize the following: first, member states' plans should aim to support those in need - public health, workers, young people, vulnerable groups, culture, smes, the environment, etc.
in romania, the right-wing government politicized the plan, proposing an austerity agenda with pension and wage freezes, possible tax increases, and anti-social and even anti-environmental reforms.
the commission is determined to use the facility’s full potential to emerge stronger from the crisis and ensure a sustainable future for all people and member states of the european union.
we will not approve any plan that does not meet the 37% climate and 20% digital spending requirements.
education and skills, labour market reforms and adequate and sustainable social protection systems are only a few examples.
in this context, and without prejudice to the absolute urgency in implementing the plans, the scrutiny of the european parliament, as an institution legitimised by the direct vote of citizens, in particular the scrutiny of the continuous evaluation by the european commission and the council, is an asset to ensure coherence and promote synergies that reinforce europe's commitments to the green deal, the green, democratic and inclusive digital transition, sustainable growth, territorial cohesion, convergence and the realisation of the pillar of social rights.
i think of global challenges such as terrorism, climate change, pandemics, disarmament or the management of migration flows.
dialogue, cooperation and rules against the logic of competition between great powers, to address the historical challenges of the united nations - basically building peace and preventing conflict - but also new challenges: to combat climate change, to protect global public health or, now, to coordinate effectively in the fiscal field.
it also underlines our unity on what matters the most: the need for an international order where every person and every person’s dignity and fundamental rights are protected, where we make a sustainable use of our planet, preserving its ecosystems and resources for future generations, where peace and prosperity for all are ensured.
i share this parliament’s concern about the global pandemic and the access to covid-19 vaccines in many parts of the world and the need for a sustainable and inclusive recovery that leaves no one behind.
leading our neighbours and other international partners to european policies in the field of research, climate change or energy supply, for the design of the digital economy, is to strengthen our networking and cooperation.
with the global europe programme, we are making additional commitments and strengthening our commitment to climate, nature and the environment.
and we are strengthening our investment resources to mobilise private and entrepreneurial initiative for sustainable economic development.
by devoting most of its resources to combating climate change, it is standing up for the right of future generations to live in decent conditions.
these include education and health, democracy and good governance, peace, the fight against climate change, digitalisation and inclusive and sustainable growth.
ndici – global europe will be our most powerful tool to support a sustainable recovery, which puts youth and women in the driving seat.
through the european fund for sustainable development plus (efsd+), we will scale up private investments towards achieving the sustainable development goals.
also thanks to this house, we have introduced more ambitious targets for spending on official development assistance, gender, climate and biodiversity.
as greens we are also satisfied with the targets established in the regulation – the 93% oda, 85% for actions having gender as a principle or significant objective, 30% climate – and also to have a specific biodiversity target.
the second thing is the climate.
finally, it wastes precious resources which we desperately need to face global challenges such as economic recovery and, above all, the ecological and solidarity transition.
on climate, the impetus is european and it is high time the us administration made a concrete commitment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
we need female politicians’ voices and perspectives in order to ensure gender—responsive policies and a fair and sustainable recovery.
today, in the 21st century, civilisation is often assessed in accordance with how we respect the environment, and in accordance with how the civilisation respects all beings.
it will also be a strong marker for a non-concentrationist, more sustainable, more humane, more citizen-centred agriculture.
we all know by now that industrial farming is a major contributor to animal suffering and to damage to our health and the climate.
long-term financial support instruments are needed for organisations that provide a friendly environment for families raising children with autism.
already we see that the lack of a mutual recognition agreement negatively influenced the medical devices sector, and we can expect future problems in the machinery, agriculture and energy sectors.
the absurd target of climate neutrality by 2050 is imposed.
absurd, since the union is responsible for only 9% of global co2 emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels and at the same time an obligation is imposed to use 30% of the union budget for this purpose, and in the case of the cohesion fund even 37%.
my country is finalising preparations to use this huge flow of investment funds: 9 national programmes, 16 regional programmes and support for 6 regions, including greater poland with the largest eu budget for energy transition.
this is a significant aid for the polish mining regions, which will bear the greatest costs of the energy-economic transformation.
it is with great concern that i have been watching the radicalization of political attitudes about the pace and extent of climate change.
we all agree that we need to protect the climate, but let's do it in a rational and realistic way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the €613 million loan obtained from a chinese institution for a coal-fired power station in tuzla, even though this industry is still heavily subsidised, also links bosnia and herzegovina to the new silk road promoted by beijing in defiance of european energy standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
on top of the exchanges of good practice i mentioned earlier, the commission provides full support to member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education.
on the one hand, left-wing and environmental activists are pushing for a ban on the killing of chicken embryos because they can feel pain, and on the other hand, the same activists are now demanding that the european parliament (in violation of eu treaties and international law) recognise the right to abortion as a human right.
climate law is an important document.
i would remind you that we had to recall the fundamental values that will determine whether we will implement climate law together - solidarity, european solidarity, shared responsibility, among others.
just a few hours before the negotiations on zero emissions by 2050 were concluded, we were not talking at the european level, we were talking at the level of each member state.
and i think what peter liese said about the sinks, we should be concerned about, we should build a coalition, we should put a lot of work into the sinks, because it seems to be absolutely crucial when it comes to zero emissions.
commissioner, i want to remind you how the lawyers evaluated both climate law and the impact assessment.
without money, we can't pass climate legislation, and that's what we have in the multi-year financial framework or the reconstruction fund.
i don't know if you know, but two weeks ago, a week and a half ago, switzerland voted on their climate law, too.
then we can implement climate law.
european climate law provides the foundation for further climate policy and a good legal basis for achieving the european union's climate neutrality target by 2050. the draft is a balanced text that reconciles many points of view.
in implementing energy and climate policies, we must listen carefully to the voices of experts and scientists.
however, the european parliament initiated the european climate council during the negotiations on european climate law.
however, even before the creation of this body and before the plenary vote, we are already seeing attempts to extend its mandate, as defined in the text, towards the creation of a super-body, an oracle, which is to deal with all, even the most detailed, activities beyond the council's competence at european level, from energy infrastructure to agriculture and beyond.
we have climate law.
it's a sign of solidarity in action, because we have different starting points and different options for action, for example in renewable energy or climate efficiency.
for example, the emissions trading system must provide opportunities for our industry.
we must also provide opportunities for a border carbon tax.
today we are voting on european climate law, which will become an essential part of our lives and the basis for all key legislative proposals, both in the 'fit for 55' package and beyond.
those who want to do more must be rewarded and given the necessary resources to achieve climate goals.
it is our responsibility to ensure that climate law provides the investment in new technologies necessary for this change, including green hydrogen, efficient batteries and the recovery of valuable resources from waste.
let me be clear: climate change is real, and we're all paying for it.
we are adopting today the framework for the world's most ambitious project to combat climate change.
to achieve this, we need to completely re-engineer the european economy to become carbon-neutral in the next 25 years.
exporting production outside the european union, and thus emissions, would mean a big loss for the whole project.
but climate legislation is only the first, largely symbolic step.
from how we're going to reduce emissions in industry, in transport, how we're going to change the emissions trading system, to how we're going to introduce a cap on carbon.
fighting climate change is a shared responsibility for all of us to protect our world.
the adoption of the eu climate regulation is an important step in this process.
it's important to stop the left's unrealistic ambitions to turn climate policy into a debate.
climate action should be based on cooperation and agreements between member states and should not lead to a reduction in the competences of nation states.
the costs of climate action should therefore not be passed on to people, families and businesses through the price of food and energy needed to sustain life.
as europeans call for more action to protect our planet and companies adjust to the new reality that climate change brings, our policy—making needs to keep up.
the commission’s proposal for a european green deal and the 2030 climate target for reduction of net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% are welcome steps in this regard.
the agreement that we are voting on during this mini—plenary session makes several positive and forward—looking steps: fixing the 2030 target for net 55%, making the 2050 climate—neutrality target a collective target on an eu level, the composition of a climate advisory board, non—binding sectorial roadmaps, climate partnerships and battery and hydrogen alliances.
it is not enough to merely talk about the need for a sustainable future, we must outline how we plan to get there and then take concrete steps in that direction.
the agreement on the european climate law is a positive development in bringing about a sustainable resilient future for our citizens.
i welcome the interinstitutional agreement on the climate law.
the agreement strengthens the european framework for climate action by introducing, inter alia, the following elements: - an overall objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050; - an ambitious 2030 climate target of at least a 55% reduction in net emissions compared to 1990, specifying the contribution of emission reductions and removals; - a commitment to negative emissions beyond 2050; - the establishment of a european scientific advisory committee on climate change, which will provide independent scientific advice; - stricter provisions on adaptation to climate change; - strong coherence between union policies and the objective of climate neutrality; - a commitment to initiate dialogue with various sectors to prepare sectoral roadmaps to chart the path to climate neutrality in different areas of the economy.
after months of work and negotiations, parliament will vote to approve eu climate law.
unfortunately, climate law is neither satisfactory nor consistent with scientific knowledge.
moreover, although we have been talking about the need for change in the energy and transport sectors since the beginning of the european green deal, we still avoid talking about the livestock industry.
the ambitious goals set by the ec in its 'from the field to the table' strategy to achieve a sustainable food production and consumption system are becoming increasingly unlikely to be achieved.
we will not achieve climate neutrality by 2050 if we continue to turn a blind eye to the industry responsible for 14.5 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions on earth.
it is time for politicians to stop working with the livestock barons and protecting their interests, saying that they are protecting the interests of farmers, and actually take care of the environment, biodiversity, climate, human rights and animal rights.
the public sector loan facility, which i worked on, is another mechanism that will support a just energy transition in europe and in poland.
these are very important words, but when we look at the whole of the energy transition and we see the great haste in pursuing this transition, we also have to see in the future the crisis of industry in the european union, the crisis of companies in the european union.
remember, as one dutch politician said, it's not just wind that is driving renewable energy, but also subsidies and grants from individual countries.
res is expensive, res renewable also generates unemployment.
how much energy can you extract from these plants?
who knows what the future will bring with this problem of this energy transition gallop?
the european union has set itself very ambitious targets: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and becoming climate neutral by 2050. of course, we all agree that we must protect the environment for future generations and progressively minimize the impact on civilization and on nature.
unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for the climate change debate to make sense for future generations, it needs to be more realistic, and instead of an ambitious adjective, a general, optimal and useful term must dominate.
the most important thing is that we all have a responsibility to protect the environment without harming people, because it is easy to be an environmentalist living here in brussels, but much more difficult to be one living in a small mining community.
you've probably read the report on climate law, which talks about the effects of impact.
not only has it been criticized by the parliamentary services, but it clearly shows that there will be unemployment and energy poverty, and there is no money in the system for a just transition.
because the european commission is saying, "close in a year, close in two years", even though we agreed that we are talking about zero emissions in 2050.
on behalf of the ppe group.
law and justice, my political environment in the european conservatives and reformists group, of course, believes that every euro should be spent transparently and that any criminal who commits fraud or embezzlement, whether he is a white-collar criminal or a politician, should be prosecuted and held accountable.
and we must fight poverty in old age and, above all, ensure that there are adequate and sustainable pensions, especially widow's pensions.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by peter van dalen on the impact of offshore wind farms and other renewable energy systems on the fisheries sector (2019/2158 (ini)) (a9-0184/2021).
slovenia is now the fifth safest country in the world, and we are ninth in terms of sustainable development.
from poland's perspective, work on the 'fit for 55' climate and energy package will be particularly important.
in our view, the key elements of the package include: the revision of the ets; the objectives of the common effort to reduce (cer); the revision of the regulation on land use emissions and utilisation, land use change and forestry (lulucf).
i fully support the trio's position that demographic change is at least as significant as the challenges of climate change and digital transformation and should therefore be treated by the european union with equal commitment.
agriculture is a major priority for slovenia, but once again we seem to be focusing on the situation of farms, including industrial farms, and neglecting the environment and animal welfare.
but our adversaries should remember that without gas as a transitional fuel, we will never achieve climate neutrality.
without gas, there will be no green deal, but a black despair as energy supplies begin to plummet, electricity bills skyrocket, and paralysed eu industry is pushed to the margins of the global economy.
i am very pleased that, after many months of legislative work, we are witnessing the re-entry into force of the flagship connecting europe facility (cef), which, with a budget of over eur 30 billion, will have an impact on the development of europe's cross-border transport, energy and digital infrastructure.
the main objectives of the programme will contribute to the development of transport infrastructure linked to the ten-t core network, which will make european transport safer, more multimodal and more sustainable, connecting all regions of the european union and strengthening european integration.
a very important aspect of the programme will also be to support innovation in the fields of energy transport and advanced digital solutions, so that europe's development goes hand in hand with reducing the environmental impact of transport, increasing energy efficiency and improving the safety of the citizens of the union.
the four priorities that the eu has identified from the start of the crisis remain: first, to secure humanitarian access; second, to call all parties to protect civilians and to avoid further human rights violations; third, to ensure the withdrawal of eritrean troops from tigray; and, fourth, to establish a political dialogue for a sustainable solution.
however, i do not agree that it is as relevant today as it was in 1951. one of the factors driving millions of people to migrate is the increasing climate change.
but there is no category of climate refugees in international law.
the definition of refugee in the 1951 convention does not apply to people displaced for environmental reasons.
i therefore call for this anniversary to be an incentive to create and recognise an international definition of climate refugee, which will allow for the adoption of legislation to facilitate the procedure for granting refugee status to those who are fleeing, among other things, rising water levels.
today, as the european union, we are creating the asylum, migration and integration fund, a fund to help those who have been forced to leave their homes, their communities, for various reasons: war, catastrophic climate change, economic situation.
do you really want to deal with the next pandemic, climate catastrophe, putin and china on your own?
we have talked about the fact that when citizens are with us, we will be able to achieve the right objectives that the rapporteur has spoken about here, but we cannot tell the citizens of europe, the poles and the poles, that by 2025 we must close all energy-intensive plants and enterprises, because that is what we say, by banning subsidies by 2025. finally, what we really care about: the amendment that says that everything should be clear and transparent.
the eighth environment programme, which runs until 2030, aims to accelerate the transition to a climate-neutral, resource-efficient, clean and circular economy in a fair and socially inclusive manner and to achieve the environmental objectives of the un 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals.
while this seems a legitimate aim, the attempt to include in the report the need to phase out all subsidies for fossil fuels at eu, national, regional and local level by 2025 at the latest makes the report unacceptable from the point of view of countries such as poland, where fossil fuels are a large part of the energy mix today and gas is set to be a bridge to the wider use of renewable energy sources in the future in the coming years.
taking care of the environment for the benefit of future generations is our duty and our great responsibility - we all agree.
however, this 8th eu environment programme to 2030, which sets very ambitious targets for good reason, needs to be improved, clarified and supplemented in many respects.
the important thing is the issue of biodiversity, which is our heritage.
it is important to promote multifunctional and sustainable forest management, to maintain a balance between natural, social and economic functions, and to use this potential to achieve environmental and climate objectives and ambitions.
i would also point out that the priority objectives should be supplemented directly by waste management issues and that the definitions should be clear and very precise.
well, there are only three stable sources of energy: gas, atomic and coal.
so i ask you: how does a country like poland build its energy system?
everyone should care about energy, but, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing today is not to turn green policy into a policy that many people will cry about instead of rejoice about.
the radicalisation of eu climate policy is making us increasingly dependent on new and future technologies.
first, we must meet the demands of sometimes overly radical and stringent environmental standards, which are also beginning to threaten our energy security.
third, and most important, is to ensure the security of energy supply.
although my view on this subject is not very popular in this house, i would like to suggest once again that we need to promote zero-emission technologies and carbon capture and storage in our research and innovation programmes.
i’m very pleased to see that there seems to be a broad agreement amongst most members and groups of this house that we need to urgently step up our efforts to tackle climate change and the loss of biodiversity in one of the most vulnerable regions, which is the southern ocean.
your voices clearly reflect the calls of our citizens for more and decisive action on climate change and biodiversity loss.
all eu goals that are established in the biodiversity strategy are driven by the best available scientific advice.
the preparation process for the 15th meeting of the states parties to the convention on biological diversity, which will set global biodiversity targets for 2030 and 2050, including marine protected areas, will also provide an opportunity for this.
accordingly, in response to climate change and the loss of biodiversity in arctic waters, the european union must continue to work towards establishing a representative network of marine protected areas.
this is essential to protect the delicate ecosystem of antarctica and its surrounding waters.
i would also like to take this opportunity to underline the importance which the european union attaches to multilateral cooperation on environmental matters in general and to reaffirm the european union's commitment to multilateral solutions to global challenges in the field of conservation of natural resources and biodiversity, including those brought about by climate change.
climate change is causing warming to be more intense in the polar regions of the earth, causing serious environmental problems.
the napas are special and sensitive areas, which are particularly vulnerable to potential environmental impacts.
in addition to climate change, the pressure to use natural resources is increasing.
protected areas would play an important role in meeting global biodiversity and climate commitments.
i have long been a proponent of a specific arctic environmental impact assessment, which uses longer-term timeframes to assess the impact of projects and also takes into account the cumulative effects of impacts and the rights of indigenous peoples to use the area.
first, i am glad to note that the commission and the econ committee entirely agree on the near-term priorities for fiscal policy, namely to continue an expansionary fiscal stance for as long as is needed to support the recovery as well as the necessary transition of our economies, followed by a reorientation of fiscal policies aimed at fiscal sustainability in the medium term.
second, on the fiscal rules, the report correctly highlights the sharp increase in public debt in the eu since the start of the pandemic and the need to ensure country-specific pace of debt reduction that safeguards both fiscal sustainability and sustainable inclusive growth.
the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) will play a key role in this regard but member states must also seek to protect nationally financed public investment without jeopardising debt sustainability.
the report rightly stresses that further efforts are needed to improve the quality of public finances so as to improve the country’s long-term debt sustainability and enhance the long-term growth potential.
i am pleased to see that we found strong support to base our recommendation on the proposal of the european fiscal board, which sets growth of expenditures as a key variable to reach the ultimate goal that is debt sustainability.
i believe that this framework will be a significant improvement compared to the current situation, and it will contribute to the sustainability and stability of the eu economy, which can easily be harmed by irresponsible and unsustainable fiscal policy of the member states.
we have the climate transition, the digital transition and the improvement of social conditions to reduce the poverty and inequality that this crisis is creating.
and the proposal in this report, which has been led by margarida marques and the other rapporteurs, is timely, it aims to make individual analyses of debt sustainability, with a monitoring instrument, and i hope that the commission and the council will hear this report, read it and start that debate which is so necessary for the european citizens.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a 'polycrisis': a health crisis, an ecological crisis, a social crisis, an economic crisis.
i say again: unsuited to the challenges we face - i am thinking of the climate emergency and especially the social emergency.
the european debt brake prevents the necessary public investment to make eu member states resilient and sustainable.
today, however, there is a general acceptance that investment and structural reforms are needed to achieve competitiveness and sustainable growth.
but we need to continue to have an aggressive public investment policy to stabilise the recovery, to reduce unemployment and to tackle the challenges of climate change.
the common, sustainable fiscal policy is an important hallmark of the eu and must not be misused at the expense of individual states for national party politics in some countries.
so while the stability pact is suspended, we must find new, more realistic, simpler, more insightful and flexible rules on deficits and debts, and add new indicators, social and climate.
we are now moving forward with the reform of the stability pact, which takes into account a new golden rule for social and environmental investment and for inclusive digitalisation, so that it becomes a sustainability pact.
and, of course, tomorrow parliament will be calling on the commission to be ambitious in reviewing the rules, and to ensure that we can once and for all have rational economic policy instruments for one very important thing too: to have the resources to make the investment necessary to make the ecological transition.
we need flexible rules, enhancing our growth potential and increasing sustainable public and private investment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its impact on the environment.
it is worth emphasising that the sensitivity of young people to the issue of respect for the environment, combined with the provision of appropriate knowledge and skills, can help prepare a new generation of fishermen for the role of guardians of the sea and its resources.
i think december 2020 is a historic december, when the whole of the european union agreed to zero emissions by 2050 at the european union level, with the consumers in mind, in a solidarity, in a responsible way, showing the different ways of reaching the goal in the individual countries of the european union.
so we have to make sure that they're not the ones who are energy poor.
already 50 million citizens of the european union are living in energy poverty.
frans timmermans, in answer to my question, expressed his satisfaction that the ets prices are rising and that this is directly reflected in energy prices.
at the same time, when we agreed and we wrote in the climate law that we would absorb, we almost eliminated artificial absorbers, they are only mentioned in the climate law in the preamble.
it seems to be the fastest, fairest way to achieve zero emissions.
on the one hand, we have a noble goal: the protection of the climate, the future of our planet (this is certainly one of the most important challenges we face), but on the other hand, this noble goal must be achieved by the degradation of the european economy, by the loss of jobs, by the steady increase in the poverty of millions of europeans and the degradation of entire regions.
the political, economic and technological mobilization to achieve climate goals is unprecedented in our history.
with the fit for 55 package, the european commission has outlined the way the european union should achieve climate neutrality.
scientists suggest that even with efforts like those currently being made in europe, humanity simply cannot slow climate change.
secondly, mr president, i would ask you to look at what climate policy is already doing to the economy.
record carbon prices leading to energy market price increases, power shortages and power outages.
ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of small businesses, on behalf of middle-income families, on behalf of indebted households who cannot afford another wave of... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, we know that the planet is on the verge of the point of no return as far as climate change is concerned.
firstly, as regards the extension of the emissions trading scheme to transport and buildings, we must be careful that it does not have a social impact on the most vulnerable.
secondly, we need sufficient compensation mechanisms, which is why the social climate fund is such an important tool.
in short, we must put the citizens at the centre of our concerns now that we have to negotiate the package, in order to sustain their support for this process in a sustainable way.
even in the most optimistic scenario, where we achieve zero emissions by 2050, yes, warming can actually have catastrophic consequences for humanity, and we must and must respond to that.
we are discussing today a very ambitious package of solutions to bring the european union to climate neutrality and significant emission reductions by 2030. as europeans, we can be proud of what we have already done to protect the climate and of the plans we have.
we have little choice but to rebuild the european union's economy to protect the climate and to restore our economy's competitiveness after the pandemic crisis.
i agree with the commissioner that it is not too late, that we can build a low-carbon, competitive economy.
only rapid systemic change can prevent the climate crisis from worsening.
this will not happen unless the impact of the livestock sector on the climate and the environment is taken seriously by the legislators.
animal agriculture is destroying biodiversity, the environment and is causing a climate catastrophe.
the sector is responsible for around 12·17% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions.
the carbon dioxide emissions alone are higher than the sum of the annual co2 emissions of four countries: poland, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia.
the commission has no problem talking about reforming the energy and transport sectors, but it has no courage to propose the necessary changes in the agricultural sector.
there is also a lack of solutions that would ensure the necessary reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from livestock farming under the package ready for 55. this clearly shows that the commission does not take seriously the alarm raised by scientists.
and our chances of stopping climate catastrophe are getting smaller by the day.
in the european union, it is not enough to shout about climate change, about reducing the risk of natural hazards.
eu cohesion policy funds, funds for the regions, as well as additional resources in the economic recovery fund, national economic recovery plans are needed to ensure a genuine resilience policy so that the transition to a low-carbon economy is achieved, so that the country can transform its infrastructure to be more resilient to natural disasters and to recover quickly after a natural disaster.
a global policy that is not focused on saber-rattling and one-sided national interests, but that looks at how people can live freely in their own self-determination, how we can strengthen the un's sustainability goals and how we can tackle the real causes of the crisis.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the the memory of this event still gives me an immense feeling of solidarity with the victims.
during our visit last week, we witnessed dramatic images from across the country with thousands of people forced to live in dire conditions with shortages of fuel and energy supplies and terrible consequences for the national health care system.
it is now time to be positive, to focus on the reforms required to steer the country, to fight corruption with determination, to grant stability and a sustainable recovery.
to present options for additional restrictive measures, to develop options for engagement on areas such as climate, environment, selected issues of foreign and security policy, and multilateral issues like the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), where i have to recognise that russia is playing a constructive role on syria and libya.
we must stand together to defend the european union's defence, energy, cyber security policies and our values.
yes, the union should be for europeans and the poles as europeans also expect to be active in climate policy, because this is a great challenge.
we have a pandemic behind us and a digital and climate transition ahead.
finally, we insist on the introduction and implementation of the mandatory due diligence rules aimed at all companies in the eu market whose actions cause harm to the environment, workers and human rights.
we now have the money, but the policies we adopt and the kind of business environment we create will determine how we emerge from the crisis, and how quickly.
the approach we take on digital and climate transitions are key.
we all want to protect the environment, but we have to take into account the impact on the lives of our citizens.
it was a mistake to include private houses in the emissions trading system (ets), and we need to fix it.
serious changes to the stability pact on deficits and debts, so as to support sustainable economic growth and social cohesion and avoid a new debt crisis and a new savage austerity in the european south.
more ambitious targets to tackle the climate crisis, as scientists are calling for, and a stronger community budget with new own resources.
we are in the midst of a meta-crisis inherent in the capitalist system - social and economic crisis, ecological crisis, political crisis.
our political group, through our president iratxe garcía, has already put forward a first set of strong political proposals, from the anti-poverty law to the reform of tax rules, a social rights framework, respect for human rights and the real transformation of the european semester, based on sustainable welfare rather than on gdp alone.
but you will also have to strengthen the union's strategic autonomy and to do so, participate in the reform of the global multilateral system by reactivating, among other things, the wto; to pave the way for a genuine transformation of our agricultural and food model and, more broadly, of our economic, social and ecological system; the commission will also continue to support the development of a european strategy for gender equality, in close connection with the global agenda of the un sustainable development goals.
the list of issues to be addressed is long: social inequality, violence against women, lgbtiq rights and climate catastrophe.
the fight against climate disaster requires ambitious goals and swift action.
it doesn't take much courage to be in the energy and transportation sectors.
in your speech last year you spoke of a balance between financial support to member states and sustainable public investment.
this is necessary for the climate package, but also for reducing social inequalities.
also, make sure that financial markets can be a driving force behind sustainable growth and so don't let the hawks shout too loud.
when it comes to sustainability, i also ask for attention to be paid to social sustainability.
i was also encouraged to hear your words on digitalisation, semiconductors and the carbon-neutral economy.
this year, the challenges we all face are unique: tackling the health and economic crisis caused by covid-19, climate change, the digital agenda and the conference on the future of europe are among the most important.
we are talking about poland's problems again in the european parliament, instead of talking about the future, about development, about strengthening the community, instead of looking for ideas on how to protect the european economy, how to fight social inequalities, how to counteract the climate catastrophe, we are talking about poland again.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
let's not waste this opportunity.
this complex situation should lead the commission to undertake a comprehensive review of all the latest strategies and programmes, such as green deal, next generation eu, fit for 55, farm to fork, biodiversity, and to examine whether their cumulative effect, while beneficial for the environment, will not be detrimental to the viability and, consequently, the future level of agricultural production in the european union.
it should be noted that the european union is the world's largest donor to food security, spending billions of euros a year on global food security, strengthening resilience to crises and improving sustainable agricultural development, including in third countries.
here in europe, we incentivise the more sustainable producers to reduce to allow the intensive to drive on.
mercosur puts sustainable food systems second when countries like germany and france and others want to sell more cars.
if the eu wants to contribute to sustainable food systems, then it needs to start by getting its own house in order, put an end to mercosur, put an end to profiteering from the production of weapons, which lead to chaos and famine.
agricultural production is highly dependent on weather and climate conditions and is therefore one of the most vulnerable sectors.
in this context, the biggest challenge will be for the agricultural sector in the european union and worldwide to adapt to climate change, which requires adopting practices with minimal impact on the environment.
farmers around the world will therefore face a double challenge: first, to achieve high yields, and second, to protect nature and biodiversity, which can only be achieved through the implementation of innovative technologies.
at the same time, we must be aware of the difficulties faced by small and medium-sized farmers in developing sustainable farms or structures.
their importance is overwhelming in the agricultural ecosystem and in what it means to fight hunger, but without the implementation of modern, applied and advanced technologies that allow high-quality production, these farms will not be able to survive.
today, many farmers, especially small and medium-sized farmers, cannot afford to buy them, which makes it necessary to partner in agriculture to develop sustainable agricultural systems, and the member states and the european commission need to financially stimulate this.
the climate change or the covid-19 pandemic.
by giving in to ultra-liberalism in its trade agreements, it has diverted some countries from sustainable agricultural practices from which they derive their livelihoods: our milk powder has ruined dairy farms in senegal, our frozen chickens have destroyed chicken farms in ghana... we must replace this free trade, which leads to economic and social decline, by the development of diversified food systems based on respect for local agriculture.
another problem we need to address is food waste.
there was no will to have such a discussion when there was a real chance that we could block with the help of our american allies this project that is undermining the energy solidarity of the european union, which is the nord stream 2 project.
biodiversity is essential to life.
the commission's report focuses on the need to address the root causes of biodiversity loss and restore ecosystems.
the report highlights the positive aspects of the dependence of agri-food systems and smallholder farmers on biodiversity; the recognition of the rights of indigenous peoples and their knowledge and experience in combating biodiversity loss and environmental degradation; and the fact that environmental crime is a global threat to nature conservation and sustainable development, stability and security.
we do not support the inclusion of the right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment in the charter of fundamental rights, the introduction of a system of criminal sanctions and multilateral environmental agreements.
but i also argue that we should go further: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we have to offer a vision to the world of a better future, including climate responsibility, infrastructure development, health, solidarity, fair and open trade and peace instead of arms races.
relations that should be based on democratic dialogue and have as a basis for cooperation issues that are fundamental to the most urgent problems we face today, such as the fight against inequalities, such as the fight for gender equality, the fight against racism, human rights or climate change.
the success of our agreement, the success of our cooperation relations, should be the success of achieving objectives such as the sustainable development objectives, for example.
we are committed to maintaining good relations with the united states to prevent the covid-19 pandemic, protect the environment, and strengthen trade, investment and technological cooperation.
this results in a climate of fear and self—censure of the relief actors.
we're talking about the effects on the environment, the economy and security.
it recorded an investment deficit of €161 billion in 2020, which had negative consequences for the entire tourism ecosystem, and therefore, by extension, for millions of workers employed directly or indirectly by this sector, as i mentioned earlier.
following the conclusions on the resumption of summer travel, what measures does the commission intend to take to support the tourism ecosystem, in particular to alleviate the uncertainties faced by travellers, but also tourism-related businesses, in relation to travel restrictions?
mr breton, i know that this raises a lot of questions, but the time has come for this sector to arm itself like the task force which is working, within the committee on transport and tourism - and i am proud of its members - on a clear road map to redraw what tourism of tomorrow will be, that is to say, local, sustainable and local tourism.
i will conclude with the fourth question, on the evaluation of the financial support provided to the tourism ecosystem as a whole.
cohesion policy will of course continue to offer member states the opportunity to support projects in the coming years that contribute to a new, more resilient and sustainable tourism ecosystem; we've talked about it a lot.
my priority is to ensure that this recovery is of course sustainable - as president karima delli has said - and that it is a reality in all regions and for all tourism sectors.
the pandemic has also had an accelerating effect on the union's priorities for digital and environmental transition.
today, the failure of small businesses, the decline in trust, a whole host of factors that show otherwise the need for a long-term sustainable strategy for tourism.
the tourism sector, and especially mass tourism, has a strong impact on climate change and nature.
it contributes to 8% of global co2 emissions and these are continuing to increase.
but it is also a very vulnerable sector, as it is also a victim of climate change and biodiversity loss.
we must ensure that the recovery plans drawn up and the investments made in this sector ensure a transition to sustainable tourism, tourism that is fair to people and the planet.
every aspect of tourism must be sustainable, from mobility to housing.
but what is the commission doing to encourage and monitor the ecological transition in the tourism sector, so that we do not return to the status quo?
the economic damage has been enormous and the lack of funds to operate the digital transformation is evident, as is the urgent need to invest in sustainability and energy efficiency.
the response required is suitable for all seasons: support and incentives that promote the recovery and sustainability of the sector, based on work with rights and the valuation of workers and their wages, and serving the objective of contributing to the development of the member states in the framework of their strategies for social and territorial cohesion.
we have to save the climate.
wind farms produce less energy, gas extraction has been reduced, and storage is on average 58 percent full.
it is the netherlands, the home country of commissioner timmermans, who is the author of the 'fit for 55' plan, which is intended to improve the future situation of the energy market in europe.
you've all talked about what caused the energy price increases in the ets.
so if we want to save europeans from a very, very serious energy crisis, both in terms of social issues and energy security, we really need to rethink the energy policy of the european union.
this is part of the huge energy pressure, as the new pipeline will increase gazprom's position on the eu market and provide additional tools to limit the political, economic and regulatory freedom of the european union.
european companies are losing competitiveness and citizens are benefiting from energy increases.
the european union should design a long-term european energy and climate policy so that climate concerns go hand in hand with the energy security of our citizens and businesses.
countries at the forefront of green propaganda, like the netherlands, are turning to coal-fired technology to stabilize prices and ensure a steady supply of energy.
because that's the cost of rushing to decarbonize and trusting in renewable energy that just doesn't work.
all we need to do is rationalize and adapt climate policy to societal expectations and economic opportunities.
otherwise, european energy will forever be dependent on the whims of the weather and russian roulette.
green energy is important, but at the moment there is no way to meet half of our needs.
it is a disaster: we are seeing the european union's energy policy and climate policy collapse before our eyes!
what do we say to the europeans who are worried about the fact that the price of energy, gas, water, garbage, the cost of living has increased many times over?
at the same time, he is happy and does nothing with gazprom and nord stream 2. on several occasions, the two political groups, s&d and epl, have rejected the possibility of a resolution that would have forced the commission to stop nord stream 2.
madam president, understanding the future of energy systems is extremely challenging, and as policy makers, we must not sell simpler narratives to win public support.
we have a responsibility to every citizen to work in their best interests, and that means switching to clean energy – but it also means keeping the lights on in the meantime with transitional fuels.
the solution is the accelerated deployment of renewables and improved energy efficiency to reduce reliance on volatile markets.
how europe handles the energy transition will not just determine our economic future, but it will determine the very social cohesion of the entire union.
we cannot allow a situation where the most vulnerable are left with rising energy costs, nor can we strangle our economy as we equip ourselves with green energy.
member states must pay particular attention to those in danger of energy poverty.
permitting requirements and incentive schemes for renewable energy are dealt with at national level and member states must do more to fast track positive energy projects.
in ireland, this is a major problem, and i call on the government to ensure that renewable projects procedures are streamlined, particularly offshore wind, and sufficient attention paid to grid development so that this energy can be utilised.
many say that the spike in energy prices is a natural consequence of the market and as such must be accepted.
it is true that there was a spike in demand, a sign of recovery in the european economy, but it is also true that this circumstance was accompanied by multiple moves to exploit market failures, to generate short-term profits or to condition the energy transition in the medium and long term.
we must stop these dynamics with concrete responses: by continuing to invest in renewables, which already bring lower prices to the clean energy market than fossil fuels.
using the carbon market and the funds it generates as an emergency resource to tackle energy poverty and support companies in greater difficulty.
investing in the development of renewable energy storage capacity, in particular green hydrogen and batteries.
and by promoting more transparent and community-engaged distributed energy systems.
this is not a time to waver in europe's commitment to the energy transition, but rather an opportunity to respond to its enemies with measures to promote human dignity, economic innovation and environmental sustainability.
with the emissions trading, we wanted to bring about higher energy prices and now we have succeeded.
russia's budget is terribly dependent on high energy prices.
the best protection against energy price increases is more because cheaper renewable energy.
four out of five europeans are concerned about rising energy bills and want to see solutions now.
we must therefore support those who are struggling to make ends meet by offering them a cheaper social tariff for energy.
and we also need to help save energy.
the european social climate fund can be a great instrument for this.
but then, at last, polluting companies will have to pay for their emissions.
let's put those billions to work to get everyone on board with the climate transition.
ladies and gentlemen, i don't want to trivialize this problem, but let's remember that all investments in renewable energy also have costs.
and that could give us a low-carbon gas.
renewable energy is simply too expensive, and let's face it: europe will lose if it tries to rely on renewables alone.
we have been experiencing a rapid rise in energy prices throughout the european union for some time.
this directly affects both our citizens and businesses, especially those energy-intensive ones, which also represent our security and prosperity.
there are several reasons, but the main ones are the rising prices of energy resources, especially gas, and the increase in the price of co2 emission allowances.
in europe, it is necessary to return to the idea of an energy union with the aim of diversification, joint purchases of natural gas as a transitional fuel in the transition and maintaining gas stocks at an appropriate level.
it could also derail our climate goals and cause energy poverty and corporate bankruptcy.
today we have a debate, but unfortunately we are not talking about how to prevent a possible increase in energy prices, because this increase has already happened.
for example, gas prices per cubic meter have risen by 200 percent since january 2021 alone, and electricity prices by more than 150 percent, in a country that aspires to be a model of renewable energy.
unfortunately, the unrealistic climate policy that the european commission is pushing without taking into account the social costs is leading to an unimaginable increase in energy prices.
when will this house accept the fact that we cannot rely on renewable energy alone, if we ignore the need to build reserves?
when we start using the wealth and natural resources that we actually have in a sensible and sustainable way to provide energy stability and security, to combat energy poverty, the spectre of which is more real than ever.
it is high time for a change of course in the energy policy of the ec and many politicians in this institution.
in addition, changes in the economic environment have also justified the need to adapt the code to the realities.
we agreed on the most important issues, the polish government agreed on the most important issues, including the decarbonisation of the polish economy, that is, the energy industry.
the polish government is trying to show that it is playing green, and the average pole still does not know what energy mix he wants to offer us.
what is the role of coal, atomic, wind energy?
the commission has therefore decided to commit appropriations to investments in the energy transition, digitalisation, education and the rule of law.
one last point: the challenges we face in health and in the fight against climate change make me think that next generation eu should not be the last of its kind.
there is no doubt that we would have made more rapid progress in our current project to use the energy consumed in a steelworks in kehl to heat strasbourg.
and i believe that together, we can reform the common european asylum system, because in a few years, we're going to have a huge climate migration.
what’s worse, this law empowers and gives monetary incentives to any private citizen to sue anyone who may have helped women obtain an abortion, allowing for individual enforcement of abortion bans that creates a climate of fear and intimidation.
a sound impact assessment of an initiative with such significant economic and environmental impacts is necessary.
in addition, agricultural production may be exported outside the eu because of our stringent environmental requirements, and the resolution does not address the need to ensure that food suppliers outside the eu are prepared for similar changes in production standards.
without such adjustments or appropriate adjustments to eu trade policy, eu products will be partly replaced by imports and the global environmental effects will be minimal or even negative (the 'emission leakage effect').
i also draw attention to what the energy transition will bring, to remember that in the regions - in the case of poland, these are mining regions - there are people living and working who will also need support to adapt to the new reality.
the report cannot be a wish-fulfillment concert, it must respond to an immediate challenge, and that challenge is the galloping prices of energy, gas and the threat of energy poverty.
to avoid this, we should already be giving the states the means to control and protect our borders by stopping the waste of manpower and customs resources.
up to 35 million buildings in the eu will need to be renovated by 2035. there's going to be a wave of green renovations that will lead to huge energy savings.
this is why we are also developing alternative and sustainable sources of funding for the news media, including through a pilot project, under the investeu programme, to co-invest with foundations and other private partners.
unfortunately, the media ecosystem was already fragile before the pandemic.
the money flows mainly to global non-european players, who do not properly feed back into the european media ecosystem.
however, we cannot ignore that climate change is causing more frequent and intense weather and climate-extreme disasters in europe and around the world.
the high chamber, social inequalities, inflation, rising living costs that affect all europeans, external threats, rising public debt, illegal immigration and the energy crisis, all add to the climate challenge, and all translate into social unrest and a long list of powerful problems.
today, we are on the verge of a major gas and energy crisis.
poland was the promoter of an ambitious reconstruction fund, so that today's response to the challenges of climate, energy, post-pandemic transformation is adequate to the needs, so that economic growth is strong, that it gives hope and does not leave millions of children, women and men defenseless against globalization.
today, with all of us feeling the effects of rising gas prices, we can see clearly the results of shortsightedness in energy security.
how can we finance the energy and climate transition in a fair and efficient way?
you should use your energy, but for poland, to work with the european union on solutions that guarantee, for example, access to a gynaecologist for polish women in rural areas and the right to independent living for people with disabilities in poland.
as regards climate policy initiatives: firstly, they must not be at the expense of the poorest social groups; secondly, they must not lead to the deepening of energy poverty and the collapse of entire mining regions.
we are disappointed that the project to change the mobility package needed to maintain the coherence and credibility of climate policy has not been included in the list of planned initiatives.
the ecr also dislikes gender budgeting, which is the linking of budgets to gender issues, biodiversity or sexual health.
most of these could easily be funded if we didn’t waste so much money on rules and regulations.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the guidelines for state aid for climate action, energy and the environment (ceeag) (2021/2923 ((rsp)).
by putting forward a green deal in line with the objectives set out in the paris agreement, the european union committed to making europe the world’s first climate neutral continent by 2050. in order to achieve that, it is necessary to adjust and update our regulatory framework.
therefore, the reform of state aid rules in the field of climate, energy and the environment is necessary in order to enable member states to support projects that contribute to achieving climate neutrality.
besides empowering member states to reach the goals of the green deal and allow governments to fund, when necessary, a larger share of the cost than before, the updated guidelines will focus on new flagship areas such as biodiversity, clean mobile infrastructure and research efficiency.
the council will continue to support progress towards the long—term goal of climate neutrality, as appropriate.
– mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the draft climate, energy and environmental protection state aid guidelines.
from the simple fact that the green deal is our top priority, we need to fight climate change and we need to get the necessary resources to do so.
the recent spike in energy prices has demonstrated the urgency of this transition and the need to move away from fossil fuel dependency.
we have to make huge investments in infrastructure, in wind, in solar plants, in energy-efficient buildings, in networks that secure green mobility and in decarbonising industry.
the revision of our existing guidelines for energy and environment protection state aid will play a key role in helping member states provide adequate support to reach green deal objectives, where the markets cannot deliver alone.
this includes clean mobility, circularity, biodiversity and energy efficiency in buildings.
our new guidelines would cover all technologies that can deliver the green deal, such as those for production of renewable and low-carbon hydrogen.
renewable energy remains as important as ever in achieving our targets.
member states continue to set up separate renewable schemes as they do today under a new, cross-cutting section on decarbonising measures.
as a counterbalance to the increased flexibility, obviously we need safeguards to ensure that the aid is effectively directed to where it’s necessary to improve climate and environmental protection and is limited to what is necessary to achieve the environmental goals.
energy communities, they play an important role in ensuring citizen participation and, of course, also public acceptance.
last but not least, we want our guidelines to work seamlessly together with and support relevant european legislation and policies in the environmental and energy field, and that also requires a coherent approach to ending subsidies for fossil fuels and particularly those which are most polluting.
for those fossil fuels, the draft guidelines foresee that a positive assessment under state aid rules is unlikely in the light of the negative effects on the environment.
in the same vein, we also need to avoid that support for gas in a transitional period creates lock-in effects, not compatible with the 2030 and 2050 climate targets.
we want that simplification to also be extended to investment in new technologies, such as renewable and low-carbon hydrogen and carbon capture and storage or use, and to areas that are key to achieve the objectives of the green deal; could be zero pollution, resource efficiency, biodiversity.
ley provisions on clean mobility and energy performance of buildings were already introduced in july this year.
the ambitious environmental and climate targets we have set for ourselves as the european union require major transformations of our economic model.
this transformation will present considerable challenges for many european companies, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and those operating in energy-intensive sectors.
looking at the european commission's consultation documents for the new guidelines on climate, energy and environmental aid, i have the impression that the commission is trying to leave the european economy, and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, in the lurch.
however, mergers will not solve the structural problems, such as the current high cost of energy or the fact that there are simply no savings in the energy-intensive sector.
i therefore ask you to design the guidelines in such a way that energy-intensive production can continue to be possible... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions.
the eu has set itself the target of reducing co2 emissions by 55% by 2030 and becoming climate neutral by 2050. this will require a great effort on the part of our society and economy.
the transition to climate neutrality requires significant private and public investment in new products and production processes.
with the new guidelines on state aid for climate, energy and the environment, the commission has put forward a proposal for the necessary reform of the aid framework.
i would like to emphasize two aspects in particular: the climate-neutral transformation of the economy is certainly about promoting innovation, but it is also about bringing to market already known low-carbon processes on a large-scale.
the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the environmental impact of the use of fossil fuels.
however, this should be subject to two conditions: beneficiaries shall set out in binding contracts the transition steps envisaged and how and when climate neutrality is achieved through the transition process, and such transition process shall respect the principle of 'avoiding significant impacts'.
the new guidelines presented by the commission are an important contribution to achieving our ambitious climate policy objectives.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how can we put our public policies at the service of both the ecological transition and the social emergency?
beyond our energy model, the current surge in gas and energy prices also threatens the viability of our businesses and the living conditions of the most vulnerable.
everyone here, i imagine, is advocating for an acceleration of the clean energy transition.
for an ecological and social future, competition policy must be aligned with the objectives of the green deal - as you said earlier, madam commissioner.
this is not the case when your project allows for extensive support for gas and potentially nuclear, whereas there are far more sustainable alternatives.
it is high time to impose environmental and social requirements on state aid.
it is at this price that our competition policy will serve genuinely sustainable development.
the new draft guidelines replace the 2014-2020 guidelines and focus more on climate objectives and less on energy security and competitiveness.
we're creating artificial overlays on coal, which could be the cheapest source of energy for many years to come, and so we're part of the energy transition.
and here we read that investing in natural gas does not bring a positive environmental effect.
what we're seeing right now, the rising energy prices for everything, is just the beginning.
this week, the un human rights council declared, with broad support, a new human right - the right to a healthy environment.
the climate crisis, increased pollution, and the increasing destruction of biodiversity have already knocked off the legs of millions of people worldwide.
according to a study by the world health organization, 24 percent of all deaths worldwide are linked to the environment, such as air pollution and chemicals.
we risk having over a billion refugees as a result of the climate crisis in just a few decades.
in the eu, we have now gone ahead and declared a climate emergency.
a clear signal that we are serious about this climate emergency is that we are now also taking the lead and treating the right to a healthy environment as an inviolable human right.
it is obvious that we all want to breathe clean air, to live in a protected and friendly environment.
it is clear as day, but the european commission's climate policy must be sustainable, because under the guise of protecting the environment we can destroy our economies.
on friday, polish miners and energy workers will protest in luxembourg against the decision to stop the operation of the turów mine in lower silesia.
one of the big issues that needs to be spoken about is the energy crisis and what's in store for all europeans when they have to pay very high bills for electricity, for heating.
i was actually going to come back to speak about energy prices this morning, as many of my colleagues have done, but i decided to make a few remarks on the course of events after the debate.
the european council now has the chance to finally show its ability to act on the energy price crisis.
on energy prices, please try to lower our dependence on russia rather than trying to appease this country.
today, europeans expect two things from the european commission, the european union: border security and energy security.
and secondly, that he will decide to revise the ets so that energy prices do not skyrocket (this is the fault of the price of carbon dioxide emission allowances, which has increased almost fourfold in the last two years), to revise the package "fit for 55" (because it is badly written, badly calculated, it will cause the prices, which are so high today, to increase many times), as well as the fact that it is necessary to block nord stream 2. two groups are blocking this: the s&ds and the epp.
at the eu climate summit, europe must not only be a leader, but above all, it must be credible, because only then can it convince us that it is right, that it has ambitions.
first, when he says that he has the europeans behind him, that he has the citizens behind him, that he has told his citizens that they will pay many times more for energy, for heat, for gas, for water, for the price of airline tickets, for cars, for housing.
if we get that approval, then we're credible, and the "fit for 55" package tells the citizen, the european, that you're going to pay, we're not going to help you at all, and there's little evidence of how much that translates into emissions, how much that translates into environmental protection.
these are new technologies that actually capture carbon dioxide emissions, which is in line with the ipcc report.
if we can make the case for this at the climate summit, if we can prove it, then we'll be credible, then we'll be a real leader.
i think that concern for the climate, for clean air, and for preparing the next generation for a safe future, is something that we all share.
because when we look - and this has been said here many times - at the contribution of the individual continents and the industrialized countries to climate change, we must humbly acknowledge that if we do not convince the big countries, the big economies - like china, the united states, brazil, russia and we can exchange ... or india - then unfortunately we will not be effective in climate change and we will not achieve the goal that we rightly set for ourselves here.
so i ask our representatives: what arguments do we have - not a message, but arguments - to convince the countries of the world that we can win this concern for the climate, for clean air, and that we can be effective and credible?
we are responsible for this because we, the european union, are involved in the construction of nord stream 2.
madam president, we all know that global warming is the challenge of our time, and after carbon, methane is key among the gases that we need to address.
for most farmers, their love of nature and the environment is the very reason why they became farmers in the first place.
yes, methane is an efficient, unfortunately very efficient greenhouse gas, and yes, reduction is of course an important goal.
if it comes from animals, does it come from farm animals or does it come from wild animals that also exist in nature, or does it come from other factors like methane gas used for energy?
and we should also remember that animals use grass, that animals use permanent grassland, that permanent grassland is also a very important factor for photosynthesis to take place, so that co2 -- another important greenhouse gas -- can be reabsorbed and carbon can be bound to it.
in fact, methane emissions have been neglected for far too long, and they are very dangerous in the short and medium term because of their strong impact on the climate.
that must be our aim, and above all we need a rapid reduction, including in the energy sector.
there is a gap which we must look at, and that is the agricultural sector, which accounts for 40% of emissions.
finally, it is not only necessary to reduce methane from a climate point of view, but also from a health point of view.
because dangerous ozone is produced in the ground, killing hundreds of thousands of people worldwide each year.
but i want to talk about concrete measures, particularly in relation to methane emissions in agriculture, because there is some good news.
one study shows that technological progress alone can significantly reduce emissions in agriculture, through three possible tools.
secondly, low-emission methane breeding could significantly reduce emissions.
and thirdly - as some colleagues have already said - the preservation of greenland is not only important for carbon storage, biodiversity or beautiful grazing landscapes for tourism, but is also of particular importance for the climate by feeding ruminants and the considerable co2 savings achieved by the provision of climate-friendly biogas as an energy source.
most of these relate to the three most important sectors for methane emissions, and therefore i will also reply on these three sectors.
as concerns energy, many of you mentioned this.
many of the issues mentioned, and also included in the report, such as the call to establish binding rules on the measuring, reporting and verification of methane emissions and mandatory leak detection and repair, are planned to be covered in our december legislative proposal.
at this very moment, with the high energy prices, i think that it is also important to note that the higher the gas prices, the higher the cost—effectiveness of the measures to mitigate methane emissions is, because methane should be used as a natural product rather than escaping to the atmosphere.
on the international side, the international methane emissions observatory (imeo) will provide reliable data on methane emissions and will therefore represent a powerful tool to drive global action to reduce global methane emissions.
the global methane pledge, as a joint eu—us initiative, represents a strong outcome of our renewed transatlantic agenda to continue and strengthen our cooperation on climate change and decarbonisation of energy.
it includes a commitment to move towards using the best available inventory methodologies to quantify methane emissions, with a particular focus on high emission sources.
as concerns the environmental legislation, we are reviewing the industrial emissions directive, the sewage sludge directive, the urban waste water treatment directive and the landfill directive.
this includes investments for the modernisation of animal housing, the creation of local innovation groups with farmers and specific thematic focus groups of the european innovation partnership on methane emission reduction and carbon sequestration in grasslands.
the eu soil strategy also has the potential to become a milestone in eu policies related to a healthy environment in the long run.
the legislative ecosystem represented by the green deal will, directly and indirectly, affect millions of lives and jobs in all sectors, and the commission is particularly careful to ensure a fair and just green transition for all, especially vulnerable groups in the energy, agri—food and other sectors.
in the post-2020 cap, member states will have the possibility to design a specific combination of interventions, reducing emissions from agriculture.
thank you for bringing to my attention many important issues concerning the reduction of methane emissions in your interventions today and, of course, in the report.
i am pleased to see that our level of ambition in reducing methane emissions is very much aligned.
following the recent climate agreement with the us, it is our best hope in the eu to be able to lead the world in the right direction.
it is now the time to suggest and negotiate a binding global agreement on methane mitigation at the cop26 meeting in glasgow in line with the model pathways that limit global warming to 1.5°c from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) special report, the ipcc sixth assessment report and the 2021 united nations environment programme (unep) global methane assessment.
in this regard, it is of paramount importance to proceed with immediate and rapid reductions in methane emissions, paying attention to economic and social sustainability and, in this decade, it is one of the effective measures for the eu climate action.
methane emission reduction complements the necessary reductions in carbon dioxide emissions and many of the emission cuts required by the paris agreement and could already be achieved with low cost, as the commission said, and technically feasible methane mitigation.
commissioner, we fully endorse your approach and your arguments on methane reduction in the energy sector and we are looking forward to our cooperation.
agriculture is cited as the main source of methane emissions in the eu (53%), followed by the waste sector (26%) and energy (19%).
in addition, we must not forget that agriculture holds enormous potential for reducing harmful emissions through investments in innovation, new feed additives, improved breeding and genetics, grazing, integrated manure management, production of biogas from agricultural waste, etc.
in this respect, agriculture is part of the solution and good livestock management practices can lead to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
farmers should have the necessary tools and financial incentives to implement carbon and methane capture practices in order to further reduce emissions in agriculture.
the european union's target of reducing all greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 includes methane emissions.
methane is the second most important cause of climate change, after carbon dioxide.
without global efforts and international cooperation, this battle is already lost, as a significant part of global methane emissions comes from outside the eu.
increased methane emissions affect biodiversity and agricultural production, while reducing methane emissions, together with the use of existing technologies, can provide multiple benefits, including better crop yields.
the eu can limit emissions from agriculture through technological innovation, as well as incentives and partnerships with farmers.
it is imperative to ensure a fair transition for all sectors where reductions in methane emissions can have a socio-economic impact, so as to avoid the relocation of economic and agricultural activities outside the european union.
– the eu’s external border regions, especially islands, have been hard hit by a crisis in tourism, exacerbated by mounting energy and transport prices.
mr. president, we have a lot of bold goals for 2050. among them are: zero carbon emissions and zero road deaths.
the safety of europe's roads and the reduction of pollution depend on a set of measures that gradually bring us closer to these targets.
the aim is to do so safely and with less pollution, in compliance with national and european rules.
and in order for many of them to thrive in the long term, including in the arts and culture that i referenced and the protection of the environment and social innovation, they do need to look at ways in this non—commercial sector of long—term financial strategies that makes them sustainable.
that said, what is happening on the border of belarus certainly deserves to be called that because it fits the definition, but i think we should make an effort to avoid an escalation of war terms, we should avoid increasing tension by using tense words: i do not think that the war or neo-war climate we are creating with the discourse of wars, raids, etc.
it is a shame that our community continues to leave people fleeing war, hunger and the effects of the climate crisis without support and assistance.
together with increasing threats to their physical and online safety, legal threats and abusive litigation add to an environment where hostile activity against journalists is growing and can have a serious impact on their willingness and ability to continue their work.
finally, let me stress that the anti-slapp initiative will be reinforced by other actions to ensure a proper working environment for journalists and safeguarding media freedom and pluralism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
they are crucial to preserving what little we have left of europe's biodiversity.
you also note the need for favourable conditions for low-emission and sustainable mining activities in the european union, and this is of course a very important point.
unlike other jurisdictions, our legal framework strikes the right balance between three imperatives: protecting the environment, the effective and constructive participation of local communities, without which nothing can be done, and meeting our raw material needs.
we are working hand in hand with member states to ensure that industrial projects are born in europe and that we can actually, in a concrete and tangible way, reduce our dependencies, support innovation, but also ensure the resilience of europe, and this, of course, in full respect of our environmental and biodiversity commitments.
as such, we have launched an industry alliance which recently published an action plan for a sustainable, competitive permanent magnet value chain.
it is essential to ensure the lowest possible environmental impact, but scientific and technological advances in mining give us assurances that this is possible, provided that sustainability is a precondition.
we have adopted new climate targets, we have reached an agreement in glasgow.
in practice, this means more renewable energy, investments in energy efficiency, the development of electromobility.
i think we should be very strong and responsible in linking climate policy with industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, certain rare metals and materials are necessary for the green transition, because they are key components of batteries and renewable technologies.
as an entrepreneur, i fully understand the reasons for this choice, but i would like to remind you that any extractive activity must be carried out in agreement with the local communities, respecting safety and environmental standards and preserving our delicate ecosystems and biodiversity in europe.
the protection of the environment, ladies and gentlemen, is not an end in itself, but is essential for the development of many other productive sectors, which are equally important, such as agriculture and tourism, on which a large part of our economies is based.
it is therefore absolutely essential to ensure europe's strategic autonomy, but this must not turn into a new gold rush at the expense of our citizens, their health and our environment.
on the other hand, we have set ourselves the most ambitious climate targets.
in europe, we have a unique opportunity to mine sustainably, using a process that meets the highest environmental and social standards in the world.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
i think we all know in this room that the green transition and meeting europe's climate goals is not possible without critical raw materials.
electric cars can't run without lithium in their batteries, wind turbines can't produce energy without generators that contain neodymium or dysprosium.
i therefore believe that it is essential to ensure the safety and security of supply of these raw materials and thus to allow their sustainable extraction in europe, based on high environmental standards and appropriate working conditions.
i also agree that we need to use new technologies to enable extractions that are more environmentally and biodiversity friendly, in order to set new standards of extraction for us, but also elsewhere.
we have the opportunity here to impose new, more sustainable extraction criteria, which are once again more respectful of our environment, of biodiversity, of what underpins the uniqueness of our planet.
we will be able to reconcile the protection of the environment with the satisfaction of our needs.
the energy transition will require increased access to raw materials.
the community must take action in the fields of industrial, commercial and environmental policy.
in the interests of preserving the union's independence, it is necessary to initiate and increase extraction within its borders, to make smarter use of available materials and to adopt a circular economy and the recovery of minerals from waste.
however, we must also respect the principles of sustainable mineral exploitation, environmental principles and respect for the rights of local communities.
both the eu's industrial and trade policies, while respecting the principles of environmental protection and sustainable development, must lead to greater resource independence for the eu and thus to greater strategic autonomy.
it is important that sport can benefit from other eu policies in the areas of health, employment, youth, education, the internal market and the environment.
in future programmes, such as erasmus plus, sport should receive even more funding, it should support the transition to a sustainable and innovative future.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of sport on the union's overall climate and environmental performance.
therefore, if we impose unrealistic environmental requirements on them, we endanger the food supply of european citizens.
the union and the member states are facing new environmental and climate challenges.
first, we addressed the current spike in energy prices and its impact on families and businesses.
we also invited the commission to study the functioning of the gas and electricity market and the eu ets market with the help of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european securities and markets authority.
in any case, this price hike shows that we need an energy market that contributes to affordable prices, that is resilient and provides for stability and security of supply, and supports the transition to climate neutrality.
we also invited the european investment bank to speed up investment in energy transition.
the current price problem is not a reason to relax our climate ambitions.
we must use trade to support our prosperity and to promote our social and environmental priorities, as well as our fundamental values.
speaking of another crisis, the climate summit in glasgow has brought about progress, but it’s the bitter reality that this progress is absolutely insufficient in the wake of a catastrophic climate crisis.
europe needs to step up its game, and it’s not helped by branding fossil investments as sustainable.
investments in gas now will mean prolonging the fossil era for decades, instead of finally getting real with climate protection.
and nuclear is neither safe nor clean, and certainly not renewable.
we desperately need a sustainable energy transition, and we cannot waste our time on gas and nuclear.
i have said this several times on energy and raw materials.
to think that what we're doing here in terms of energy transition is not impacting these dynamics is to not understand the scale of this problem.
the energy transition is an important point, but we must do it pragmatically and in the light of the present situation.
finally, what president michel said (for which i would like to thank him, and this has not been mentioned in other speeches): the energy crisis, the threat of poverty for individual countries of the european union, but also, and above all, for europeans.
brussels also wants to make millions of families pay for the costs of fighting climate change in the form of climate taxes, instead of making big corporations pay for the climate destruction.
on climate, europe is leading by example.
on energy prices we now have a toolbox.
this is the case, for example, when we are mobilised internationally, with a robust project, considering that climate is an issue that must involve us fully; then we influence the rest of the world.
finally, and this is something that some colleagues have mentioned, i remain convinced that the energy issue is a hugely important issue for our ability to support both european families and citizens and our businesses, small, medium and large.
we also see that in the medium and long term we must have the ambition to cooperate, to coordinate more to anticipate the challenges related to this energy issue and to ensure that we have more positive impact on a subject that will be extremely important and that has different aspects, whether geopolitical, whether economic or whether they directly affect our ability to succeed in this climate transition that many of us consider as a high priority for the future.
sixthly, a common energy policy.
the union is being blackmailed by russia because we are still playing against each other in energy policy, not for each other.
we must return with greater energy to the idea of enlarging the union with new members.
mr president, the truth is that i am not going to focus on denouncing the humanitarian situation on the border of belarus with poland, where women, men, children and girls are being treated as if they were real waste.
we are facing disinformation, cyber attacks, blackmail through energy supplies and military build-ups at our borders.
there are already many examples of roma who reached beyond what at first sight appeared an environment deprived of opportunities and filled with prejudice and discrimination.
this is due to, for example, climate change and its effects.
a few euros increased the ets, the european carbon trading system.
this is obviously very pleasing to the commissioner, because the commissioner believes that the ets should be increased, regardless of energy prices and the costs to citizens.
at the same time, an important thing happened: it was calculated who was responsible for the emission of carbon dioxide and the storage of carbon dioxide since 1850. and of course, it's china, it's the united states, note -- in the top ten, there's germany -- which are the countries that don't want to discuss that they bear the greatest responsibility also now, also financially, and they say to the whole world, "you answer the same, you have to pay the same".
if we want to remove carbon dioxide, we have to use modern technology.
the highlights of the cop26 climate summit can be summed up in a few words: joe biden has fallen asleep, greta thunberg is hysterical, and xi jinping is not coming at all.
it's a bit of a shame that the world climate summits are losing not only their importance, but their relevance.
we're taking on the burden of global climate change, even though we're only responsible for nine percent of the world's carbon emissions.
the european union could achieve climate neutrality tomorrow, and the earth won't even know it.
radical environmentalists in glasgow warned of a climate apocalypse.
i would like to warn of the social apocalypse that awaits us if we continue to engage in climate radicalism that brings chaos, poverty and fear.
we all agree that we need to fight climate change.
each country has its own energy specificity.
enough of the deception, enough of the pseudo-ecological bullshit, enough of the pretending and the pretending, enough of the postponing of decisions, enough of the selling of our children's lives for petro and coal dollars.
climate disaster is a deadly, rapidly progressing disease that we're getting ourselves into.
we must be united on this issue and i know that the commissioner is united on this issue, thinking about energy justice.
the poor people know that if we talk about the energy revolution, their energy bills will be lower, their lives will be better, without worrying about their future, also financial, not only energy, not only ecological.
i have to say, actually, that the whole world has joined in seeing the climate threat as one of the greatest threats to humanity, that's certainly a success.
i would like to remind you that in the czech republic, former president václav klaus emphasized that man's impact on global warming is minimal, if not outright denied.
we should adopt the principle that we don't have to be zero in all areas, but the overall impact must be absolutely zero in emissions.
we can go to substitution options, proper forestry policy, carbon capture, ccs, there are just enough options where we don't have to be totally dogmatic.
i am one of those who believe that we have made progress and that we still have to make progress, but i am convinced that the strong momentum achieved by europe, with an ambitious and courageous strategy, must be characterized by a practical sense, which in many cases has been overwhelmed by demagogy and ideological clashes, fostering the mistaken belief that the environment is the concern of some and not of all.
the environment is not a religious faith.
europe has done well to take the global stage in the fight against climate change, stimulating even the most reticent countries like china.
however, i believe that this must be done by involving our production system, which should not be demonized, also because we europeans are already the most virtuous in respecting the environment, unlike those who continue to produce under different conditions, generating unfair competition and weakening europe's productive autonomy.
one thing is certain: if europe really wants to be a leader in the fight against climate change, it must have a strong and competitive economy to help developing countries too and to finance a green transition where environmental, social and economic sustainability has declined.
mr. president, in paris in 2015, there was a promise to try to prevent global warming beyond one and a half degrees.
it is unacceptable that, while we are trying to reduce our emissions, the other inhabitants of the planet are content with wishes without any real commitment.
we cannot allow violence to increase the use of coal for energy purposes at the expense of greater profits.
first, the mythical cost of the transition and that climate policy is ideological.
i think by now we can agree that denying the climate crisis is ideological.
one would have to be blind not to see what is happening in our natural environment globally, everywhere.
one would have to be blind not to want to read the report of the global climate panel which is so clear, and the only reason we made such progress in glasgow is because all countries on earth have now seen the devastating effect of a 1.1 degree increase of temperature in relation to pre-industrial levels.
facing the climate crisis is science and, with all due respect to the right side of parliament, it is great that there are no longer hardly any climate deniers in your camp, but you came a bit late to the party so others are a bit wary of whether this is genuine.
the us had as leader a climate denier, china didn’t want to do anything.
they’re all declaring carbon neutral or climate neutral goals.
russia is even introducing the first pricing of carbon, which would have been unthinkable a year ago.
china is introducing an emissions-trading system based on our emissions-trading system.
other major economies know they will all have to put a price on carbon, so they will all be faced with the risk of carbon leakage so they’re all looking at systems such as the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) and comparable systems to avoid carbon leakage.
that is the advantage of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc).
we need to look in the imf at what we can do with special drawing rights (sdrs) to mobilise them to help climate finance.
international engagement with strong, rules-based multilateralism is key to achieving successful outcomes in addressing climate change.
we came back from glasgow with a strong paris agreement and strengthened global climate ambitions, which further fills the gaps in achieving the long-term goals of the paris agreement.
it is also a fact that the european union contributes only eight per cent of global emissions and that it cannot solve the problem on its own.
we are committed to meeting our climate goals and we always encourage others to do the same.
responding to the challenges of and adapting to climate change is essential to create a more resilient and greener economy and society as a whole.
now, the special eurobarometer on climate change from april reports that climate change is the problem number one for many europeans.
for example, 43% of swedes consider climate change to be the single most serious problem facing the world, while in my home country croatia only 9% of citizens agree with that.
i think it is important to lower the gap in awareness on climate change in the eu.
the fight against climate change must become a part of daily life of all the citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector.
other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change.
the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
it is vital to keep the un climate agreement alive and vibrant as a process, because only then will it be possible to make decisions and take steps forward globally that affect all countries.
but we need to double the amount of emissions cuts by 2030. it is therefore important that the eu, the us, china and india together and individually significantly raise the level of ambition for the agreement now.
good ways to do this include the circular economy, sustainable finance and the shift to renewable energy.
we must abandon fossil energy on a fast timetable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector.
other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change.
the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
unfortunately, these funds are mostly used to support industrial farming, which is harmful to health and the environment and is causing a climate catastrophe.
the next climate summit did not make any concrete decisions on this matter.
areas like energy and transportation were given all day, while agriculture and the new food system were marginalised or ignored.
world leaders are still unable to connect the dots or are unwilling to acknowledge to the public that the current food system is bankrupt, exacerbating climate catastrophe, destroying biodiversity, contributing to the destruction of valuable natural lands, causing growing social inequalities, and - which is particularly important to me - causing the suffering and death of billions of so-called farm animals.
how can you participate in the climate debate, how can you make decisions about the future, when you don't have the courage to stand up to the meat lobbyists?
the european union has an ambitious climate policy, it has a 'fit for 55', it has more and more renewable energy.
but it also has rising energy prices, growing exclusion and energy poverty, and growing dependence on imported energy sources.
it also has empty gas stores and more and more europeans who cannot afford to pay such high energy bills.
i think that for the 31 million europeans who are already suffering from energy poverty, monitoring alone is not enough.
the european commission's report describes progress in the clean energy transition.
unfortunately, there's a little bit of a shortage of relevant facts about the current energy situation.
in the face of the energy sector's brutal paralysis, two questions arise: will we be able to provide electricity for the next decade, given the ever-increasing demand for energy in the european market?
the european union is experiencing unprecedented power outages, unprecedented energy price increases.
if we want to break out of this vicious circle, we need to reset our energy transformation.
the european union will suffer not only a political but also a civilizational defeat if people are forced to reduce their energy consumption just because of a cloudy day or a wind that has stopped blowing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic recovery is accompanied by an increase in energy prices, but just as we have always been able to overcome crises with common european solutions, i am convinced that the way out of the current situation is once again to find common solutions in the energy sector.
it is european cooperation in research and development, in infrastructure interconnection and in the joint purchasing of selected energy raw materials that can lead to better use of resources, to greater efficiency, which will be reflected not only in the better competitiveness of our products but also in better prices for our citizens.
the european union has always been a world leader in setting high standards in energy price savings and climate protection.
in the context of the just concluded climate summit and the targets we have set ourselves, it is necessary to say that any efforts to reduce emissions will be useless if the countries that pollute the most do not also participate.
we must also engage in active and effective climate and energy diplomacy to get others to adopt our environmental standards.
we must not do this to the detriment of our economy and in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises, which bear the brunt of the various regulations and also make a significant contribution to energy payments.
the current situation, with unprecedented energy prices and crises, should challenge us to complete a real energy union.
mr president, this autumn we talked a lot about energy because of the prices.
the yearly report of the energy union provides a good overview of what we have reached and what remains to be done.
i thank you, commissioner, for prioritising breaking the dependency, r&d and climate.
the eu’s climate neutrality goal 2050 means that we have new technologies in place before the regions who only set targets for 2060 or even beyond.
member states know their energy mix; they should act as well, and they should have acted.
now here i am not just asking the commission to take good notice of the rapidly-increasing political support for nuclear energy throughout europe, i am also asking them to respect science, as reflected in the recent jrc report.
matching the timing of electrolysis and additional renewable energy coming into operation is, in practice, a major hurdle for investors.
instead, the number one measure to get us off fossil fuels, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce our dependence on foreign energy, to create green jobs, to fight energy poverty and to reduce our energy bills is the one that is still very little talked about, and i would call it the cinderella of history, which is energy efficiency.
so what are we waiting for to make energy efficiency the real story?
there is no energy union without solidarity, and that solidarity is lacking in the european union today, with poland unilaterally opposing russia's energy policy of dividing the countries of europe.
there should never be a european approval for nordstream and nordstream 2. these are two projects which openly threaten the political and energy cohesion of the european union.
when we talk about energy today, we cannot ignore the topic of skyrocketing electricity prices.
this is a flip side of a poorly planned and damaging to european economies green energy policy.
a clear example of this is the manipulation of the renewable energy certificates market, an almost 100% increase in nine months in the price of certificates.
without a profound change in this market, it is not possible to lower energy prices and to carry out any green transformation, which is the dream of the euroleft in particular.
for this reason, thinking of our citizens who bear the costs of the eu's climate policy every day, we should consider suspending the eu's energy and climate package as soon as possible and, above all, abolishing the green certificate system.
i'm very sorry that he didn't want to come here today to talk about polish coal and the energy transition.
the commission's report on the state of the energy union gives us a clear signal that the energy transition is at risk.
i therefore urge the commission to create a sustainable model here.
it emphasises the importance of climate change and its negative impact on the economy.
climate change is also taking its toll, with the resulting humanitarian catastrophe of the highest order.
we must strengthen our support for human rights and environmental defenders in somalia and support dialogue of civil society with the authorities.
madam president, it is true that somalia is facing a major political crisis, aggravated by the coronavirus pandemic and repeated climate shocks, which are worsening the humanitarian situation and contributing to the economic stagnation of the country.
the reopening of the western rail corridor would not only be an investment which tackles regional imbalance, but it would also be an investment in sustainable transport and assist our efforts to reduce carbon emissions.
it would not only benefit our all—ireland economy and communities, but our environment as well.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful organisms and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
the implementation of the digital markets act will provide users with a fair and predictable environment for the digital economy and will promote growth and competitiveness by introducing common rules in the single market.
the european year of youth should lead to a change in the way we involve young people in policy-making, decision-making on climate, social affairs and digital human development.
you act against the national interest of your own societies, because your societies want to be safe, they want energy security, they want financial security.
i believe that russia's demands for a euro-atlantic future for ukraine and its energy blackmail of the european union and its partner countries are unacceptable.
– madam president, the world does not come to rest: afghanistan, civil war in ethiopia, hunger as a result of climate change in madagascar, hunger and violent conflicts in the sahel, military escalations in yemen, displacement in the midst of a pandemic, to name just a few.
and i was on the delegation to the acp and for me it was my environment that allows me to work on policies that construct a better future for the people in partner countries.
in the face of climate change, resilience more than ever needs to be at the heart of our work in the regions systematically impacted by disasters and emergencies.
now the eu wants to step up its humanitarian action without worrying about making a mea culpa of a totally failed strategy, but instead worrying about finding new ways to encourage immigration, for example by using climate change as yet another excuse to trigger the reception mechanism.
unfortunately, even in this room, there are those who refuse to help desperate people fleeing violence, who tolerate the transport of migrants to the forest for freezing, who are afraid of strong climate action or who are outright deniers of change.
our approach is not only inhumane, but it's also very short-sighted, because the migrations that you're so afraid of will reach a much larger scale if we don't stop climate change.
but we must remember that food waste is a separate problem.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the environmental and digital transition facing our companies and our workers, a new way must be found to make this transition inclusive.
promoting sustainable governance practices is rightly mentioned in the report.
we know that there is no such thing as a fair working environment without participation and participation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the instruments of democracy in the workplace is now a necessity in order to manage the impact of the digital ecological transition on society and employment.
you're talking about the need to accelerate these ambitious energy, climate goals.
yes, we have said it many times: the climate must be protected, it must be saved, it must be changed in a way that will give future generations a better life.
that is, ladies and gentlemen, allowing the ets, the european carbon levy system, to drain the pockets of citizens.
the current policy of fighting climate change is accompanied by a very specific threat: rising energy prices and instability of supply.
you are also well aware that at this time there was another debate to be held today, one much more important to the average european man or woman: the debate on rising energy prices, inflation and poverty.
it is difficult to expect to carry out effective reforms to modernise the economy, the environment or digitalisation without the involvement of local authorities.
they are the same principles that poland agreed to and that brought us into the european union, because an independent judiciary is an investment-friendly climate.
our countries must enhance equity and administrative efficiency while protecting the environment and mitigating climate change.
but what if the un denounces that the judicial reform in italy leaves environmental crimes unpunished because of too short a limitation period, leading to substantial impunity for ecoreaters, who require complex investigations on a par with organized crime?
what if simplification becomes deregulation, promoting unreliable and inefficient technologies like carbon capture and storage, incinerators, gas infrastructure, methane, producing more polluting and climate-changing emissions?
an ambitious policy and funding agenda, adopted at eu and national level, will help us ensure a sustainable and inclusive recovery, so that europe can successfully transition to green and digital after the crisis and become more resilient to potential future crises.
and at the same time, we have an energy crisis and an economic crisis that is deepening, and thousands of businesses are closing down under the pressure of the negative factors that are building up.
poland has even threatened to use its veto to stop the eu's climate package if it does not receive the aid.
please stop humiliating poland and the poles and address the issues that are within your competence, such as speculative emissions trading.
that is why we still have to waste so much energy just to get what should actually be obvious: our body, our rights.
instead of dealing with the issues that are important to the people of europe, we waste time on debates that, in my opinion, do not make much sense.
we are running away from the energy price issue because for the european union institutions it is a direct admission of errors in the energy and climate policy.
it is easier to attack poland and its government than to prevent an energy crisis in europe, because it would be necessary to admit the wrong policy of speculative trading in co2 emissions.
the solution is to create sustainable mobility of all modes of transport, according to the characteristics of each territory.
the energy transition and the focus on sustainable mobility will penalize the most polluting vehicles to discourage their use.
we have long been calling on the commission to approve a posei in transport and energy, which is central to regions of my country such as madeira and the azores, supporting the extra costs of transport for people and goods and also serving the inland territories of portugal deprived of other means of transport than the road.
we have found that there are some very welcome attempts by the commission, for example the establishment of a social climate fund to offset the increased costs, but the risk of that instrument, as someone said before me, is that it is rather contradictory.
so the energy mix that we often talk about, the technology mix that we often talk about, is the only solution, so that the social impact of this ambitious transition does not become such that it turns the green deal that we're talking about into an experiment on the skin of families, on the skin of the most vulnerable in society.
the technology mix, technology neutrality is the solution to make the cost of transition sustainable, as are our environmental ambitions.
mr. president, if we make the price of gasoline two euros, we won't save the environment.
if we put a carbon tax on airline tickets, we're not going to improve air quality, we're going to take people off planes.
it's very easy to talk about solar energy, wind energy, but in the summer.
but it is becoming increasingly clear that today's transportation system is not sustainable.
for a variety of reasons: emissions, environmental impact, human health, of course.
it is worrying what is going on right now in europe with energy prices but we have to be aware and differentiate a bit between what is actually transport policy and what is the global market and other global effects on the issue.
a mix of taxation and carbon pricing provides incentives for the purchase of low emission vehicles, ensuring demand.
this is highlighted in the smart and sustainable mobility strategy.
we are adding brick by brick to this construction of the sustainable future of transport, the last one being yesterday with the ten-t regulation.
the emissions trading system (ets) was discussed in particular.
the measure envisaged by the commission was the creation of the social climate fund, which will channel around 25% of auction revenues from the new ets to counter energy and transport poverty.
the commission, also proposes that the member states dedicate all revenues from the existing and the new ets to these climate-related purposes.
apart from the social climate fund, all the others, as i said in my initial speech – the social fund, the just transition fund, the cohesion fund – are all envisaged to support this transition and the eventual impact of the ets on buildings and roads.
in transport policy, in particular, if you look at all the measures, a basket of measures we are proposing in our strategy, you will see that it all makes sense for a solid transition towards more sustainable and smart transport.
complex environmental challenges inevitably intersect with social challenges in the context of transport availability and accessibility, emission reduction and dependence on fossil fuels.
and this is only one part of the story, as our journey across europe highlighted many other issues that we still need to address to fully benefit from rail’s sustainability potential.
the public at large has discovered the train as a key agent against climate change.
the fourth railway package must be implemented, the regulations that fragment the european railway market must be abolished and railways must be supported with the same energy as airlines.
it's still worth remembering that we are facing a climate emergency that will hit us hard if we do nothing or not enough.
yes, the train is at the crossroads of climate, social, employment and european integration.
clearly, this is a good way to do things for the climate and for jobs.
the link between young people and rail is very important, on one hand because they are huge supporters of this more sustainable mode of transportation, but, on the other hand, because the transport sector needs more young people to join its workforce.
the commission is currently reviewing its decision from 2006 so as to take account of the experience gained since then in the management of the policy developments in the case law, the metoo movement, best practices across institutions, and the particularities of the post-pandemic working environment.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that we are in the 21st century, in the midst of a real biodiversity crisis, with entire populations of wild animals literally disappearing.
wild animals in circuses are forced to behave in ways that we don't see in their environment.
the use of animals in circuses poses a threat to public health, to circus workers and, because of the use of endangered species, to biodiversity.