last but not least, i would like to stress the commitment that this regulation should ensure the most consistent application of the mechanism in trade disputes relating to international trade agreements, covering the trade and sustainable development chapter.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is of the utmost importance to modernise and future-proof europe's multimodal transport infrastructure in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market and competitiveness, and to support the transition to more sustainable, more efficient and safer mobility.
i would like to add another matter which is absolutely relevant: the environment.
we therefore have a duty to strive for a rapid and effective transition to sustainable, smart and safe mobility by incorporating new technologies and strengthening the link between transport and infrastructure.
we continue to act in emergencies, pouring money on problems, when we need solidarity, sustainable and human rights-respecting responses.
it is a need of the people globally and specifically of the european union and latin america, not only in the fight against the pandemic and in cooperation for access to the vaccine for all as a fundamental right, but also in the construction of a robust recovery strategy that is attentive to combating inequalities, social exclusion and a recovery that is based on technological, economic and social innovation, focusing on the achievement of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda and that can leave no one behind.
the fight against climate change and the defence of the environment and human rights are increasingly interlinked and require a response based on multilateralism.
the need to respond to the plight of migrants and refugees requires determined, supportive and sustainable action, in line with the migration pact.
despite the persistent trend of shrinking civil society space, seeing citizens, especially young people, mobilizing around political and social causes, demanding more and better responses to climate change, in defense of democracy and human rights, shows us that another tomorrow is possible.
finally, a presidency which wants to put the climate at the centre of its agenda cannot have as one of its priorities the continuing ecological attack on the free trade agreement with mercosur, which is a sword hanging over the amazon and the ecological balance on a global scale.
i am talking about the way we produce and consume food in a globalised world and, given the risks to public health, the impacts on biodiversity and climate change mitigation, as well as the welfare of millions of animals in europe, i ask the commission and the council presidency whether they will actively seek to ensure that the decisions resulting from the negotiations on the common agricultural policy, now in the trilogue phase, are based on the european plate-to-platter strategy and the strategy for the preservation of biodiversity.
portugal has the opportunity to make its mark in the eu and set the pace in terms of recovery from the crisis, but also in the implementation of the european green deal and commitments to reduce emissions and combat climate change.
the digital transition and climate cannot create new poverty and new inequality.
on the contrary, they have all the conditions to generate sustainable and quality employment, employment with rights, decent employment.
the european citizens deserve a response that lives up to their expectations – a swift, fair and sustainable recovery.
it should also contribute to the structural objectives of the union like well-being, employment and yes, tackling climate change, as you well pointed out, madam lagarde.
i agree: we need economic growth, sustainable growth, respectful of nature, respectful of ecological balances.
a shift towards a green and sustainable transition, based on a digital transformation of citizens and businesses.
the facility should contribute to making eu economies more sustainable, more resilient and better prepared for the challenges posed by the green and digital transitions.
and this is just as true if we consider that on the one hand, social media can unite people around common goals (responses to the climate emergency, mobilizing for protests that demand political and social change, among many other examples), as it can, with equal ease, separate them, through misinformation campaigns, from the call to hate, violence, persecution.
madam president, whenever there are initiatives to deregulate finance, the talk is always the same, it is to help the economy, it is to help small and mediumsized enterprises and now, apparently, it is also to help the environment.
the people who will benefit from the capital markets recovery package are small companies, renewable energy producers and retail investors.
this is crucial for adequately translating their needs and skills into policies to achieve gender equality and a more peaceful, secure, just and sustainable world.
it underlines the importance of mainstreaming agenda perspective throughout all the sustainable development goals of agenda 2030 and its key principle not to leave anyone behind.
one of these new own resources is precisely the carbon emission adjustment mechanism at the border, as commissioner gentiloni has already mentioned.
climate action is the only way forward.
we are on the verge of a crucial shift towards a sustainable industrial policy towards clean energy and transitioning away from fossil fuels, towards smart and sustainable buildings, infrastructure, transportation and even food.
still, the climate crisis is not a challenge just for europe, but for the whole world.
europe is doing its part and its ambition cannot be met if we face the consequences of environmental dumping at the same time.
the eu carbon border adjustment mechanism is the tool to ensure that there is not a race to the bottom worldwide.
it must fulfil our duty to deliver on the climate transition and to ensure that no one is left behind.
dear colleagues from epp, these must not be at odds with climate ambition.
this is how we can tackle the climate crisis and encourage others to follow the same goal.
this is indeed an important step into building a global coalition for climate action.
madam president, europe needs to continue to lead the climate agenda as it has done.
and i ask you: can we accept that our businesses are being hurt by our climate ambition?
while others live with impunity in a climate dumping situation?
and for that, our companies cannot be put at a disadvantage for meeting our high environmental standards.
the free market we believe in, the private enterprise we value and the environment we respect do not tolerate unfair competition.
we must therefore also avoid the trick of moving companies to another country just to escape our ambitions and take advantage of the fact that they do not have to comply with stringent environmental standards.
sustainable investment promoting climate and digital transition, cohesion and job creation.
today the right does not want social and environmental indicators to be included in the european semester.
social and environmental objectives are objectives of economic policy.
furthermore, we must also implement the so long—discussed golden rule for sustainable investment, and we need a more inclusive semester and macroeconomic rules, not just about numbers, but also about the people and the environment.
the time is now, as the challenges of automation, technological unemployment, poverty, gender inequality, mitigating the impacts of climate change, rural depopulation and tackling the structural inefficiencies of current social supports demonstrate that there is no time to waste.
if, on the one hand, we cannot waste resources or indulge in fraud or corruption, on the other hand, we cannot accept the concentration in the state of funds which belong to the europeans, to the people.
they should also improve the long-term competitiveness and sustainable growth prospects of member states, address the challenges and reap the benefits of the green and digital transitions and the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
we must not look at agriculture in a one-sided way, or at tourism, or even at the environment: we must look at the whole of europe and look across the board to meet the needs of rural areas and the people of europe.
mr president, commissioner, i thank my colleague, mr norbert lins, for the pertinent questions, but i am sure that we differ on the position on what role and what investments should be made in the rural world to fix people, to strengthen cohesion, to boost its economy and to regenerate biodiversity.
the cap should be redesigned to adapt to the social, economic and climate challenges of the 21st century, with a focus on more extensive, organic, local and plant-based production.
new own resources that are in line with policies such as climate, digital, a fairer tax policy, combat fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, which no longer burden citizens, but those who today do not pay taxes like the rest of the companies, that is, the big digital multinationals and the speculators in financial transactions.
it has widened inequality and introduced huge setbacks to the commitments made in the attempt to create a new partnership anchored in mutual responsibility for problem solving as well as sustainable and inclusive development of the two continents.
this partnership has all the conditions to pursue these objectives at political, economic, social and environmental level.
their availability and open and secure international exchange can be a key added value and a breakthrough in building an autonomous european digital economy and contribute to improving health, living conditions and the environment.
data is crucial for economic growth, sustainable development and innovation in europe.
finally, data-driven technologies should also contribute to the achievement of climate objectives.
the digital transition, if implemented with the right speed and ambition, can greatly improve the chances of achieving climate neutrality by 2050.
the european data strategy does not address the fundamental question of the ownership of 'data', which should always be that of those who originated it in the first place (usually citizens in their interactions with the machine) and not of the actors who collected and classified it.
the report also makes a number of recommendations in very different areas, such as the environment, regional cooperation, the media, the rule of law, among others, with the aim of contributing to the modernisation of the country and providing new horizons for the quality of life of the new generations and progress towards greater alignment with european policies.
mr president, i have often heard scientists complain that they waste time preparing applications that are too bureaucratic.
mr president, the protection of citizens and the environment is a matter for the member states.
the pandemic has revealed that, while crisis-prepared, the european union needs to strengthen its capacity to respond to any kind of adversity that threatens our health and our environment.
we have made changes to make this fund reach more workers, to make it more accessible, to make it more inclusive, because after this digital transition, after this globalization and also after this transition to a low-carbon economy, jobs will be destroyed, but jobs will be created and the european union will be there to be able to support all its workers so that there is greater employability, to support the most vulnerable and to facilitate the qualification of these workers.
in addition to the question of tariffs, in addition to the question of intellectual property, there is of course also the question of sustainability.
i believe that we cannot conclude an agreement - an investment agreement or a trade agreement - if we do not guarantee that workers' rights are respected, that environmental standards are respected, that the paris agreement on climate change is implemented and, above all, that there are enforcement possibilities.
we must enter a new phase in relations with delhi, relaunch strategic partnerships with a strong parliamentary dimension, promote an open and demanding dialogue on respect for human rights and the role of civil society, work towards an investment protection agreement, act together against climate change.
they include the right to universal, free and quality education from early childhood, the right to universal, free and quality health services, the right to housing, the right to play, access to sports, culture, civic participation, to live in an environment of peace and solidarity, and the right to have parents and carers with work and decent pay and time to devote to their children, our future.
we ask for latin america what we know is needed in the european union, knowing that the lack of aid to this region will prevent it from making progress in its peace processes, reducing inequalities and keeping up with the challenges of the future, the digital and climate transitions.
madam president, energy is a basic commodity which must be affordable for everyone.
however, this strategy will increase the price of electricity, making it difficult for our industry to be viable and leading households to suffer from dramatic energy poverty.
the union's mission should be to ensure an energy infrastructure with sufficient capacity to enable member states to choose an energy mix that ensures their stable supply, without depending on third countries.
this strategy of alleged integration, however, excludes sources such as nuclear energy, an autonomous source, with on-demand and affordable production, which has reduced co2 emissions by more than sixty gigatons.
madam president, it is essential that the european commission puts greater emphasis and financial support to hydrogen as an excellent zero-emissions alternative to traditional fuels.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy for the integration of energy systems is a strategy which the european institutions have decided to adopt in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves with the so-called green deal.
challenging objectives, but objectives that are within the reach of a europe which is the area of the world that has accepted these challenges the most: sustainability challenges balanced with economic development challenges, accessible to all; so don't challenge them to contradict each other.
the principle of reality must prevail, and it is right to take energy efficiency as a major pillar, but energy efficiency cannot be separated from cost efficiency: energy costs must be affordable for citizens and businesses.
madam president, commissioner, combating climate change is not just a challenge of civilisation and sustainability.
it is an opportunity to equip the energy union with a renewable energy-based system that makes a decisive contribution to carbon neutrality, supports the competitiveness of the european economy and is fair and effective in eradicating energy poverty.
the reports we are discussing here are a strong contribution by the european parliament to the successful implementation of the climate law and its objectives.
delivering on energy system integration and hydrogen strategies requires a clear and long-term vision and reporting framework, a just transition and an ambitious focus on scientific development and technological innovation, and on the production, storage, transmission and use of renewable energy and, in particular, green hydrogen.
it's not just the energy system that we're transforming.
it is a new model of economic and social organisation that we are building, a new cycle of opportunities to create wealth, jobs and a better quality of life, taking european leadership on the way to a less unequal, more sustainable and better quality of life society.
the fight against climate change is urgent and the eu must take the lead.
it is precisely cross-sector approaches, cross-sector linkages, that are crucial in the next step in the green transition, because only by going cross-sector can we really fight climate change.
but hydrogen requires large amounts of green renewable energy.
as the european parliament's rapporteur on the eu's offshore strategy, i am working to harness the potential of the seas by creating an ambitious intersectoral link so that green hydrogen can be produced on the basis of green power from offshore wind, and by integrating wind energy, through power-to-x and also in district heating, so that green renewable energy can fill much more of our energy supply than it does today.
madam president, the long process of privatisation in the energy sector, promoted and encouraged by the european union, is contrary to national interests and has contributed to the destruction of the productive apparatus and skilled employment, thus increasing the external dependence of countries such as portugal.
under the pretext of a green transition, radical energy closures and industrial restructuring are already in sight with a view to the early decommissioning of production units based on conventional energy sources with the harmful consequences for the productive and industrial capacity of states and without any environmental benefit.
will they play only a notarial role, facilitating private investment, once again placing the question of energy sovereignty at the mercy of the sacred market and leaving states and peoples hostage to the interests of the large economic and multinational groups in the sector?
we focused the just transition fund on the social consequences of the transition, not just – although it’s important – the reskilling of workers but, far beyond that, investment in job creation at a local level in the most affected regions through economic diversification and smes, through the social infrastructures and services in the local communities, and by also tackling energy poverty, which is critical in many of our regions and in many of our countries.
we also put climate conditionality into the fund.
half of this fund will only be available to those who commit to the climate targets and, yes, we put the green reward mechanism in the instrument.
the closure is justified for environmental reasons, but it will greatly increase the company's profits and cause the layoffs of hundreds of workers.
it is urgent to develop an innovative and environmentally sustainable economic project throughout this vast area and to support the retraining of workers.
this should be seen globally, but actions should be implemented at local level, with particular attention to areas where the climate is more adverse and where access to services is limited or non-existent, without forgetting the specificities of territories with low population density, as well as the outermost regions.
cohesion policy instruments are key to leveraging projects at local and regional level, in conjunction with the union's climate and digital objectives, which aim to ensure equal opportunities in all regions of the union.
the climate emergency and its impact on human rights, especially on the poorest communities and vulnerable groups of the world's population, are undeniable.
in this context, the importance of the action of human rights defenders, environmentalists and indigenous communities, the true guardians of the planet's biodiversity, is growing, and it is terrifying to see that year after year the number of those who are murdered grows, victims of criminalization and intimidation covered by the greatest impunity.
this is why the european union must step up its support for human rights and environmental activists, ensure that the right of people to prior, free and informed consent is respected, and pave the way for the introduction of the crime of ecocide into the international legal order.
if we are not able to defend the environment and those who defend us, we will not be able to defend anything else.
reviving the european economy requires a vision of the future that is able to combine sustainability, competitiveness and social justice.
we cannot continue to waste the regenerative potential that immigrants bring to our societies by condemning them, so often, to death on avoidable routes.
only a negotiated political solution, respecting the basic principles of the osce, will be able to determine the future of the region in a peaceful, lasting and sustainable way.
this new crisis reminds us that climate change is no longer a matter of dispute and calls for a fundamental change in the way we manage agricultural disasters.
i fear that these climate changes are causing these cases to become more frequent, so we certainly need to be able to jump in with a crisis reserve and help farmers, as we know how to help after covid with a recovery plan, otherwise farmers will fail and the next crises will simply not survive such cases.
this is coupled with their vulnerability to increasing climate change, which poses significant additional risks not only to agricultural activity but to food systems as a whole.
of course, redoubled efforts are needed to effectively deliver on our shared commitment to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, but also to adopt concrete adaptation measures that mitigate threats, protect farmers' incomes and prevent desertification of our rural areas.
but we also talk, for example, about supporting investments that increase fair access to water and its efficient and sustainable use, particularly in the most vulnerable regions such as the mediterranean regions, let me remind you here, where higher temperatures and reduced rainfall are threatening ever larger rural areas, condemning them to desertification.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of today's world bee day, i would like to remind you of their enormous importance, but also of the increasingly significant impact of climate change.
this crisis shows that farmers are indeed the first victims of climate change.
we have a whole series of events like this that dramatically affect agriculture: disasters (these are climate-related), droughts, floods, hurricanes, frosts, fires that increasingly affect european agriculture.
in order for member states to be able to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the transition processes in the areas of sustainability and digitalisation, it is essential that the european union's impositions and constraints be eliminated through so-called economic governance and that member states have the means, including financial means, to promote these transitions within the framework of cohesion policy.
and, interestingly, it continues to see no competition problems in fiscal dumping, social dumping, labour dumping and environmental dumping, which continue to be the business model of most eu member states.
mr president, the recovery and protection of biodiversity are fundamental for the environment, the economy and society.
only with healthy species and habitats will we have a resilient environment ready to respond to imbalances like climate change.
fisheries and aquaculture depend on a healthy and diverse environment.
so long before the european green deal, they have been adapting to fishing and production techniques with a lower impact on the environment.
we must ensure that there is a balance and sustainability in the exploitation of resources and the preservation of the environment.
we must instead ensure that they are carried out with appropriate sustainability in all areas.
the fight against climate change, the defence of human rights, the rule of law, peace and security, sustainable development are challenges that require global responses and reinforce the importance of multilateralism when, paradoxically, so many put it in question.
the programme is dedicating 80 billion euros to promote eu objectives worldwide, including the sustainable development goals and the climate objectives.
madam president, commissioner, climate change has an impact on infrastructure and the economy, but it also has social effects which cannot be ignored.
measures to make fisheries and aquaculture more resilient imply environmental, economic and social sustainability.
the measures to mitigate and combat climate change will therefore also have to guarantee employment.
young people are better prepared for issues related to biodiversity, environmental protection and the digital transition.
madam president, commissioner, as a child of a fishing family, i learned very early on what sustainability means and the commitment it entails.
now, as climate change announces irreversible consequences and new constraints, we who live by the sea want to prioritise the measures we will need to adapt to the new certainties.
we welcome the importance that the european strategy for adaptation to climate change gives to local communities and we want to take advantage of it by being protagonists in information, knowledge, training and diversification.
economic activities linked to the sea are more sustainable today thanks to the efforts of coastal communities.
madam president, the issue of climate—resilient fisheries and aquaculture is indeed very important.
but we need to address the negative impacts of fisheries on climate change, and we can start to tackle the problem by fully implementing the common fisheries policy and the related legislation that we already have.
a recent study published by the scientific journal nature showed that industrial fishing – in particular, bottom trawling – generates more co2 emissions than air travel.
because when trawls are dragged along the sea floor, large amounts of carbon are released, which increases global warming and makes the sea more acidic.
without this ban, we cannot achieve climate neutrality, and this is the only option if we want to be coherent with the european green deal and the eu’s targets to reduce co2 emissions.
together, they will help us navigate towards a sustainable and fair recovery that leaves no one behind.
finally, the idea of an alternative set of indicators to measure economic, social and environmental progress was also welcome, supplementing gdp as a welfare measure for inclusive and sustainable growth.
based on your input and concrete proposals for the implementation of the social pillar, including on key targets, we have designed a long-term vision and a coherent and ambitious roadmap to shape our post-pandemic economies and societies in a fairer, more inclusive and sustainable manner so as to improve the well-being of our citizens.
it would be unacceptable to waste this opportunity for people to reconcile with the european project.
we need long-term solutions that are socially sustainable.
this gender gap is worrying, because stem careers are being touted as the jobs of the future, driving innovation, social well-being, inclusive growth and sustainable development.
it’s clear that in this endeavour we need measures that will mitigate the impact on farmers when they need to make structural adaptations to the way they produce, and at the same time we acknowledge the need for sustainable food systems, the ethical dimensions around farming animals and the need to find solutions that involve farmers but society at large.
in your resolution, you have highlighted the need for a more comprehensive food policy and well-functioning supply chain where all steps in the chain take their responsibility for more sustainability.
it is what set in motion the farm-to-fork strategy and the actions we are discussing today in the area of animal welfare are very important building blocks in our sustainable food policy.
we should listen to our citizens’ voices and make this transition towards a sustainable approach as smooth as possible.
they are not to be employed under different conditions, but they may need to have a slightly different working environment.
but i also stress the thematic concentration on the climate and social priorities at the initiative of this parliament, or the fact that the outermost regions of europe now have an allocation defined in the regulation of 3.5% of the entire interreg for these regions alone.
it is essential to focus on more flexibility and less red tape in accessing european funds, to channel cohesion policy towards projects that contribute to a smarter europe, with a focus on digitalisation and the creation of new jobs; on sustainable growth, investing in the circular economy, the fight against climate change, the energy transition and renewable energies.
climate science, cyber security, artificial intelligence, medical research - these are all areas where supercomputers are becoming indispensable.
so when we talk about sustainable development, women's rights and especially sexual and reproductive rights must be clearly at the centre.
to achieve these goals, we need sustainable financing and this is why i am especially proud of our recent release of eur 700 million to support the global partnership for education over the next seven years.
climate action is the only way forward.
the european climate law which we have now adopted, i hope, is finally the symbol of the union's commitment to tackling climate change.
now, as we start the climate transition, it's urgent to combine two fundamental dimensions, and this is my main message: green ambition with a strong social heart.
this transition will have impacts on our lives in society, in transport, in industry, in employment, in energy, in agriculture.
our goal, our duty, is to ensure that we have a just transition where no one is left behind, with sustainable transportation that is accessible to all, public for the most part, but also for individuals, with opportunities for all, with programs to support training, with programs to create green jobs, with decent housing, with housing where winter doesn't mean cold inside.
today, with the european climate law, with the just transition fund, but also with the european pillar of social rights, reinforced by the recent porto summit, we have the opportunity to make a difference for the planet and for people.
madam president, vice president, madam secretary of state, today we are passing legislation that will guide us to our ambitious climate goals and make europe the first carbon neutral continent by 2050. we can't explore the planet the way we've been doing it, and anyone who thinks otherwise is very wrong.
today we are responding here to the demands of young people, but also to all citizens, because we will be creating healthier and more sustainable environments.
the impacts of climate change on our health and well-being are well defined, as are the solutions to mitigate them.
madam president, the instrument we are discussing here today is an important instrument because we know that it has been public investment, public policies, the public sector that has done the most, and has been insufficient, to combat climate change.
the commission, which says that we will need 260 billion euros of investment to tackle the climate challenge, allocates to an instrument with the aim of financing public investment in this same priority, in a funding gap, less than 0.1% of these investment needs, less than one thousandth of what is needed, with all the rest being debt.
it is designed to help member states and regions accelerate their transition to a carbon-neutral economy, a key objective in combating the climate crisis.
now is the time for member states to prepare public, national and local structures without delay to start building solid and innovative projects that contribute to climate goals, while also taking into account the need to leave no one behind in this transformation process.
an agreement which, although some - it is true - want to discredit, it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is that it is true that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is the new fund, with a budget of eur 6 108 million, will contribute to more sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and processing, support a blue economy and coastal communities and promote international ocean governance.
we do not lose sight of the fact that the fund has been negotiated in an exceptionally difficult environment, such as the loss of fisheries as a result of brexit, the paralysis of the value chain of sea products due to covid-19, the difficulties in achieving a real generational changeover, the need to offer better conditions to fishing vessels while continuing to fight against overcapacity, the need to simplify bureaucracy in order to access these funds or the obligations arising from the cfp, such as the landing obligation and achieving maximum sustainable yield.
it contains no harmful subsidies, no aid for the construction or acquisition of new fishing vessels, no increase in engine power, no direct subsidies for the increase in fishing capacity of vessels over 24 metres and only for vessels up to 24 and solely for the purpose of improving safety, working conditions or energy efficiency.
we agree that tackling biodiversity loss and maintaining ecosystems in good condition will require significant public and private investment at national and european level.
the new emff also allows for the financing of investments that improve the energy efficiency, safety and working conditions of eu fishing vessels, while ensuring the sustainability of the sector.
but above all, we have managed to reach an agreement which obliges us to preserve and promote the delicate balance between environmental, social and economic considerations.
the commission would definitely have preferred a lower financial cap for fleet measures to secure more funding for core priorities such as sustainable fishing, fisheries control, collection of scientific data, innovation or local development.
and as several of you said today, we had clearly hoped for a specific binding target or financial ring-fencing for climate objectives or for the protection of biodiversity.
second, because the emfaf will deliver on the objectives of the european green deal as regards the protection of marine biodiversity, the full transition to sustainable and low impact fishing and aquaculture, and contribute to our decarbonisation goals.
in this context, as the commission committed in the statement that accompanies the agreed text, let me be very clear: we will actively encourage member states to reach the overall ambition in terms of annual spending under the multiannual framework to tackle biodiversity loss.
the new emfaf will be geared towards the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources in line with our commitment under sustainable development goal 14. it will help us make further progress towards sustainable fisheries.
it will promote low impact and low carbon fishing techniques.
the new emfaf will also contribute to the sector’s economic and social sustainability.
the fund will continue to compensate the additional costs stemming from the specific situation of these regions and, in addition, will put in place the conditions for a profitable and sustainable blue economy.
the emfaf will not only contribute to sustainability in the eu, but dedicated funds will also be available to finance eu action on international ocean governance.
it is not about fishing more or increasing the fleet, it is about fishing better and in a sustainable way, with better conditions, including working conditions.
in portugal, sustainable fishing gear may soon disappear.
we regret that this is happening in regions such as madeira and the azores, for whom sustainable art, the art of fishing, is also a form of sustainability and economy.
the emff will make an important contribution to the environmental, economic and social sustainability of the blue economy and in particular of fisheries and aquaculture.
madam president, i want to welcome this interinstitutional agreement because it improves the fund we had, makes it a more flexible and simple tool and incorporates lessons learned from the pandemic, climate objectives and new problems, such as those associated with brexit.
– madam president, we have been destroying the oceans for many decades, and with this european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund, we believe we will continue to do so because, in a time of climate emergency, we should not be aiming for the lowest common denominator.
to conclude, the lack of ambition and concrete commitments concerning climate goals and biodiversity protection dictates that we, the greens, cannot support this final agreement.
in full synergy with the other eu mechanisms, notably the implementation of nextgenerationeu, which will fund national recovery and resilience plans, cohesion policy will also make a substantial contribution to achieving a green, digital and sustainable growth transition.
the privatisation of public services, transport, energy and communications, the disinvestment in equipment and infrastructure, the degradation and increase in the cost of the service provided to the population and the precariousness of labour relations are the hallmarks of this mechanism.
the european union should actively support the creation of conditions for a sustainable ceasefire, the only way for international humanitarian aid teams to have urgent and safe access to the territory, and mobilize the necessary aid to populations in severe suffering and severe food insecurity.
one of these instruments is what we are discussing here today: the union's 2030 agenda for the environment.
contrary to what extremists such as reactionary denialists or environmental terrorists want, the programme makes it possible to reconcile growth with respect for the environment, working to decouple economic growth from resource use and introducing the concept of a sustainable welfare economy.
it will also be an instrument for the protection of biodiversity, the zero pollution ambition and, of course, climate neutrality.
it will also provide the environmental climate data on the european union's overall efforts needed to assess progress and enable policy-makers and all europeans to know whether the union and its member states are on track to achieve the promised results.
this programme is of the utmost importance as the concrete expression of our environmental and climate ambitions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the antarctic.
they are, because their many and unique ecosystems are under pressure from climate change, pollution, overfishing, ocean acidification and harmful tourism.
how can we prevent further decline in antarctica and give biodiversity a chance to recover?
only by strictly protecting the antarctic can we ensure the health of our oceans, their function as a carbon sink, and increase the resilience of these marine ecosystems to the effects of climate change.
global warming is accelerating at the poles.
antarctica, the last uninhabited continent, is home to an enormous variety of biodiversity and a host of red-listed species.
the ocean is not just a superb carbon sink that absorbs 90 percent of the temperature increase from global warming.
as the ice melts faster, it can change the climate very quickly all the way to sweden.
as antarctica is both better protected, for example, from overfishing, and ahead of the rest of the world in the climate crisis, scientists can gain access to study the effects of global warming.
antarctica is a sanctuary of biodiversity and it must be protected.
because these are ecosystems that are extremely rich in wildlife and are also key areas for mitigating the impacts of climate change.
we need to review the stability and growth pact, anchored in the long-term objectives of the european union, based on a resilient institutional framework with a new understanding of debt sustainability.
instead of focusing solely on debt ratios, which have often been a drag on growth, we need to focus on ensuring the sustainability of sovereign debt and sustainable and inclusive growth in line with european commitments.
quality investment translates into quality public finances and quality public finances improve the long-term sustainability of debt and improve the potential growth of economies.
it is up to all of us to ensure that the review of the macroeconomic legislative framework makes it simpler, more transparent, more democratic and with greater ownership by member states, based on a community approach that promotes sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
health and environmental challenges, biodiversity and climate protection require us to step up our efforts, investing first and foremost in science, regulatory research and education.
– mr president, as i have said from the beginning, the message my colleagues wanted to bring to you today is that we are strongly committed to animal welfare, while mindful of our responsibility to ensure the protection of health and the environment.
they are covered by dgs sante, environment and grow.
concerning veterinary medicines, we have a regulation from 2019, which becomes applicable on 28 january 2022. it calls for assessing the feasibility of an active, substance—based review system for the environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products.
in addition, we have other initiatives, like the chemical strategy for sustainability, which will include a strong commitment to promote alternative methods and the use of digital technologies and advanced methods to move away from unnecessary animal testing in both the eu and beyond.
the commission has presented emergency measures to reduce the threshold for the use of slots and thus avoid the so-called 'ghost thefts', an ecological aberration that we all have here in this house, denounced, and the digital green certificate to harmonise health measures across europe.
we need more action to ensure a recovery of the sector that is socially responsible, sustainable and in line with the eu's climate objectives.
there is talk of €30 billion of public aid in europe for this sector, but without any climate or social counterpart.
all companies today have an interest in entering the ecological transition.
this is a way of ensuring that this sector is quickly included in the successful ecological transition.
finally, i would ask you one last time, madam commissioner, to take real action to combat social dumping which, in addition to the existing environmental and climate externalities, gives a sometimes unfair competitive advantage over other modes of transport such as rail, at a time when we are in the european year of the train.
i hope, therefore, that i can count on your support, madam commissioner, to set up the first lines of thinking, for example on a kerosene tax or the end of the free allowances for polluting rights which aviation currently enjoys in the eu's emissions trading system.
we will not have exactly the same philosophical views according to the political groups, but we have the same objective: that no one remains on the edge of the road, that no one is responsible for not entering the ecological transition and at the same time triggering a new social crisis in this sector.
in the sustainable and smart mobility strategy adopted in december last year, we have reaffirmed the strong commitment towards promoting high social standards in the aviation sector.
and in addition, and in light of the eu’s sustainable, smart mobility strategy, we also need to assess how we can further promote social responsibility as well as environmental sustainability.
so, as i said, we also need to assess how we can further promote social responsibility as well as environmental sustainability while avoiding suboptimal rules.
putting additional pressure on the aviation industry in the form of new emissions regulations or social rights is the worst possible choice at this difficult time.
it is true that much of this support came from the european institutions, but it was differentiated and discriminatory, putting the sustainability of several flag companies at risk.
it was a waste.
the common fisheries policy aims to ensure the long-term social, economic and environmental sustainability of fisheries.
to ensure the generational renewal that is essential for the continuity of fishing activity, there needs to be greater social recognition of the activity and its importance for the supply of healthy food, sustainably produced in habitats in good environmental condition and contributing to the health of europeans.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the context of the union's policy on the environment.
the geographical position of these regions requires the promotion of effective territorial cohesion, with a focus on maritime and air mobility policies that bring these territories closer together and ensure connectivity, minimising the costs of passenger and freight transport and reducing their environmental impacts.
the implementation of the green deal must include a blue pact to protect ocean resources and develop maritime potential, and the cap must take account of the specificities of agricultural methods, the protection of biodiversity and the integral and sustainable development of rural areas.
promoting sustainable tourism by supporting pilot projects for green and digital solutions is the best path to economic development.
fit for 55 will ensure the climate transition and the achievement of the objectives of the climate act.
only with everyone on board will we be able to transition to more sustainable mobility.
long awaited reforms of the political system, of the financial system, of the energy sector, of the judiciary.
i hope that it can be implemented as soon as possible and that the improvements, especially in the areas of the rule of law, human rights and environmental protection, can also continue to improve living conditions in these candidate countries.
we need economic reforms and rules that push for green and social investments to pursue sustainable well-being for all.
we need the commitment of the ec, which will do everything it can to make budgetary rules more comprehensible, more transparent, more democratic and, above all, to enable economic recovery and to be friendly to cohesion, investment for the digital and climate transition, economic growth.
mr president, alongside the climate change crisis, our planet is beset by an unprecedented crisis of biodiversity loss.
this is the time to step up our efforts against this crisis and thus achieve the sustainable development goals.
the protection of biodiversity must be an integral part of the eu's external policy, particularly in its relations with low- and middle-income countries.
funding and technical assistance should be made available to these countries, avoiding further loss of biodiversity that affects everyone.
special attention should also be paid to our outermost regions and overseas territories which represent around 80% of biodiversity in the european union and are vulnerable to both human and natural influences.
by protecting our nature, our biodiversity, we are also ensuring the best use of our planet's resources and a decent future for future generations.
we therefore need a european strategy for tourism and a specific heading in the long-term eu budget that will bring stability and sustainability to the sector and safeguard jobs and overcome the specific challenges faced by businesses, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
the increase in energy prices in europe over the past few months is posing an unprecedented challenge to the lives of european citizens.
this increase is related to external factors such as the dependence on third countries for energy supply, and not to the climate change, although this has triggered speculation in the market for buying and selling emission allowances.
in addition, it will be necessary to launch a package of social measures to compensate our citizens for the increased burdens they will have to bear, with the aim of reducing energy poverty, a reality that affects millions of europeans.
in parallel, the 'fit for 55' legislative package aims to ensure more climate action.
in this energy price crisis, improving energy efficiency across the eu will play a crucial role, as will accelerating the transition to renewable energy, to the detriment of fossil fuels, including through additional investment.
this will ensure the protection of the most vulnerable groups and at the same time european competitiveness and the climate transition, and specifically the necessary reduction of emissions.
– the european union must react to the energy price crisis with a set of measures at eu level that member states can implement to face the increases.
although the overall gas consumption in europe has decreased from the peak of over 500 million cubic meters in 2010 to less than 380 million cubic meters in 2020, household owners, that account for almost 30% of eu’s energy consumption, are still finding it difficult to switch to new renewable energy sources and over 35% of them still rely on natural gas.
ambitious measures must be undertaken swiftly to tackle energy poverty and protect the most vulnerable citizens and businesses.
this energy crisis is not a national issue, and should be a reminder that renewable energy is part of our future, thus the solutions must be at eu level.
portugal is one of the eu countries with the highest energy costs.
the causes identified by the european commission, such as increased demand for gas after the resumption of economic activities, low levels of storage or the rise in the price of carbon allowances on the european market, are not convincing.
it is clear that the shortage of energy prices is not unconnected to the process of liberalization, privatization and deregulation in the sector that has taken place in recent decades, carried out by successive ps, psd/cds governments with the consent of the eu.
the results are visible: in addition to the price increases, employment with rights has decreased, national interests and energy sovereignty have been disregarded, economic, social and environmental problems have been ignored, and the defence of a quality public service has been disregarded.
and as the energy deficit and the price of energy increase, so do the profits of the monopoly groups that dominate the sector.
energy is a public good and energy supply and affordability is an essential public service.
the energy sector, as a strategic sector, is vital to national independence and sovereignty and cannot be subordinated to private interests.
a good strategy, which we all want, because we who believe in environmental practices, this is not ideological, it is not left or right, we all want it, farmers want it, but it has to be based on science, it has to have its agents to be able to use it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in order for the farm to fork strategy to achieve its objectives, it must be consistent with the other policies of the union, all of them: agricultural, trade, biodiversity, etc., which is not the case at present.
finally, the commission must ensure that free trade agreements create sustainable and fair food systems.
now the jrc study is not an impact assessment of the farm to fork or the biodiversity strategies.
and overall, the cap strategic plans will present how each member state will achieve the nine specific objectives related to the environment, climate and social dimensions of sustainability.
so the cap strategic plans are going to be key in promoting sustainable practices on farms.
yes, and we are deploying all efforts to establish partnerships to move towards sustainable food systems globally so that eu farmers are not disadvantaged compared to third country producers.
but most of all, we need to be inclusive and in order to make farm to fork a reality it needs to benefit the consumers, it needs to benefit the farmers, it needs to benefit the producers, and it needs to benefit the environment.
and by being inclusive, by talking – and i’m going to always be available to discuss again and again because i heard your concerns – by doing this, i believe that we can move forward and set the eu on the path to a sustainable future.
as the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) and the intergovernmental science—policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes) have forewarned, if we do not take action now to halt the climate crisis and the loss of biodiversity, this will undoubtedly lead to higher food prices and less food security worldwide.
those who dominate the food and drink industry, who sell us ultra-processed food and soft drinks, high in sugar, salt and fat, won’t profit from the change to a more healthy food environment, fair and true pricing and crystal-clear labelling.
but the animals, the caring farmers, the climate, our ecosystems and the consumers will certainly benefit from this transition.
we will continue our fight for sustainable food systems, animal rights and animal welfare, healthy diets and a resilient future for farmers.
food is not only energy, it is also pleasure - especially if it is of high quality.
and if we don't, then everything we do here is a waste of love anyway.
i agree that the agricultural sector needs to contribute to the union's desire to better protect the environment and ensure a healthier life for all citizens.
agriculture has an important role to play, from the quality of food to reducing the amount of pollutants released into the environment.
we already have an energy crisis, largely caused by the unrealism of the "get ready for 55" package.
i'm sure no one wants to have a food crisis caused by imposing environmental restrictions without serious consideration.
the right of states to determine their own food and agricultural systems and the right to produce and consume healthy and culturally appropriate food, recognising food sovereignty as a constitutional right of peoples; the defence of local production and the shortening of production-consumption cycles, as well as the reversal of the liberalisation and deregulation of world trade; the political decision to guarantee small and medium-sized farmers a decent and stable income and their effective participation in an agro-ecological transition; agro-ecological and localised production by small and medium-sized farmers, which respects food and coexists with the natural environment, not using harmful pesticides and chemical fertilizers; the defence of small and family farming and agriculture as using resources in the most balanced way, either through a broad diversification of production or by having a local consumer, even if the average producer is a local consumer, because the potential of the products is fixed.
hungary has achieved that energy poverty is not generalised by reducing the previously introduced recession.
at the moment, my countrymen are panicking about the skyrocketing cost of energy.
before the crisis, my region of the grand est was already the region in france most affected by energy poverty.
the european semester is being whitewashed, given a social and ecological cloak in an attempt to preserve an instrument which has already proved to be a weapon against social progress.
madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, in the debate on the 2022 budget we have two fundamental points: the fulfilment of the commitments made in the 21-27 multiannual budget, on the expenditure side and the revenue side, including respect for the timetable for the new own resources, and the contribution of the budget to the post-covid recovery and the creation of an economic and social environment that supports the internal and external ambitions of the european union.
but, commissioner, the european programmes which give priority to the european dimension, managed, from the outset, by the commission, are also the instruments of excellence for economic recovery, economic recovery which is to be innovative, with a view to a carbon-neutral economy based on a just, green and digital transition.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, the right to a healthy environment has recently been recognised by the united nations human rights council, but here in the european union we have to do more.
the link between the environment and human and animal health has long been recognised in the single health perspective for which we have worked so hard to be included in a transversal way in european policies.
the influence of the environment on our health is undeniable, whether through local determinants such as air and water quality, as well as exposure to harmful agents, or due to climate change, natural disasters, which particularly affect communities in the most vulnerable territories, such as the outermost regions.
only by protecting our health and our environment holistically will we be able to ensure the survival of our planet and our biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no one, absolutely no one, no other economic power has done as much as we have in the fight against climate change.
the next decade, with the legislative initiatives running in this parliament, will be the decade of the shift to a new paradigm of sustainability.
europeans, and in particular the younger generations, are no longer prepared to tolerate the continued abuse of the planet and its biodiversity.
it is no longer enough to do our jobs well and have a society that develops in a sustainable way.
we must also put pressure on other countries, and in particular those that pollute the most, to do so, to reduce their emissions quickly.
but also that society and environmental organizations have the courage to say so and to direct their action also to other regions of the globe where little or very little is done.
i want, and i hope, that the commission and the council will pursue similar ambitions on key issues such as nationally determined targets and the mobilisation of funding not only for climate change mitigation but also for adaptation.
the united nations climate change conference in glasgow, uk (cop 26), to be held from 31 october to 12 november, has the potential to be one of the most significant moments in the history of our fight against climate change.
to do that, we need more commitment and commitment in this fight and, in particular, in reducing emissions.
commitments to finance climate change mitigation and adaptation measures should also be stepped up, with particular consideration to be given to low- and middle-income countries that are most vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change.
only through collective and global efforts will we be able to achieve the decarbonisation of the economy that is intended to be achieved with the current climate and energy transition, with a view to climate neutrality by 2050.
the european union has demonstrated its commitment to combating climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is therefore important that member states provide quality and sustainable education and training that is accessible to all, and the european education area programme is an important help in this regard.
the hungarian higher education model change, which aims to improve the competitiveness of universities and increase their funding, can serve as a good example, as it seeks to create a more predictable operating environment, to provide students with a better quality education.
mr president, the european union presented itself in glasgow at cop 26 with the false image of the climate champion.
the approach to climate change, whether in the field of combating or adapting, is characterised by insufficient and inadequate measures, unrelated to genuine social justice objectives and with questionable environmental outcomes, based on market solutions such as emissions trading or green taxation, which have already revealed their ineffectiveness and perversity.
production capacity is destroyed and emissions are limited to crossing the border, moving a few kilometres.
a path that involves public control of strategic sectors such as energy, the encouragement of local production and consumption, fair regulation of international trade, mobility policies that enhance public transport, a normative approach to emission reduction as opposed to a market approach.
the pharmaceutical strategy is one of the pillars of the european health union and seeks to ensure access to innovative medicines at affordable prices for patients; to address unmet medical needs, for example in the areas of antimicrobial resistance, cancer and rare diseases; to support the competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the eu pharmaceutical industry and the development of high-quality, safe, effective and greener medicines; to strengthen crisis preparedness and response mechanisms and address security of supply; and to ensure a strong eu voice in the world by promoting a high level of quality, efficacy and safety of medicines.
we aim, among other things, to: ensure that patients are at the centre of all policies; safeguard the public interest, particularly where there is public funding and incentives, in terms of accessibility, pricing of medicines, transparency and traceability of investments; establish fair pricing and reimbursement policies that do not compromise the sustainability of health systems; implement intellectual property policies that put public health first; and promote more joint public procurement.
madam president, for my country, the european union has already been a reference point in environmental law and has already been a factor in modernising some of the actions of the authorities in portugal in this area.
the european union continues to have the floor, but it is taking less and less concrete action to protect these environmental rights and to enforce community law.
it continues to look at agriculture from an economic point of view, it supports investment and it supports income, but it also looks at it from a social and environmental point of view.
these are traditional goals of cap, but we’re also seeking to significantly to address our environmental challenges.
they have to be sensible and achievable and make a meaningful difference to the environment and to farm viability.
they must provide a wide range of eco schemes that give farmers options to ensure that they can develop to deliver their environmental responsibility and also protect farm incomes and the multiplier that is in the economy, while also investing in the long—term future of the next generation of young farmers who will lead the way forward into the future.
we need to look at other issues, such as carbon farming, how our lands can sequester carbon, how we can improve our biodiversity and increase our renewable energy sector for ever—increasing energy demands.
it maintains the food production capacity of the european union, while ensuring that our farmers and herders do so on fair economic terms and respecting the environmental objectives of the green deal, while keeping in mind the social sustainability of our rural environment.
it is totally incomprehensible to me how one can vote for a common agricultural policy which directs most of its funds to those who do not need them - therefore 80% of direct payments will go to the richest 20% of households in agriculture - which does not preserve biodiversity, so it is actually against the prairie to prairie strategy, it is against the climate act and it continues to finance highly polluting industries such as intensive livestock farming.
it is totally incomprehensible to me how anyone can vote in favour of this common agricultural policy, and i will in good conscience vote against it because i really want to preserve the planet, i want to preserve the guarantee of a future of biodiversity for my children and for all the people of this united europe, and therefore i will vote against this common agricultural policy.
the 12th world trade organisation (wto) must be the starting point for the modernisation of the wto so that it can play a role in responding to the global challenges of the 21st century, including climate change, sustainability and responding to future pandemics, while respecting the rights of all citizens.
as a co-author of this parliament's resolution for the cop, i feel a particular responsibility not only for the establishment of the objectives we brought to glasgow but also for their achievement, and i do not think it is inappropriate to remind all the groups, but also the representatives of the commission and the council, that, while we still have a lot to do, we are also the economic bloc that has done the most and has worked the most for climate neutrality.
we brought seven major goals to glasgow: the ambition to increase the nationally determined targets to get us closer to 1.5 degrees celsius; mobilizing resources for adaptation; the global carbon market agreement; fossil fuel subsidies; the methane agreement; halting deforestation; including all sectors in the effort to decarbonize in the national targets, namely aviation and shipping.
it's very good that in 2020, for the first time, renewable energy has surpassed fossil fuel energy.
there's obviously a lot of energy required, so this package will create a very high energy demand.
thank you for the answer you gave me, regarding the amount of energy in 2030, if this package is implemented.
at the same time, you say renewable energy will be 65 percent, in 2020 it was 22 percent, three times the increase, and i would like to see nuclear and gas in the next taxonomy delegated act.
first of all, i think it is important to say that it is extremely important that we discuss the status of the energy union in this parliament once a year to sort of take stock of this very important project.
and of course, it is gratifying to see how renewable energy is for the first time overtaking fossil fuels as the most important source of energy in europe in 2020. on the other hand, it is a little sad to see the eu's increasing dependence on energy imports from outside.
the energy union was designed to do the exact opposite, namely to make us independent and free of putin's gas and the oil of the middle east sheikhs.
we are doing this by expanding renewable energy even faster than we have been able to do so far.
and we do that, of course, by being even better at saving energy than we've been able to do.
that is how we can create a real energy union.
mr president, the european citizens are now experiencing the practical consequences of an energy policy inspired by absurd dogmas: deregulation of everything, privatisation of everything, dismantling of public monopolies... we're seeing the result.
the rise in energy prices is hitting consumers hard.
the group of member states that last month brutally rejected calls for energy market reform will have to take responsibility for the tens of millions of europeans who are now living in poverty.
the state of the energy union report does contain many good points.
let us also show the positive side of our european energy balance.
in glasgow, it became clear who was ahead in the rankings of countries for climate protection.
in glasgow, it became clear who was really driving the paris climate agreement and who wanted to finance the global climate fund, who invented emissions trading and who wanted to create global climate clubs.
no, we must continue our path of energy transition consistently.
but also the honesty that we need much, much more primary energy for electrification than the commission advises.
but we also need a taxonomy that invests not just in cheap champagne, but in a realistic energy transition, that is, in technologies that make the energy transition affordable and safe.
the energy transition is in line with the paris guidelines, but without ideology, it is safe and affordable.
the first is the renewable energy issue.
the production of renewable energy is increasing, and fortunately, commissioner, it will not increase at the rate needed to meet the 2030 targets.
my country needs 40 new gigawatts of renewable energy.
it is a problem that europe must also face, in order to speed up, to open dialogues with local authorities, in short to be able to go faster in the production of renewable energy.
so we have to work to be upstream of technological innovation if we want to increase energy efficiency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, clean energy research and innovation spending below 2010 levels, soaring prices, increased net imports, 31 million people in energy poverty: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme for research and technological development.
it will be important to work towards reducing dependence on third countries by diversifying supply and increasing storage, but above all by increasing the production of energy from renewable sources.
only then will we achieve the energy autonomy on which our sovereignty depends.
if we are to achieve these objectives, and we must, it will be crucial to solve once and for all the problem of the authorization procedures for the deployment of renewable energy.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, according to the commission, the european union is dependent on energy imports by as much as 61%.
how many billions does europe spend each year on imported energy?
we have been talking for years about the need to produce energy in the european union, but in reality we are becoming increasingly dependent on third countries.
the current energy crisis requires us to redefine our energy policy.
as for the energy perspective proposed in the 'fit for 55' package, the deepening of energy poverty, which is already very large, will soon affect an estimated 80 million people.
mr president, the sharp rise in energy prices is inseparable from the choices made by the european union.
the consequences of liberalising and privatising the sector, of maintaining oligopolistic markets in which cartelised prices and methodologies guarantee astronomical profits, or of the creation and operation of the carbon market, are being felt by consumers, especially the most vulnerable.
energy is a public good.
public and democratic control over the energy sector is a fundamental requirement for ensuring the sustainability of the sector.
the process of decarbonisation cannot be done at the expense of energy sovereignty, of rising energy costs, of jobs, or when there is also no environmental gain, since emissions are transferred to another country.
i raised the issue of funding for these projects with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety about a month ago.
inflation drives up the prices of energy, food, and housing.
as a young politician and president of the youth of the european people’s party, it is a privilege to live in a union that leads the fight against climate change and shapes an economy not for today, but for future generations.
the environmental and digital transitions are shifting the way our society works, but we cannot deny that we are still trying to recover from a crisis that is not yet over.
they are part of a wider hybrid concerted aggression, which involves also energy, disinformation and cyberattacks – to mention just some of the new characteristics of these new challenges.
therefore, we will not spare efforts to help to further strengthen the resilience of ukrainians, of ukraine, its people and government, across all sectors such as democracy, human rights, rule of law, people to people contact, trade, energy, cybersecurity, environment, public health and countering disinformation.
so we are committed to ensuring that food is produced sustainably, while also addressing the root causes of food insecurity and malnutrition, like climate change and conflict.
we need a strong involvement of social partners to make sure that the transitions to a climate-neutral and digital economy will be successful.
for the sustainable corporate governance initiative envisaged in the first quarter of 2022, we are looking into effective, efficient, proportionate and feasible solutions on possible eu-wide rules on corporate due diligence to address adverse impacts in the company’s own operations and its value chains.
digitalisation processes, but also climate change, will profoundly change our society and the world of work.
and, no, climate action and good, reliable jobs are not incompatible, quite the opposite.
the transition to a sustainable economy is creating new jobs, especially in the industrial sector.
workers are interested in and committed to the well-being and productivity of the workforce they are part of and to the sustainability of enterprises.
we can't waste it.
they are instrumental in making both the climate and digital transitions to a greener, more digital, more cohesive, more feminist europe.
climate change and mobility problems show that the train is a transport of the future.
it is the most energy efficient and the closest to carbon neutrality enshrined in the european green deal.
madam president, the european union cannot be credible as a leader in environmental protection without offering a dignified life to wild animals.
the presence of wild animals in circuses is fuelling the environmental crime we are committed to tackling and poses a serious risk to public health and the safety of staff and the public.