this means health systems only half prepared, social protection systems only half effective, economies half strong and sustainable.
this instrument will prove essential if we aim to truly address the green and digital transitions, to achieve the union’s 2030 climate and energy targets and climate neutrality by 2050. member states can also receive assistance when designing digital infrastructure skills and the e—government solutions of building a secure digital communication system.
it is highly recommended, and if we wish to have a sustainable and fair economic and social recovery, we need to use this instrument.
use it afterwards until 2027 to create a sustainable and fair economic, social and gender-equal future beyond the pandemic.
reform is a means to an end, a better environment for business, more resilient healthcare systems, better social and educational systems, better resilience to crisis and a smooth return to sustainable growth.
– mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs provided an opinion on this instrument that shows how its use is essential in truly implementing the european pillar of social rights in accomplishing the united nations sustainable goals.
each of these efforts contributes to the same goal: rapid, equal and universal access to safe and effective vaccines and they are based on the same one principle, that of global solidarity, because this is what holds the key to a healthier, more equal and a more sustainable world and this is what benefits each and every one of us.
digitalisation, modernisation of infrastructure and environmental protection are essential, but the european union must prioritise funding research to prevent and treat these diseases.
in this unstable environment, legitimate leadership is needed.
let’s not waste these opportunities.
i agree we must apply principles vigorously: sustainability in support of a green transition (climate, environmental, social, economic and fiscal), non-discrimination, global rules and a level playing field.
a just transition, fundamental rights, security and good governance, full participation of partner countries in global value chains, and achieving sustainable development goals.
connectivity must promote normative excellence and sustainable investment.
asia is the biggest trade partner of the eu, and there is no doubt that we need an effective and sustainable strategy, including on connectivity, which is of economic as well as geopolitical importance.
– mr president, human rights and the climate crisis cannot be forgotten in the context of eu—asia cooperation.
in this context, it is all the more important to develop connectivity between the european union and asia that is increasingly efficient and sustainable and that also takes into account the potential of new routes, such as the arctic.
cooperation between the european union and asia in this area cannot, however, ignore the need for strong commitments to sustainable development, the environment and labour, and the defence of human rights, which we will pay close attention to.
dear colleagues, we should work on five priorities: first, boosting multilateral cooperation; second, combating covid-19; third, tackling climate change; fourth, rebuilding our economies, ensuring fair trade and promoting the digital transformation; and fifth, joining forces on security and peace.
from climate change to health, from digitalisation to democracy, these are global challenges that need renewed and improved global cooperation.
we want to deepen our partnership on emission trading and carbon pricing, we want to join forces with the united states to fight the loss of biodiversity and the destruction of nature.
we want to develop the technologies that will drive us to climate neutrality.
it is with this new green tech alliance that we will look forward at everything from offshore to climate change, from hydrogen that is clean to sustainable batteries and to circular economies that we have to build up to fight this climate change.
president biden and vice president harris should help create a climate of harmony that heals the wounds of division and polarization.
the rejection of foreigners, racism, misogyny, anti-semitism, climate change denial or anti-vaccine activism represent the delusions of an extreme right increasingly present in western democracies.
we need to formulate joint strategies within the framework of the paris agreement on climate change, the nuclear agreement with iran, the world health organization, the world trade organization.
let’s level up our commitment to fight climate change and openly discuss how to deal with digital giants — two very important files for both europeans and americans — and let’s identify how to support countries in the world to recover from the pandemic and back on track.
secondly, a common policy to protect the climate.
the united states' announced re-entry into the paris agreement on climate change is a welcome first step.
together, we must tackle this covid crisis, the climate crisis and the global crisis of democracy, side by side as equal partners with equal responsibilities.
the un has already agreed on the 17 sustainable development goals to help us achieve this by 2030. this is the task we must jointly shape in our partnership with the united states.
as commission president ursula von der leyen pointed out this morning, there are certainly massive challenges we should tackle jointly, such as the covid-19 pandemic, the economic recovery, trade and digital technology, climate change and, of course, foreign policy and security issues.
the eu and the us have strong challenges where their cooperation is key: international security, climate change, health, the digitization of societies are at the forefront of the agenda.
we can both deliver for all citizens if we work together to fight covid, to restore multilateralism and a global order based on the rule of law, to meet climate objectives, and to face the digital transformation of our societies and economies.
rapid positive developments in the intensification of eu-us cooperation can be expected, for example in the fight against climate change, where president biden has already decided to rejoin the paris climate agreement, and also in trade relations.
only together are we more powerful to face the threats posed by extremists and populism that are challenging our democracies, tackle the emerging problems due to the global pandemic, climate change and digitalisation and finally secure the peace, prosperity, security, freedom and human rights equality.
the european recovery must therefore be based on the drivers of the climate and digital transition.
we have a health emergency, but we still have a climate emergency.
we have a planet to protect and we can't afford to waste any more time.
it is therefore urgent to implement the european green deal, starting with the adoption of the new climate law, which i regard as one of our main political objectives.
this is indeed the decade of decision, which will require greater effort and ambition to achieve our commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. but this is also the decade of digital europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate and digital transitions are essential, unforeseen and exciting social changes.
therefore, in line with the european parliament's report 'a strong social europe for just transitions', our second priority is to make the european union's social pillar a reality as a basis for europeans' confidence in europe's ability to lead the climate and digital transitions.
finally, strengthening strategic autonomy also means affirming europe as a global player, valuing, as our citizens ask us to do, the social and environmental standards that distinguish us and make us proud.
not to mention unemployment - especially among young people - energy poverty and the lack of decent housing.
it is certainly time to accelerate our transition to a more sustainable model by taking advantage of new technologies.
we therefore need to rebuild, innovate and transform, building on the green deal and its derivatives such as the circular economy or the carbon footprint at borders.
we know from surveys, including those conducted by eurostat, that the public is concerned about security, that they want a security and defence policy, that they want us to fight climate change, that they want us to relaunch multilateralism with the biden administration, that they want us to defend public goods.
it has to be a recovery that is focused on our future, on the strategic challenges that we have ahead of us, and therefore it has to be based on what is the great ambition to do this decade, the decade to achieve at least a 55 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and also to make this decade a digital decade.
we are waiting for the conclusions of the commission's studies on the environmental impact of this agreement and on the steps to be taken, but there is something i would like to say quite frankly, because we have to speak frankly: no one should want to hide the methane produced by european cattle in the amazon forest.
no, we cannot hide in the amazon rainforest what is really the protectionism of an agricultural policy which must be adjusted to the priorities of climate change and environmental values.
the environmental objective must be present in all european policies.
also i welcome the announcement of the portuguese government regarding the implementation of the green deal, the adoption of the climate law and the decision to promote innovation, digitisation and sustainable resource-management in the rural areas.
these are also essential pillars for the negotiations on the reform of the cap, a reform which must be completed in the interests of stability in the sector and rapid progress towards greater environmental sustainability, behavioural change, and stimulation of the development of research and technological innovation.
the full and fair climate and digital transition will bring environmental, but also economic and social sustainability to all sectors, including fisheries.
following the heated debates of the previous year and in the context of the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the portuguese presidency faces a number of challenges in the field of energy and climate policy.
accordingly, the european climate regulation to be finalised in the coming months should respect people's legitimate wish to return to their pre-pandemic lives.
climate action and the green transition must be driven by the interests of citizens, not by the ideological ideas of the european left.
in the current economic climate, caution is also needed when designing financial instruments for the energy transition.
the taxonomy regulation on sustainable finance cannot further aggravate the situation of the european industry in crisis.
finally, i was pleased to read the ambitious objectives of the portuguese presidency in the field of combating energy poverty and the circular economy.
the spanish delegation shares these priorities and calls on the presidency to accelerate the transition to a more sustainable model, taking advantage of new technologies and promoting a fair recovery: investment must contribute to reducing inequalities, the wage gap, unemployment and ensuring decent housing for all.
at a time of difficulty, the eu showed unity, solidarity and flexibility, first addressing immediate emergency needs and then planning an ambitious recovery to make europe more resilient, more competitive, just and sustainable for all future generations.
these two instruments, amounting to more than eur 1.8 trillion over the next seven years, are endowed with ambitious climate and digital targets and a focus on addressing challenges to employment, sustainability, resilience and competitiveness through reforms and investment.
in this context, as you heard our prime minister say in this chamber this morning, the porto social summit that will take place in may will give impetus to the european social dimension and the european pillar of social rights and its implementation plan, emphasising its central role in the european recovery and in adapting to the climate, digital and demographic transitions.
the eu support is all the more important to ensure a sustainable and inclusive recovery and economic and social upward convergence.
we are not talking about any growth: we want sustainable growth and we want an inclusive growth.
we need to set the conditions for future sustainable economic growth and a quality job-rich recovery.
we have to do that in relation to adequacy, coverage and sustainability.
this is imperative for successful, fair, sustainable and inclusive recovery, and we will all meet in porto to make these objectives very concrete.
recovery has to be anchored in sustainability, in innovation, in gender equality, and in upward social cohesion.
the next step is to involve the whole of society in its implementation through national and european programmes, putting people at the centre, focusing on re-skilling and preserving jobs and ensuring that the energy and digital transition takes on a social dimension, which ensures that the poorest or most vulnerable do not bear the costs.
obviously, this is a big challenge for us, especially with tens of millions of citizens who are heavily burdened by housing costs, living in old, unsanitary, overcrowded, energy-inefficient homes, and, worst of all, many of them unsafe.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on european skills agenda for sustainable competitiveness, social fairness and resilience by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, lina gálvez muñoz, dragoș pîslaru, elena lizzi, kim van sparrentak, anna zalewska, eugenia rodríguez palop, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000006/2021 – b9-0004/21).
the commission communication 'a european skills agenda for sustainable competitiveness, social integrity and resilience' aims to respond to these challenges, in particular by ensuring that the fundamental transformation of skills is at the heart of the agenda and that lifelong learning, as enshrined in the european pillar of social rights, becomes a reality across the european union.
our goal is to empower people with education and training, with a view to boosting the creation of quality jobs and setting the conditions for a more innovative, competitive, inclusive and sustainable development model.
the skills agenda already in its name sets the path towards which we have to go: sustainable competitiveness, social fairness and resilience, and i know that i can count on this parliament to go on this path.
the lack of resources, the shift towards a resource-efficient, digitalised and climate-neutral economy and the increasing use of artificial intelligence pose new challenges to employment and the labour market.
i welcome forward-looking proposals, and it's important that they show a sustainable path for future generations.
this requires the inclusion of sport in a large number of policies and more links with innovation, the environment, health, the education system - i will pay particular attention to this.
we have been talking for years about sustainability, about digitalization, about modernizing education, about efficient public administrations, but the lack of funding has, until now, turned those ideas into utopias.
the basis on which the july european council discussed was good: a large-scale plan, €670 billion; a rapid mobilisation plan, so that its impact is immediate, and a plan focused on the ecological and digital transition; but for parliament this was not enough, and we felt that the plan had a lot of room for improvement.
we aligned the plan with the strategies and priorities of the european union: the paris agreement, the sustainable development goals, the european pillar of social rights... the objectives of the plan are: combating climate change; digitalisation; social and territorial cohesion; economic pillar to support industry and smes; health and institutional resilience to increase the capacity to respond and prepare for crises, and the last pillar focused on youth and children, with objectives such as education, training or integration into the labour market.
in the fight against climate change, we wanted to be more ambitious and to do this we have changed three aspects.
we have also included the principle of 'not causing significant damage', so that no investment or reform financed under this plan can harm the environment.
the lack of material and human resources has been alleviated thanks to the unlimited commitment of our health workers, but this is neither fair nor sustainable, so this plan, as it could not be otherwise, will also serve to improve the accessibility and capacity of our health systems and to prepare them for future crises.
while the availability, access and nature of sexual and reproductive health services fall under national competence, the commission continues to support member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education.
energy shipments that have been for decades the backbone of the strategic relationship between moscow and europe will be deeply affected by the greening of the world economy.
today, their gnp per capita is 30% less and the adversity of the present political climate makes values and principles a sore point once again.
there may be other issues, such as supporting israeli—palestinian dialogue, where we could expand our engagement, but the overall environment of the visit did not allow us to explore this further.
at the same time, however, i think it would be unfortunate if this incident became the pretext for a campaign against clean nuclear energy in the union.
member states need to transition to clean energy and, due to national specificities, some cannot create the energy mix without nuclear energy.
the last thing we want is for the european union to become even more dependent on russian energy imports, possibly, and ironically, even nuclear energy.
thirty-six years later, i come here and ask you, does anyone think that elections held in a climate of terror can be considered free and fair?
we need to ensure better consumer information on product sustainability and work more on reuse and recycling of construction products.
this area is an essential part of the mosaic of a sustainable internal market and must be part of the future legislative review.
dear commissioner, dear didier, our mandate at the commission is therefore clear: let us work together on solutions for sustainability, resilience and industrial efficiency.
it is therefore high time to turn this leverage into a social, climate and environmental asset.
clear, more transparent information on new product performance requirements related to health, safety and environmental aspects.
sustainable choice should be the first choice when choosing building materials.
so if the commission takes our calls for the building materials regulation seriously, we can take a big step towards more sustainable construction in europe.
madam president, commissioner, we are at a moment when all economic sectors must adapt to meet the environmental and digital commitments that the european union has made.
ten years after the convention entered into force, we can therefore conclude that the objective of labour market accessibility is still far from being achieved, whether due to persistent discrimination, lack of awareness among employers or environmental barriers, it is time to do something about it.
first of all, we have to realize that unless we work to remove the physical barriers of the environment, nothing will change.
the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
a work by parliament which will help to improve this investeu programme to finance the years that are now ahead of us and which will allow the investeu programme to help, a lot, regions in energy transition, like my own, asturias, through that second pillar of the just transition mechanism in which the investeu programme will collaborate, also cooperating and using and seeking synergies between the investeu programme and what is strictly the european recovery fund.
that means on financing, on climate, that we use the same climate tracking methodology, but that we also use the same approach to make sure that none of the euros is doing any significant harm to our strategic goals of europe.
madam president, the european union needs strong investment and, in order to invest in sustainable and inclusive growth, it needs strong public support and a european project that will also leverage private investment that can reduce unemployment.
in this regard, the investeu programme is a new instrument that brings together several funding programmes and, together with the recovery and resilience facility, should ensure a sustainable union-wide economic recovery.
the investeu programme must be more than the european fund for strategic investments, it must support in real terms both the economic sector, especially smes and start-ups, and the strategic objectives of modernising infrastructure, whether it is transport, digital, educational or environmental infrastructure.
obviously i thought here also of my country, romania, which unfortunately failed to access many of the financial programmes previously available and which developed a small number of sustainable projects.
and this brick that we are adding today is one of the most important, because we cannot consolidate european development without investment, without supporting the private environment, without entrepreneurs, without encouraging innovation and creativity in the private sector.
and if we really want economic and social resilience, then we really need to support sustainable, modern investments, investments that encourage close cooperation between the private and public sectors.
by investing today in our hospitals, pharma production, safe and secure roads and sustainable energy, we shall prevent fatalities and avoid heavy social security costs.
energy autonomy is just one example.
it’s unfair to justify projects such as nord stream 2, just by the need for energy resources, while inside the union we have all it takes to produce extra energy.
investeu is an ambitious european union fund designed to stimulate private investment and contribute to the union's priorities, including sustainable infrastructure, research and innovation.
in addition, the gigantic challenges of climate-neutral and digital transformation cannot be met without a massive increase in public and private investment.
investeu will help to stimulate and implement key climate-neutral and digital transformation projects in companies, regions and municipalities.
europe must do everything possible to save its businesses, to maintain and create quality jobs, to respect the environment and to contribute to competitiveness and productivity.
the eu is committed to investing €372 billion over the next seven years in reconstruction, strategic investment, digitalisation and sustainability.
more than that, this programme has the potential to propel europe into a new type of prosperous, sustainable, future-oriented economy by encouraging private investment from leading innovative companies and smes.
the public guarantee, worth eur 26 billion, is designed to encourage investors in the four key areas for the future: sustainable infrastructure, digitalisation, smes and professional skills.
the next item is the debate on the report by cristian—silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the programme for the union's action in the field of health for the period 2021—2027 (‘eu4health programme’) (com(2020)0405 – c9-0152/2020 – 2020/0102(cod)) (a9–0196/2020).
this package is under discussion with the member states, as well as in the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi).
they will also help us to achieve the goals of the two flagship strategies of the european union: 'biodiversity' and 'from farm to fork'.
– madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank the european parliament for its work on this file and to make the following statement on behalf of the commission: ‘in its proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the “customs” programme for cooperation in the field of customs, the commission proposed to replace and repeal decision 70/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 15 january 2008 on a paperless environment for customs and trade (former e-customs decision).
the commission regrets that by doing so, it cannot entirely fulfil its commitments under the better regulation agenda.’
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: - the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester: the annual strategy for sustainable growth 2021 (2021/2004 (ini)) (a9-0036/2021), and the report by lina gálvez muñoz, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on a european semester for economic policy coordination: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the compromise we have found is solid and, i think, sustainable for all sides.
the european semester is not an instrument for the coordination of environmental policy or climate action or the implementation of other considerations.
in this uncertain environment, policies must remain supportive of the economy.
and we have a unique opportunity to work together to rebuild a better european economy, a greener, more innovative, sustainable and inclusive economy.
to obtain financing under the facility member states are currently working on their recovery and resilience plans, which will include their reform and investment agenda, in line with the four dimensions of environmental sustainability, productivity, fairness and macroeconomic stability.
and with the flagships identified in the annual sustainable growth survey.
it’s time to deliver on sustainable growth, on job creation, on high quality education, social protection and inclusion and environmental sustainability.
we also need a proper balance between boosting investment and implementing sustainable structural reforms to support the recovery.
it comes at a timely moment as we are working hard to prepare for europe’s recovery, so i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports on the annual sustainable growth strategy and the social and employment aspects thereof.
it is imperative to swiftly implement policies and measures leading to a fair, inclusive and sustainable recovery.
social europe must be at the heart of the recovery, and without a strong social dimension, there will be no lasting and sustainable recovery.
our efforts towards a sustainable and solid recovery need to encompass all dimensions.
social aspects must be on an equal footing with the economic, environmental and digital dimensions.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
madam president, commissioners, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament, i would like to welcome the work on the european semester that we are doing and, i hope, adopting today and tomorrow.
and now we're creating a new consensus to better connect climate change and macroeconomic policies.
for the first time, in the report which i hope we will adopt tomorrow, we are linking a climate indicator to the european semester to ensure that the monitoring of economic policies which is so necessary, and the subsequent return to the necessary budgetary seriousness, is not done against climate seriousness, but on the contrary, allows the european commission to monitor in detail the progress of the european green deal, the progress of massive investment in green technologies, in low-carbon solutions, in the member states.
this is a big difference and this is the new brussels consensus we are creating: not closing the budgetary gaps too soon and linking the budgetary challenge to the climate challenge: this is a great success that we can rejoice in.
all member states, through internal reforms, must ensure a favourable investment climate, support smes in this transition and ensure access to public and private finance for smes.
that to create jobs and growth, we need both public and private investment, but also structural reforms, because sustainability is also, dear left-wing greens, not just an environmental issue, but an economic one.
the european semester, with the agreements that countries make with each other to coordinate their economies, must therefore also contribute to more secure jobs, to fighting poverty, to meeting the climate targets.
social objectives should be given equal weight with economic and climate objectives.
the annual sustainable growth strategy 2021 points us in the right direction, relying on the key role of the recovery resilience facility for our recovery, and by reinforcing the commitment to implement the european pillar of social rights through a clear action plan.
we need a renewed european semester – one that is comprehensive, sustainable and innovative.
i want a new strategy for sustainable growth at european level.
a society built around these principles offers not just fairness, but offers resilience, creativity and sustainability, and provides us with solid foundations to face the challenges of the present and the future, the covid crisis and the digital and climate transitions.
in the coming years, national recovery and resilience plans, together with the multiannual financial framework, will also provide a unique opportunity to invest in people, employment, skills and welfare, ensuring a sustainable and digital recovery.
we have just had a long discussion on the recovery and methods for sustainable growth and a sustainable recovery.
there will be no sustainable recovery without guaranteeing gender equality and concrete measures for the most vulnerable, especially persons with disabilities.
this action plan is a fundamental demand of the socialists and democrats and was part of our electoral program in 2019. we will not give up for two reasons: because there are injustices that have been going on for a long time, such as precarious contracts, youth unemployment, the gender pay gap, but also because there are new risks to equity and social justice in our model, such as the climate emergency and climate change.
that is why our objectives in the action plan must be more closely linked to the united nations sustainable development goals.
we need a full-scale strategy for social impact investment, drawing in private partners and creating an entrepreneurial mindset for social issues where we create sustainable revenue and social profit.
imagine how much better that money would have felt if it had gone to welfare or climate change.
this future initiative will have to take account of the need to support our agriculture in the face of climate change, globalisation and health crises.
i would like to remind you that the common agricultural policy cannot be the only instrument to support the economic, social and sustainable development of our rural areas.
thirdly, in relation to the digital and green economy, climate change has proven to us that there are many opportunities in the industry sector: renewable energies, for instance, circular economy.
we must also ensure good conditions for the development of tourism, the development of the micro-economy, the bio-economy, the development of green jobs in the energy sector, the development of concepts of care for the elderly in rural areas, the development of tourism.
rural areas have the potential to become leaders in the transition to a low-carbon and digital economy, but this goes hand in hand with the creation of the necessary conditions such as appropriate physical, social and digital infrastructure, as well as investments in knowledge and skills.
support for the rural environment under the common agricultural policy (cap) is an important instrument, but it is not enough.
how will the commission ensure synergy between the future cap and other policies that can support the rural environment?
no less importantly, they are the most capable to produce high-quality food in sustainable way.
let us not spend more energy on this non—issue with no priority.
the own resources system must contribute to eu strategies and policies designed and implemented to address long-term challenges: such as large and persistent regional disparities, demographic change, rising income and wealth inequality, the risk of poverty, migration, unemployment, climate change and technology.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new own resource based on unrecycled plastic waste, in particular in the light of the new own resource for plastic waste, which will be introduced in january 2021. in this context, the own resources system must ensure a durable and resilient framework that fully respects the principle of balance.
the three new sources of funding for the eu budget are: the common consolidated corporate tax base, the emissions trading scheme and the tax on plastic packaging waste that is not recycled.
in the long run, this development is simply a disaster for our cultural ecosystem.
that is why we need, and the european parliament is calling for, a stronger community budget with a stronger social agenda, a real pillar of social rights, with more money for children, young people, public health, the environmental transition, the digital transition.
we must use every available resource, all the unallocated funds from the previous multiannual financial framework, the revenue from fines, new own resources to finally pay the internet giants, and these should be allocated to public health, investment, sustainable recovery.
we are still in a situation where we have to work on a quick and sustainable recovery after this pandemic.
and what we're doing today is tackling the biggest environmental risk to human health in europe: air pollution.
this air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths a year - cardiovascular disease, lung disease, lung cancer - and it also affects the most vulnerable groups: children, the elderly, people with lower incomes, people with less purchasing power.
it also ends up affecting our ecosystems, biodiversity, plant health.
science has advanced during this time, and we're calling for an update that would cover other unregulated pollutants, like ultrafine particles, black carbon.
we are presenting this report on the eve of the presentation of the 'zero pollution' action plan by the european commission - a plan which we, this house, this european parliament - are hopeful about and of the possible revision, the future revision of the air quality directives which we are demanding next year, which we encourage to be ambitious and demanding.
it is true that we have had a majority, which has not been very large, in the committee on the environment for the adoption of this report.
air pollution still has a massive impact on our well-being, our environment and our whole economy.
air pollution still brings some 400 000 premature deaths every year, as well as cardiovascular diseases, respiratory problems and cancer.
and air pollution has recently been receiving attention as a factor which may facilitate the severity and prognosis of covid-19 infections.
this is why in the european green deal under the umbrella of a zero-pollution ambition for a non-toxic environment we are committed to strengthening the centrepiece of eu clean air policy: the eu’s ambient air quality directives.
i look forward to continuing our constructive cooperation and to delivering clean air for all our citizens and their environment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the tran opinion has chosen, for once, to put pragmatism before ideology because, you see, the pollution of the air we breathe is certainly a huge problem but, in the face of dozens of infringement procedures which have not led to any results whatsoever was mentioned by the rapporteur it is pointless to insist on the same path, increasing further the targets for reducing emissions which are already difficult to achieve in this context.
according to the world health organisation, air pollution is the biggest environmental health risk in europe.
however, the report also contains proposals on how to reduce air pollution, for example through climate policy and more efficient and better transport.
the european green deal promises action to reduce air pollution from the most polluting sectors and to address the related challenges of air pollution by adopting a zero-emission action plan, which is very good.
madam president, commissioner, in these times of prolonged covid, it is right to recall one thing: air pollution is the number one threat to our health heart disease, lung disease, cancer, diabetes, especially affecting vulnerable populations.
as our rapporteur has pointed out, pollution is responsible for almost 450 000 deaths a year in europe, not to mention its devastating effects on the environment and biodiversity.
i am thinking first of the limit values for the four main pollutants established in 2008 for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and ground-level ozone.
road traffic, heating and industrial emissions are the main sources.
in conclusion, madam president, there is no reason to divide us here on an environmental health issue which is the subject of consensus in the scientific community.
air pollution is the greatest environmental health risk to people in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the majority of the environment committee, like the citizens of europe, want tough laws on clean air.
european environmental legislation must be implemented consistently by the states.
madam president, commissioner, air pollution has a brutal impact on health.
air pollution is largely preventable.
for example, the promotion of the use of high-quality, efficient and cheap public transport in large urban centres is an essential part of a sustainable mobility strategy and this in turn is an essential condition for an improvement in air quality, something which the european commission refuses to recognise, while unfortunately remaining a fearless defender of the individual transport paradigm.
we need to focus on reshaping economic, trade and energy access.
last but not least, i would like to mention that it is vital that we ensure that we guarantee a fair political, social and economic environment in africa.
that is why i believe that this cooperation that we are already seeing emerging on the horizon between the european innovation council and the european institute of innovation and technology will be the basis for being able to build a more integrated and inclusive eu innovation ecosystem, for the benefit of the union's innovators.
the new horizon europe research and innovation framework programme is a research programme of major importance for the next period 2021-2027. it will support innovative businesses, help prepare for future epidemics and help industry with climate-friendly renewal and digitalisation.
the programme shall provide funding through various calls to address global challenges such as climate change and support for research and innovation related to the current coronavirus pandemic.
the most ambitious environmental targets have been set without knowing how we're going to meet them, and all our hopes are in innovative technologies that we don't have yet.
research and innovation are therefore essential to meet the environmental and digitalisation objectives, while maintaining the eu's competitiveness and generating new jobs.
however, i welcome the possibility accepted in the interinstitutional dialogue of transferring 5% of the structural funds to horizon europe, keeping the energy, climate and mobility research cluster in one and including paediatric cancer in the health cluster.
these challenges include combating climate change, digitalisation and the covid-19 pandemic.
the debate and final adoption of the programmes defining the reference framework and the implementation programmes for horizon europe and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) is a key step in enabling the european union to deliver on its priorities for growth and sustainable development on a sound scientific and knowledge base.
– mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner lenarčič unfortunately could not join today’s final debate on the commission’s proposal to strengthen the union civil protection mechanism, but he asked me to convey to you his apologies and to deliver a few remarks on his behalf, starting by thanking in particular the rapporteur, nikos androulakis, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their strong support and contribution to swift conclusion of the negotiations.
but climate change continues to be the number one threat to humanity.
soil provides nutrients that sustain plants for food and energy.
soil is critical in helping to reduce the pace of climate change and it is the largest store of carbon on land.
much of the planet’s biodiversity resides in the soil.
we have read attentively the main conclusions of the european environment agency’s 2020 state of the environment report and we have duly taken note of the warning it provides.
this is the reason why – and it is in the most recent conclusions on biodiversity adopted by the council last october – we express support for stepping up efforts to better protect soil and soil biodiversity.
in its conclusions, the council reaffirmed its commitment to addressing desertification and land degradation in the eu and to reach land degradation neutrality by 2030. the council also reiterated its will to make progress towards the objective of zero net land take by 2050. it is also important to take this opportunity to recall that the recent agreement reached between the council and parliament on the life regulation foresees in its article 3 that the general objective of the life programme will be to contribute to the shift towards a sustainable economy with a view to protecting, restoring and improving the quality of the environment, including that of soil, to halt and reverse biodiversity loss and to tackle the degradation of ecosystems.
in addition, similar attention is given to soil in the council’s mandate agreed on the 8th environment action programme.
the council mandate establishes the pursuit of a zero pollution ambition for a toxin—free environment, including for air, water and soil, and the enhancement of european natural capital, notably air, water, soil and forests, as well as the fight against desertification and soil degradation.
allow me to mention as well that the council remains fully committed to the fulfilment of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and, in this regard, let me emphasise sdg 15.3, which aims to combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including land affected by desertification, droughts and floods, and strives to achieve a land degradation neutral world by 2030. in view of the above, the council welcomes the planned update of the 2006 eu soil thematic strategy, which aims to address soil and land degradation within the eu in a comprehensive way, and we look forward to the adoption of this strategy by the commission.
as you know, our soil and the biodiversity it contains is a vast biological engine driving a multitude of processes that underpin our well-being and our survival.
soil is one of the earth’s biggest carbon sinks and holds one quarter of terrestrial biodiversity.
yet today, and although degradation advances relentlessly, the eu is still not equipped with a legal framework that would give the same protection to soil as to water, air, the marine environment and nature.
today, very few member states have a comprehensive framework covering soil protection, restoration, sustainable use and monitoring, and the playing field is not level.
in line with what we announced in the european green deal and in the biodiversity strategy, the framework we will propose in autumn will give a renewed impetus to soil protection with tangible steps to strengthen existing protection and reduce threats.
the current legislation that addresses change in soil organic carbon, the land use, the land use change and forestry regulation is being reviewed, and proposals for related targets under the green deal and climate target plan are expected in the summer in the so-called ‘fit for 55’ package.
finally, the zero pollution action plan for air, water and soil due in may will cover the issue of contaminated sites.
this inaction means, as we have said, ever greater diffuse soil pollution, risks of desertification, salinisation and erosion, pressure on our climate and our food, or a significant loss of biodiversity harmful to all.
and we hope this time the council realizes the common interest we have in protecting soils and if some people were not convinced, i'll just read part of the fao report, which is from 2018 and says: "soil pollution causes a chain reaction.
it alters soil biodiversity, reduces soil organic matter and soil's ability to act as a filter.
soil pollution has devastating effects on the environment and affects all forms of life, including human lives, by creating new cancers.
in addition to the environmental impact, soil pollution also has a high economic cost due to reduced yields and crop quality.
preventing soil pollution should be a top priority on a global scale.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: about 70 percent of our soils are in a bad state: sealing, desertification, erosion, over-fertilization, pesticide pollution and, and, and.
healthy soils, as we all know, are essential in achieving the objectives of our european green deal: climate neutrality, biodiversity restoration, healthy and sustainable food systems, and a resilient soil environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's climate action plan is implemented.
we have received the commission's commitment in the lulucf area that efforts will be stepped up and that we can expect to save 300 million tonnes of co2 - that is a 2% increase in the european climate target, and that should not be underestimated.
so unlike water and air, we do not need european regulation in all areas, but only where there are transboundary effects, such as in the case of climate.
it is one of the most important environmental challenges of our times, and success is essential for us to achieve our objectives on climate, biodiversity and zero pollution.
soil is also the only environmental medium which so far is not covered by a comprehensive and coherent policy framework.
without it, soil and land degradation will continue to accelerate, further aggravating the climate and biodiversity crisis.
the eu will risk failing to achieve its green deal targets on climate change, biodiversity and food security and safety.
the new framework should protect our soils and give legal certainty across the eu about what we mean by sustainable use of soil.
providing financial support for the sustainable use and restoration of soils is very important, and it would help soil users to embrace more sustainable practices that allow soil to perform all its key functions.
we need to jointly determine what we consider to be sustainable soil management in the eu to prevent further degradation, and their expertise is, of course, essential.
soil protection is a key component in environmental policy, and we can only curb its degradation by acting together.
i would like to conclude by underlining the strong commitment of the council and the member states to developing a sustainable land management policy that respects environmental and climate objectives and contributes to tackling the main drivers of desertification and land degradation, as well as to achieving the objective of zero urban sprawl by 2050.
in writing.
it is therefore crucial that, as part of the green deal, we come up with an ambitious legislative framework to protect and promote sustainable land use in the eu.
the new legislation will have to take into account important threats to soil, such as desertification and salinisation, unsustainable agricultural practices, poor management, land abandonment, and contamination and biodiversity loss.
at the same time, the tca provides for unprecedented level-playing-field obligations to protect our businesses from unfair competition when it comes to issues like unlawful state aid or the lowering of labour or environmental standards.
apart from all this, the uk remains a key partner and a like-minded ally when it comes to issues like climate change and relations with other partners around the globe.
climate policy offers a good opportunity to renew eu-uk relations and is an opportunity for positive cooperation.
the eu-uk-us front can work together to ensure that the un climate conference cop26 in glasgow in november will agree on sufficiently ambitious targets to reduce co2 emissions to bring global warming to below 2 degrees.
the eu recently agreed on climate action and the 2030 targets.
the aim is to reduce emissions by at least 55% compared with 1990. the scientific evidence suggests that we should have aimed for a reduction of at least 70% by 2030. the cop26 host country, the united kingdom, deserves credit for setting a respectable 78% reduction target for 2035. the objective is based on the scientific assessment of the national panel on climate change.
to succeed in combating climate change, we need a climate policy that is based on science.
in the report, we paid close attention to the sustainability aspect of parliament’s operations.
although officially carbon-neutral since 2016, there is still more to be done.
we can keep improving by making a gradual shift to zero-emission vehicles, reducing our paper consumption and by improving the energy efficiency of our buildings.
on the court of justice, as a rapporteur of the european parliament i would simply like to congratulate the court on the functioning of their institution in 2019. through its reference to the adaptability to new technologies, through the commitment to financial efficiency, to environment and most importantly to delivering high quality and timely judgments, the court is one of the example institutions of the union.
moving to the justice and home affairs agencies, in most of the cases i must say that i’m happy about the situation in 2019. as a message, we encourage eu agencies to work together to identify common aims – to cooperate in order to facilitate economies of scale, joint public procurement schemes, common strategies for cybersecurity, ecological transition or improving the ethical standards, are examples of areas where agencies are encouraged to cooperate.
overall concluding remark, i would like to highlight that respect for human rights, high standards of ethics and integrity, sound financial management, the wellbeing of staff, and creating a safe environment for reporting wrongdoing are absolutely vital for the good functioning of any agency or eu body and we need to ensure at all times that they perform in such a way.
this is something we in the s&d group fought for, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) also thought it was important.
let 's not waste this opportunity .
mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, the obligation under article 325 of the treaty for the union and the member states to combat fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union is all the more urgent now that the european union is facing, as a result of the pandemic, the most serious economic and social crisis in its history and it is therefore essential to ensure that european funds are actually spent on a sustainable recovery in accordance with the law.
we would have opted for a more concrete and realistic, rather than ideological, view of certain technologies and resources, such as natural gas as an important compostable bridge to achieve climate neutrality, replacing the most polluting sources.
i would remind you that the european union accounts for only 9% of global emissions, while the united states and china account for 15% and 30% respectively.
support and increase their economic and productive capacity; let us protect them on international markets and make sure that the challenge of the ecological and environmental transition is a real opportunity and does not turn into a failure of european policies, with additional costs for citizens and businesses.
the jtf also highlights the social dimension of the structural change needed: challenges in education, training, pension issues, job search, energy poverty or infrastructure problems.
we can only create a climate-neutral way of producing and living in europe by working together with local social conditions, in and with local authorities and regions.
madam president, the just transition fund is historic and the first key element of the european green deal to ensure a fair socioeconomic transition towards climate neutrality by 2050. we, the socialists and democrats, strengthened the social dimension throughout the negotiation process and ensured a just process in all relevant areas that we defend, including sustainable local mobility, sustainable tourism and energy poverty.
we need to ensure that the paris agreement and the eu climate targets for 2030 and 2050 are achieved in a social and balanced way, so that no one and no region is left behind.
madam president, the just transition fund, which we are going to vote on during this part-session, responds to a longstanding request from our group to promote the energy transition and move towards a low-carbon society, including in areas which have hitherto been characterised by a heavy reliance on fossil fuels.
the fund promotes a strategic regional approach to europe, focusing on the regions most affected by the objectives of combating global warming.
with an amount almost tripled thanks to the contribution of the recovery plan adopted following the health crisis, the just transition fund will help to achieve the objectives of limiting europe's greenhouse gas emissions, especially in the territories where the energy transition is the most difficult.
the result is that we will have €17.5 billion invested in the regions most dependent on fossil fuels for the energy transition.
in particular, no fossil fuels such as gas or nuclear energy will be eligible for funding under this fund.
in conclusion, i would like to say that this is a real political success for our committee on regional development and, as you said, commissioner, we are putting cohesion...
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the just transition fund is a fundamental instrument for achieving the climate objectives we have set ourselves, but it is also one of the means that europe has at its disposal for its citizens to recover and to start over after the disastrous economic consequences of the pandemic.
there are a few elements in the text which i consider essential to building an economically sustainable future: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme.
i support the just transition fund because it should support climate neutrality in the areas most affected by the transition.
the transition towards climate neutrality can only be fair if it is inclusive and puts a particular emphasis on three dimensions: economic cohesion with sustainable growth and green jobs, while respecting the needs of different sectors; social cohesion with a just transition, social justice, understanding of energy poverty and specific needs; and territorial cohesion with an understanding of the different needs of the regions of the european union, in particular island regions.
this instrument will be one of the key elements for achieving our goal of a climate neutral europe by 2050. i congratulate my colleagues on the agreement on performance-based payments and a mechanism to reward green projects as well as the inclusion of social and cultural projects.
madam president, the green deal, the environmental direction of the european union's policy is among the best decisions taken at european level in recent years, because it is not only nature that needs the radical change that this pact will bring, but above all we, the people.
the just transition fund is necessary for these regions to be able to adapt to environmental policy, so that this transition is not a burden precisely (the president interrupted the speaker) on those who need it most, the coal miners.
this should not be the case this time and it’s right, as many speakers have pointed out, that we will be successful in combating climate change, successful on the transition, if we do not leave anybody behind, if we really are able to enhance these important transitions.
i think social problems and climate problems, environmental problems, are very much linked and therefore thank you again very much for the support, and now it’s time for implementing.
the european union hopes to become the first climate-neutral eu bloc by 2050. the green deal is an ambitious set of measures to enable citizens and businesses to make the transition to a green and sustainable economy.
in this context, the just transition fund is a key instrument in supporting states and regions in difficulty to achieve climate objectives.
the main beneficiary countries are those with a fossil fuel based energy system and where large investments are needed to achieve a carbon neutral economy.
in romania, eur 1,95 billion from this fund will be used to help people in mining regions in the energy transition.
the effects of successive crises - economic or climate - and the high proportion of people employed in polluting industries in these counties, call for an integrated economic conversion, supported by packages of social measures.
the fifg will support a wide range of activities that will enable investment in smes, research, innovation, green and renewable technologies, smart and sustainable mobility, social inclusion, career re-training and labour market inclusion.
the just transition fund is the first instrument of the european green deal that will allow us to decarbonise europe starting with the most polluting regions, which will also have to make the biggest effort in the transition to a zero greenhouse gas economy.
it is regrettable that the €40 billion budget proposed by the european commission was reduced to only €17.5 billion in the council, and i stress the importance of securing additional funding from the union's own resources system in the future, such as the revenue generated by the plastic tax, the fair taxation of the big digital giants or the resources that will be generated by the future emissions trading system.
last but not least, the european union must guarantee the socioeconomic conversion of the regions concerned and at the same time ensure that sustainable jobs are created at least at the level of those that will be eliminated with the closure of mines and large polluting industries.
this fund is an attempt to support the ecological transition in the member states.
the agreed eur 17,5 billion is insufficient to cover the socio-economic needs of the energy paradigm shift, therefore i consider that the possibility of supplementing the budget in 2024 should be considered on the basis of article 3 (3) on resources and article 5 on the green compensation mechanism of the regulation.
a just transition mechanism beyond 2027 is needed to support affected regions in an effective and sustainable way.
the commission considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on energy, research and technology,
madam president, commissioner, i believe that one of the greatest achievements of the european union is that we can guarantee our citizens the freedom to move and to find better paid work in another country.
the eu designed some emergency instruments, like the sure, and in the meantime the eu institutions have designed tools that are expected to ensure that recovery will be robust, sustainable, inclusive and fair.
these two instruments, amounting to more than eur 1.8 trillion over the next seven years, are endowed with ambitious climate and digital targets and have a very strong social focus, addressing challenges to employment, sustainability, resilience and competitiveness through reforms and investments.
we cannot allow the internal pressures of some groups to call into question the management of this crisis, which is a very different management from that of 2008. we all want our political priorities to be reflected, that is normal: we, the socialist and democratic group, have fought for the introduction of the criteria of environmental sustainability, social justice, equality between men and women, and we have done so openly in the negotiations, not with any other kind of delaying tactics; we have also insisted on including the social indicators which ensure that no one is left behind, and i think the commission has understood this very well.
if we really want to contribute, from the european union and the member states, to strengthening the global competitiveness of our industry, we must increase our industrial ambition to the level of our environmental ambition.
under these circumstances, many independent outlets disappear from the market, as they cannot maintain financial sustainability.
digital rules should support democratic principles, human rights and sustainable development.
madam president, without a non-discriminatory distribution of responsibility at all levels and sectors of the economy, the green deal would remain a revolution on paper that would bring some to their knees and unjustly push others to historic heights, because now the responsibility for pollution seems to fall solely on the shoulders of farmers, exonerating other areas, as if they had made no contribution to this global phenomenon.
i am referring in particular to entities that try to circumvent european legislation by opening subsidiaries in third countries and allowing it, or to those that have cleared forests in europe and have never been held accountable by the law for the disaster they have caused: catastrophic floods, loss of human life and biodiversity, destruction of animal habitats that have forced them to move to cities, hungry and sometimes aggressive, as is happening in romania, for example.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, colleagues, eight years ago, my country experienced protests over an environmental issue that has become a symbol.
the explosion in the "romanian autumn" as the international press called this period was possible thanks to 15 environmental organizations that always fought.
the environmental agreement required it to reforest 29 hectares to compensate for this deforestation, but the company did not comply with the obligation.
this is what it looks like, commissioner, the fight for a clean environment at its roots.
but the environment doesn't always have to be the loser.
in the battle between two private parties, no one takes the side of the environment.
that is why we are voting today for this regulation, to empower those who fight for the environment every day, the ngos and the ordinary people.
we have a long way to go before the online environment is truly secure, before we can really talk about a digital transformation that puts the citizen in safety.
the eu needs to join forces with member states’ regional and local authorities to achieve sustainable progress, and we must also involve all stakeholders in a spirit of genuine partnership.
mr president, commissioner, i think it's clear to everyone already that we can no longer afford to talk about climate change as a very distant scenario.
moreover, climate change is forcing us to adapt the conditions for accessing the crisis fund, which at the moment cannot be used to freeze.
in the current climate context, i don't think we can leave any natural phenomena out of the rapid response measures.
as the union regulates the new generation of financing and the functioning of markets and services, in particular digital markets, it is essential to ensure that smes are increasingly a key enabler of technological innovation, social and environmental sustainability and the competitiveness of the european economy.
instead, the commission and the left want to further increase the burden on businesses, whether it's tax or sustainability.
more ambition than in any other climate policy.
to show that we care, we need to look closely at the strategy for smes in a sustainable and digital europe and identify ways to boost innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the biodiversity of the european seas, and in particular of the mediterranean sea, is declining at a dizzying rate and we cannot stand by in the face of this disastrous degradation.
it is time to act and it is crucial to vote in favour of the introduction of binding targets to protect 30% of european waters and to protect strictly 10% of them, putting an end to the devastating impact of activities such as drilling, pollution from maritime transport, urban and industrial discharges, marine waste, including plastic, and industrial fishing.
we give space and opportunity for valuable ecosystems and habitats to recover and for sustainable artisanal fisheries to survive.
because romanian forests absorb 6% of european carbon dioxide annually, so we all care about what happens.
the conservation of our nature is of paramount importance and europe must do better in promoting and defending biodiversity.
but it must be done with the right policies - biodiversity and forests are too important to fail.
i hope we can vote for a strategy that effectively increases our biodiversity without limiting the swedish forest's potential to be amazing.
– mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very rich debate, which highlighted once again both the high stakes and the imperative to deliver on the biodiversity agenda.
this is what i have been saying in all my speeches since we adopted the biodiversity strategy last year, and never have i or any of my colleagues pointed finger to fishermen, farmers or foresters.
the commission has always said that we need them on board and we need to support them in transition towards more sustainability.
the biodiversity crisis is so much advanced that we cannot lose time.
ensuring the necessary funding will be one of the crucial factors for the successful implementation of the biodiversity commitments by 2030. the mff interinstitutional agreement, which includes a commitment to allocate at least 10% of the multiannual financial framework for biodiversity in 2026 will support the achievement of this goal.
and let me be very clear, while it is true that the overall quantity of forests has started to increase over the last years, forest ecosystems are under more and more pressure in the eu and in all member states, and the protection of existing eu forests is absolutely crucial to achieve our climate and biodiversity objectives for 2030 and 2050. and we are not credible in pushing any ambitious eu policy to halting deforestation and forest degradation in the amazon or southeast asia if we allow for degradation in the eu old growth forests.
together with my colleagues janusz wojciechowski and vice-president frans timmermans, we are developing a new eu forest strategy for adoption in july, building on the eu biodiversity strategy to 2030, covering the whole forest cycle and promoting the many services that forests can provide.
in the coming days, we will launch a public online tool, a dashboard, illustrating progress in the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030. we also want to produce our first annual progress note later this autumn, and i would be happy to present and discuss progress at the european parliament by the end of this year.
to ensure full political ownership of the eu biodiversity strategy, the commission will also suggest a standing progress point at the council and at the european parliament.
agriculture and forestry play an important role in preserving and restoring biodiversity, in maintaining healthy ecosystems and viable rural areas, and in ensuring our food security.
the achievement of the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2030 (including organic area, reduction of chemical pesticides and fertilisers, soil health, pollinators, landscape, sustainable agricultural and agroforestry ecosystems) should not be a burden for farmers.
they should be supported and encouraged to move towards more sustainable production models and compensated for the ecosystem services provided.
in this regard, the effective implementation of the strategy should ensure not only the environmental but also the economic and social sustainability of the holdings.
nearly 90% of these carbon-rich and habitable forest ecosystems are in just four countries, including bulgaria.
the eu biodiversity strategy is a step towards achieving the climate neutral continent target.
by halting the decline of biodiversity, the strategy is an emergency plan to prevent potential future health crises.
this cannot be possible without a law to protect biodiversity and soil, proposals from the s&d.
i believe that the forest fund is our strongest ally in the fight against climate change.
however, for european forests to bring prosperity and environmental and socio-economic benefits, a balance is needed between their uniform protection and sustainable exploitation, as well as zero-tolerance measures for illegal deforestation.
however, i believe that the biodiversity strategy must reflect the crucial role farmers play in protecting and regenerating the soil, as they are the first beneficiaries of a healthy environment.
by voting, i will ensure that environmental targets do not become a burden and endanger the food security of the union.
the 2030 biodiversity strategy is a comprehensive, ambitious and long-term plan of the european union that aims to protect nature and reverse the degradation of ecosystems.
as far as agriculture is concerned, its impact on biodiversity and its importance in the european union are undeniable as stewards of the land, farmers play a vital role in conserving biodiversity.
they are among the first to feel the consequences when biodiversity is lost.
responsible and sustainable management of agricultural land has a positive impact on the development of biodiversity however, improper farming practices have a negative impact on our resources.
the loss of biodiversity, in other words of fauna and flora, has a negative and damaging impact on agricultural land in the medium and long term, even leading to the threat of food security.
agriculture must improve its environmental performance through more sustainable production methods that support nature therefore, additional charges cannot be imposed without additional money and farmers must be given financial support.
hungary is committed to the conservation of biodiversity and the promotion of environmental sustainability.
this does not ensure a balance between the environmental, economic and social aspects of sustainability.
sustainable forest management contributes to the conservation of the biological diversity of forests.
hungary is committed to sustainable forest management.
the multifunctional role of forests should be strengthened to achieve the eu's climate and biodiversity objectives.
hungary aims to increase the forest and wooded area to 27% by 2030. the ep's draft report does not present sustainable forest management in a consistent manner.
the commission has not acted responsibly: the biodiversity strategy has not been accompanied by adequate impact assessments.
there is a growing need for new types of low-risk pesticides and biopesticides, for the financing and widespread use of effective application techniques facilitated by tools such as digital and precision agriculture, and for the strengthening of farmers' training and advice systems in agro-ecological practices.
the european parliament is also well aware of our work on the single—window environment for customs on which we need to progress quickly.
the interinstitutional commitment was that this proposal would be on the table of the european parliament in june, but it seems that there will be some delay, and i simply want to say that we cannot delay any longer a proposal so necessary both to combat climate change and to help the industrial sector of our europe.
but the second aspect, of course, is that we want and we have to use these own resources to contribute to climate change in a positive way.
but again, europe is leading the way and we will be leading the way in proposing new own resources to make a very substantial contribution to combating climate change and to ensuring greater tax justice.
in this regard, the interinstitutional agreement reached at the end of 2020 established the own resources roadmap including which new own resources are introduced and their timetable: an own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste which entered into force on 1 january this year, a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a digital tax and a european emissions trading system which are expected to be presented by the commission this month and should be introduced by 1 january 2023. the purpose of the plenary debate at this part-session was to keep up the pressure on the commission to implement the agreed own resources roadmap.
in this regard, the interinstitutional agreement reached at the end of 2020 established the own resources roadmap including which new own resources are introduced and their timetable: an own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste which entered into force on 1 january this year, a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a digital tax and a european emissions trading system which are expected to be presented by the commission this month and should be introduced by 1 january 2023. the purpose of the plenary debate at this part-session was to keep up the pressure on the commission to implement the agreed own resources roadmap.
first with emergency tools, then with tools designed to boost the recovery and to build a fairer, greener, more sustainable and resilient future.
our citizens are ready to embrace a more sustainable, a more digital and a more resilient future.
fiscal reforms will make public finances and tax systems more sustainable.
strengthened governance will improve the business environment, especially for smes.
for example, the cross-border projects on renewable hydrogen or the precision medicine powered by ai, or the smart clean transport for suburban areas, just to name a few.
and let me give you some numbers, first for the protection of nature and climate.
today, member states are spending around 50 billion euro on clean energy, for example, for the production of renewable energy or green water.
and at least 85 billion euro are used to promote sustainable transport, also the digitalisation of rail infrastructure, the electric car stations, the seamless mobility in our cities.
because we all know: transport and buildings are today among the largest emitters of greenhouse gas emissions.
a decade after the social democrats proposed the embryo of a european treasury, the states will for the first time jointly borrow to achieve ecological and digital recovery and to help those most affected by the pandemic.
the future of young people will be decided by the outcome of digital and energy revolutions capable of overcoming the current model of economic growth prone to inequality.
if we are to emerge from the pandemic strong and resilient, it is important that we invest and invest massively to achieve a sustainable recovery.
that is why all the political groups in the european parliament, from the left to the parliamentary right, with the sad exception of the far right, support it because we want to achieve a sustainable recovery of the economy, to reduce the disparities between the rich and the poor and between the rich and the poorest member states.
madam president of the commission, there are some plans that are not going to meet the target of devoting 37% of spending to climate objectives.
we owe them a decent, sustainable and digital and prosperous future.
madam president, climate change is no longer a future scenario, and when it overlaps with a health crisis, it wreaks havoc.
eur 12 billion in losses and the prospect of fish stocks halving by 2100. this is what the intergovernmental panel on climate change shows.
the fisheries sector in general and aquaculture in particular can be a powerful ally in the fight against climate change.
otherwise, we risk not only paying off their bill, but endangering their security...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the seas of the world are suffering the consequences of climate change.
the consequences for biodiversity and for small-scale coastal fishing are devastating.
the commission must protect and support small-scale coastal fishing, and the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
we would thus increase the resilience of the seas to climate change and offer them the opportunity to diversify their activities.
madam president, commissioner, climate change is a challenge that requires resilience and adaptation.
the design of such resilience and adaptability implies a global and integrated approach that also includes fishing activities, so that they are part of the collective effort for the sustainability and regeneration of nature.
but in combating climate change and the oceans, action must be coordinated with all the partners involved.
the impacts of climate change are becoming more and more visible in our coastal regions and, as all the speakers have pointed out, it is true that our fishermen and fisherwomen are the first to feel the detrimental effects.
therefore, i think we all agree that the climate resilience of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors must be fostered.
to this end, the new eu strategy on adaptation to climate change sets out a number of key measures which will protect our marine ecosystems and ensure sustainable fisheries in the long term.
these measures will also ensure our credibility at international level, where the commission will push for climate considerations in all ocean—related negotiations.
for example, we want to donate almost 50 million euros to the countries of the sahel region and east africa, regions hard hit by the economic consequences of the pandemic and by climate change, that is to say, droughts, floods, extreme weather conditions.
climate change is happening and science is leaving no room for doubt: there is no time to waste.
and that is why, despite the pandemic, europe chooses to accelerate the ecological transition by adopting a sustainable recovery plan.
because even a global warming of 1.5°c would have serious consequences, particularly in the less developed regions of the world.
with the us, we will not only grow our common trade and investment relationship in support of the green and digital transition of our economies but, together, we will also engage with our international partners for a shared commitment and joint action to reduce emissions by 2030 and to have tangible goals to become climate neutral economies by 2050. in this way, we hope, and we are working, to achieve the most ambitious possible outcome at cop26 in glasgow and at the biodiversity cop15 in kunming.
i also want to pick up on the climate debate as a second issue.
the first is that when we know now, when we are aware that travelling and housing will be two issues where we have to focus in the reduction of co2 and when we increase costs with a modern emissions trading system (ets), then it arrives in the pocket of our citizens, it will be very close to our citizens.
we must create jobs with the climate targets and not destroy jobs.
two points in the preparatory process for the climate package.
the citizens will trust us if they see that we are able to learn, not to waste time confronting each other who think differently, but to approach the solutions jointly, to give a response to the citizens.
last but not least, climate change remains one of the most urgent and important challenges of our mandate.
the european union is determined to make the transition to climate neutrality and make it a success story, as the president of the european commission said, to ensure sustainable economic growth, green industrial research and innovation and job opportunities for our citizens.
and we must not forget that this adaptation to climate change also means jobs.
the fit for 2030 - ready for 2030 package should set the framework for this transformation and should build on existing climate and energy legislation, while ensuring that people, as well as companies, enterprises are part of the transition and support it.
climate change remains an emergency that the whole world has to deal with.
the next step in the eu’s journey to climate neutrality will come next month, with a package of proposals that we are calling ‘fit for 55’.
it will provide the means to meet our 2030 target for reducing emissions by 55%.
i also believe in this prosperity union: being mobilised to meet the challenges of the climate transition and the digital transition.
of course, it puts pressure on us, it puts challenges on us, it requires innovation, creativity and the ability to be consistent, to make sure that when we set ourselves standards to meet this climate challenge, we can also engage internationally.
for example, the issue of the world price for carbon must be on the international agenda.
furthermore, the uk g7 presidency has put forward a very ambitious agenda on climate and biodiversity against the background of the two important events of this year, the cop26 on climate and the cop15 on biodiversity.
the eu is also committed to working with the g7 partners to adopt new, ambitious global targets on biodiversity for the cop15.
our own eu 2030 biodiversity strategy is a testimony to that.
we have a chance and a responsibility to help people make a living, keep them safe, fight climate change and stand up for democracy and human rights.
we would like to see this summit agree with the us on an ambitious cooperation agenda in four key areas: fighting the covid pandemic and driving forward a sustainable global recovery; second, protecting our planet and fostering green growth; third, strengthening trade, investment and technological cooperation; and fourth, building a more democratic, peaceful and secure world.
we are looking for new avenues for joint leadership: ending the covid-19 pandemic and driving the economic recovery; building a more democratic, peaceful and secure world; world trade organization reform; climate and green growth; trade and technology; levelling the global level playing field.
the eu will be calling for stronger multilateral cooperation, in particular on health, climate, the economic recovery, and bolstering our common values as open societies and democracies.
but we will equally insist that in order to build a better future, we should shift from crisis response to promoting strong, resilient, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth.
leading on environment and climate action is the eu’s first priority.
at the g7, we will continue pushing for ambitious cop 26 commitments on climate change and for ambitious cop 15 commitments on biodiversity.
at the summit, the g7 will show strong leadership by signing up for an unprecedented joint commitment concerning net-zero emissions by 2050 at the latest.
first, i would like to highlight the need for a commitment to the mandatory publication of climate-related financial data.
it would be a strong signal that we can no longer bury our heads in the sand when it comes to climate change.
corporate climate transparency is an essential first step.
the european union has always been at the forefront of the fight against climate change, and i am speaking to the commission to remind it that we are committed to sustainable job creation and that citizens will soon be holding us accountable for the results of this commitment.
it's a topic that should be on the agenda when we talk about climate change.
only by overcoming the glaring inequalities on this globe will we succeed in building a fairer, more sustainable world tomorrow in the best interests of all of us.
on sustainable and inclusive recovery programmes, on climate action, on the digital transformation, on multilateral reform: in these areas and others, we must show that we are ready to once again lead from the front.
we also need to pursue our ambitious agenda for the long-term challenges we face, namely upholding our common values and fighting climate change, making our societies more sustainable, innovative, cohesive and prosperous.
we believe that president biden and his administration are ready and willing to cooperate with us, as the commissioner said, in the areas of climate and digital technologies, but also in the area of taxation, in the area of trade and in a strategic vision based on our common values.
without dampening other mutual foreign policy concerns, the main messages of this summit on setting a common agenda will have to be to ensure global health security, stimulate global economic recovery, build resilience to climate change, enhance digital and trade cooperation, and, very importantly, persist in strengthening democracy and the fight for human rights.
we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies.
let’s put laws, education, time, energy, protection and money on this road of theirs, and then we can talk about women’s empowerment and women’s rights.
this will ensure the most added value in terms of sustainability, efficiency and sound use of eu public funds as opposed to short-term procedures that not only force beneficiaries to a hand-to-mouth existence but are also administratively more costly.
we are talking about people who have difficulty accessing a qualification, finding a job or developing a sustainable professional career.
the sitting will therefore continue until 2 p.m. and the morning's discussions will be divided into two parts: the first part will begin at 8.30 a.m. and end at 11.30 a.m. and will include a discussion of the report by mr guteland on the european climate law.
the timely submission and efficient implementation of these plans is crucial for member states to fully benefit from the potential of the recovery and resilience facility to boost the economy, social cohesion, digital and climate transition.
in addition, it is essential to strengthen efforts to shut down smuggling and trafficking networks, improve border management and ensure voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable returns and readmission.
but we need to see clear and sustainable progress on a number of issues, including cyprus and trade issues.
we need to build the tools, the infrastructure and the environment in which national authorities can and will work together effectively to tackle these shared challenges.
basically, because the money should be invested in building a more sustainable and fairer economy.
the ecological revolution needs substantial financial support, particularly in the less developed regions of the european union.
these financing programmes must be adaptable so that member states and regions can allocate funds to the most relevant areas in order to offer sustainable development opportunities to economic operators and citizens.
i have to say, madam president, i have really looked forward to coming to the floor today, and i have done so because today we are celebrating a historic eu law which sets out in black and white a necessary goal, namely a climate-neutral eu by 2050. but it's no secret that i had hoped for a more ambitious path to that goal and a higher 2030 target.
our companies have seen the potential in developing new green solutions, and now we politicians have a new task, namely to create the right framework for companies to also bring their climate dreams to life.
mr president, climate change is no longer a matter of decades.
but wasting time, that's exactly what we're doing with this climate bill.
the targets are falling short, the approach is too liberal, and this law will not keep global warming below one and a half degrees.
and that's why it's with a heavy heart that i'm going to vote against this climate bill.
i have to say, madam president, climate neutrality by 2050 i'm a little reluctant to use big words, but the european union has started a new era.
it is crucial for nature and the environment, with great opportunities, but also with risks for the economy, jobs and people.
climate neutrality by 2050 with interim measures that are more than paris expects us to do.
instead of risking energy crisis, mass unemployment?
help turn the climate crisis into something good, ecological prosperity.
today marks a turning point for europe, which for the first time passes a climate law, a collective and long-term goal that will make us the first co2-free continent in the world by 2050. the climate law, at the heart of the european green deal, is the translation of our commitment and puts us on the path to a more sustainable future.
finally, the european union chooses to orient its growth strategy towards environmental sustainability, while ensuring a just, gradual transition that leaves no one behind.
our message today is a message of seriousness to young people who have done so much to push politics to take action in the fight against climate change.
but the climate bill is also a message to our international partners: this is the decisive year to raise the level of global ambition in pursuing the goals of the paris agreement and to finally shake the conscience of the major world players.
the pandemic has brutally shown us the correlation between the environment and our health, and recovery plans offer us the chance to start over on a new course.
madam president, madam secretary of state zacarias, mr executive vice president timmermans, the climate change of the last few years is alarming, and unless we take clear, organized action, the predictions for the next period are worrying.
that's why the climate bill we're voting on today is more than necessary.
the extreme weather events that are the hallmarks of climate change that we're experiencing are increasingly evident in recent times, and we're seeing that even today: from long-term droughts in some areas, to wildfires, to heavy rainfall in other areas.
it's important that this law brings major improvements to our way of life, it's important that we have the lines that we need to follow in our activities, to stop climate change or even make it reversible wherever possible.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, mr. president, mr. secretary, mr. timmermans, as has been said today, today we are passing climate legislation, climate rules, that give us a direction on how we can achieve an additional 30% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 and become a net-neutral continent in terms of greenhouse gases by 2050. to achieve this, we will have to do a lot in the coming weeks, months and years.
first of all, to define a taxonomy which, in addition to renewable energy sources, will certainly have to pay attention to other low-carbon sources, and in this respect i ask you, commissioner, and all the others, to respect technological neutrality, because we will have to use many and all the resources at our disposal for this demanding transition.
agriculture and forestry will play an important role, because they are the sectors that also need to adapt themselves to have a smaller impact on the environment, and also to be less affected.
and these are the industries that are going to make this carbon neutrality possible, because agriculture and forestry are carbon sinks.
i have to say, madam president, we are making history with the european climate law.
we affirm that climate change is a transboundary problem that requires transboundary solutions.
everyone must contribute to making the eu climate neutral by 2050. the climate law gives us the common framework for how we're going to do this over the next 30 years, and our climate action is going to be based on science.
that is why we are now setting up an independent european climate council to be based in copenhagen as part of the european environment agency.
the climate council is to guide us in making legislation and to ensure that our climate action is both in line with the climate law and the paris agreement.
to achieve the goal of climate neutrality by 2050, we have set a 2030 target.
we need to reduce our co2 emissions by at least 55 percent by 2030. i would have liked a much higher reduction target.
today we are taking a big step forward on climate, and it is urgently needed.
that's why i support the climate bill.
madam president, mr vice president timmermans, madam president zacarias, the climate nightmare is going to hit us all.
the climate crisis is not in the future, it's already here and now.
i believe that the european climate law is not just an opportunity, a mockery of some bureaucrats in brussels, it is our very last lifeboat.
in romania, for example, in just two of the largest energy complexes, namely oltenia and hunedoara, over 8 000 people will be laid off by 2032. that's why we asked for money for these people, we asked for 17.5 billion - and luckily parliament fought for this money - because they need this money now, because the territorial plans of the member states are not yet finalized.
– i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund, and that we will be able to support the renewal of generations of fishermen from the black sea, and create the premises for a sustainable development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector in europe, and implicitly in romania.
active ageing measures should allow for activities with an impact on the community, a flexible work environment for older employees, intergenerational exchanges and actions to maintain health status.
we discussed possible selective engagement with russia in areas of eu interest climate change, environment, health, foreign affairs and security and we will explore the formats of, and conditions for, dialogue with russia.
we also believe that the two pillars of these fundamental transitions, climate change and the digital agenda, must be at the heart of our concerns.
and we see with some satisfaction that several european countries that have already introduced plans have been very careful to follow these recommendations to devote a significant part of the funding to this recovery, through climate transitions and digital transitions.
the president of the commission has re-focused the countries around the table on proposals to move forward on this important issue and i note that many have also expressed the importance of working on the green dimension of this capital market and the idea of promoting this green finance as a lever for economic development, but also to gradually achieve our ambitious climate targets.
the commission will shortly present a package of legislation on climate, but also a package on own resources.
in both countries, the climate of hatred and the witch-hunt that has been initiated by the governments has turned the lgbtqi community into the public enemy of the nation.
it's the balance between ecological transformation, globalization and local production that we need to find to prevent economic crises.
the ecological, digital and social transformations we want in the european union, cohesion policies and the provision of quality healthcare can only be achieved by building a secure, competitive and prosperous economy.
you have to be able to count on your colleagues: from security to baggage handlers to cabin crew, everyone contributes to a safe flying environment and thus to a safe flight.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by joanna kopcińska, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 851/2004 establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control (com ((2020) 0726 - c9-0366/2020 - 2020/0320 ((cod)) (a9-0253/2021), and the report by véronique trillet-lenoir, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on serious cross-border threats to health and repealing decision no 1082/2013/eu (com (2020) 0727 - c36/09/07/2020) (a9-02222 (cod)).
but perhaps the clearest message that we have received, and that we are all looking at and discussing here today, is that the european union needs to be better prepared for future health emergencies and to deliver a post-covid recovery that makes europe healthier, more inclusive, more resilient and more sustainable.
'carbon must have its price, because nature can no longer pay the price,' said ursula von der leyen.
the big question is how much of the carbon price can be borne by the vulnerable classes of citizens.
we will see price increases that will lead to deepening energy poverty, unprecedented rural-urban gaps, increased vulnerability of the poorest population.
for this reason, i ask the commission to carry out a specific impact assessment of this fund, estimating how and by how much prices will rise, how far this social fund will be able to mitigate the effects of energy poverty that are foreseen, and the granting of aid-grants to really support vulnerable consumers.
today's commission presentation on fit for 55 predicts an over-acceleration of the ecological transition, which will create negative impacts on businesses and workers in many sectors.
we are seeing the excessive increase in the cost of energy bills these days and there has been a crisis in the price of raw materials and the supply of semiconductors for some time.
on these points the commission is not aware of the negative economic impact of its environmental policies, such as the increase in the price of emission allowances, and is wasting time without proposing adequate solutions, to the detriment of european businesses and citizens.
moreover, if we look at the data on co2 emissions in europe over the last few years, we can see how little our continent actually does to affect global pollution.
the plan presented today will lead to a costly ecological transition that only the richest can afford and that will fall on the shoulders of many european businesses and citizens.
the sixth assessment cycle report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, published in august, made it even more urgent to take effective action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, or else the point of no return in terms of planetary sustainability will be reached.
it is in this context, and in the run-up to the united nations climate change conference (cop26) to be held in glasgow in october and november this year, that an institutional reinforcement of commitment to european targets is essential, through the implementation of the 'fit for 55' package, which aims at a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030. we need a disruptive paradigm shift.
a change in which the speed of transition cannot be separated from its justice, energy poverty cannot continue to reach intolerable levels and the poorest in the world or in europe cannot pay the price.
the climate emergency and the deepening inequalities are two systemic problems that can only be solved simultaneously.
the joint debate on natural disasters in europe, as determined by the oral question to the commission on natural disasters in summer 2021 (o-000059/2021 - b9-0035/2021) (2021/2867 ((rsp)) and the commission statement on the impacts of natural disasters in europe due to climate change (2021/2876 ((rsp)) is continued.
the shock is immense and we are discovering our own fragility, that of the european regions, in the face of climate disasters.
because here, as elsewhere, we are not really prepared to deal with the increasingly devastating impacts of ongoing climate change.
as we stressed in our last report on the eusf, we must now consider that these once exceptional disasters are becoming a permanent reality with climate change, as the recent ipcc report reminds us, and we must draw the full consequences of this in all european policies.
but beyond the emergencies, there is also the central issue, in my view, of adaptation to climate change.
this is a real challenge for the whole of cohesion policy, because climate change will lead to a destabilisation of regional development, with consequences in all sectors of development.
we had a very interesting debate this morning on the climate package.
but i note that all the measures that are being considered are aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while we are missing the challenge of adapting to climate change.
that is why i am calling, together with my colleagues, for the creation of a regional climate change adaptation fund to undertake the necessary work on infrastructure to make it sustainable and to limit the consequences of disasters.
and as commissioner timmermans has just said, the billions of investment required for this will always be less than the cost of inaction on climate change.
climate change brings more extreme weather events, heatwaves, floods and forest fires.
climate change induced risks must be taken very, very seriously.
as far as sweden, global warming has shown its power this year, with particularly heavy flooding.
there is no doubt that these extreme weather events would have been very unlikely if it had not been for global warming.
that is what the ipcc states in its much-publicized summer climate report, namely, that man's burning of fossil fuels is causing these extreme weather events to occur now almost every year - what once might have happened every hundred years.
although it became clear that the climate crisis is also hitting us here and now, it is those living in the poorer countries and the poorer parts of the world who will be hit the hardest and are already doing so.
it is time to live up to our international commitments and secure the paris agreement's agreed climate adaptation funding.
our strategy to reduce our energy dependence on russia is a worthless piece of paper as long as north stream becomes a reality.
this means remaining open for dialogue and engagement to pursue the ambitions of global public goods and the sustainable development goals, defending our values and citizens in a spirit of unity and solidarity, stepping up our efforts to continue closing loopholes and beefing up our resilience.
in our relations with third countries such as china, economic, technological and other cooperation - including trade and investment agreements - is conditioned by us on the strict standards we want to impose on ourselves and others in relation to democracy and human rights, climate objectives, public health... this is perfectly justified, of course, but it should be a sign of balance and a recognition that the ultimate effect of our policies must not be detrimental to our own prosperity and security.
it’s a chance for a life here in europe, with all the history and culture and energy our vibrant european cities and regions and our continent have to offer – and that makes the blue card uniquely attractive in the global competition for talent.
never underestimate the skills, talent, energy and ambition that refugees have to offer.
and the aim is to jointly create a state-of-the-art european chip ecosystem, including production.
they are pushing us to go further and faster to tackle the climate crisis.
the united nations recently published an ipcc report, the intergovernmental panel on climate change.
it is the authority on the science of climate change.
climate change is only man-made.
in my speech last year, i announced our target of at least 55% emissions reduction by 2030. since then we have together turned our climate goals into legal obligations.
we will put a price on pollution.
we will clean the energy we use.
and we will make sure that higher climate ambition comes with more social ambition, because this must be a fair green transition.
this is why we proposed a new social climate fund to tackle the energy poverty that already 34 million europeans suffer from.
when it comes to climate change and the nature crisis, europe can do a lot.
i am proud to announce today that the european union will double its external funding for biodiversity, in particular for the most vulnerable countries.
major economies, from the us to japan, have set ambitions for climate neutrality in 2050 or shortly after.
because current commitments for 2030 will not keep global warming at 1.5°c within reach.
the world would be relieved if they showed they could peak emissions by mid-decade and move away from coal at home and abroad.
the so-called climate finance is essential for them, both for mitigation and adaptation.
we will now propose an additional eur 4 billion for climate finance until 2027. but we expect the united states and our partners to step up too.
this is vital because closing the climate finance gap together, the us and the european union, would be such a strong signal for global climate leadership and it is time to deliver now.
this climate and economic leadership is central to europe’s global and security objectives.
the good news is that over the past years, we have started to develop a kind of european defence ecosystem.
from the new tech and technology council to health security and sustainability, the european union and the united states will always be stronger together.
but this speed is what we also need now in other fields of the research sector and in the investments for the climate protection.
they must be the beginning of a transition towards a more sustainable economic and social model, a true sustainability pact.
the climate act is an important milestone towards achieving climate neutrality by 2050, and this parliament has succeeded in raising the greenhouse gas reduction above 55% by 2030. but we cannot fall into complacency.
it is certainly in the area of environmental sustainability that the european commission's agenda has made the most progress, with a whole battery of laws, with the package of measures objective 55. it is a team effort led by vice-president timmermans and a demonstration that collegiality works when all the ideas and energies of the whole college are combined.
among them, we socialists are missing a law to protect biodiversity.
to avoid a social fracture as we move forward with environmental policies, it is essential to strengthen the social climate fund.
and when i say to strengthen the social climate fund, i mean to give it more financial means and clear criteria for its distribution.
in its outlook report a year ago, the commission said that a resilient europe will emerge earlier and emerge stronger from any crisis to implement the sustainable development goals.
on the green agenda and the implementation of the climate package, which we discussed at length yesterday, but also on the negotiations on the migration package or on the digital agenda, you will need us to get the council moving.
they cannot provide a permanent supply of energy, it is a robbery of nature.
now we have to make the ambitions, which are many in the environmental field, in the social field, in the field of the rule of law and the defence of democracy, a reality.
and then you're going to have to weigh in with all your might to build those majorities and accept that not everyone is going to be part of it, that there are people who won't want more financial solidarity, people who won't want more climate action, people who won't want real action on the rule of law issue.
in the past, each wave of expansion has brought new energy and momentum.
we in the socialist and democratic group work well with the commission and are pleased that they have incorporated many of our progressive proposals and policies into their programme, such as the proposal to introduce a european minimum wage and more ambitious climate targets, which are also being achieved.
we always want to put sustainable development and prosperity, including environmental, health and social progress, at the forefront.
in your speech you completely omitted the energy security of the union.
the energy blackmail that europe is currently undergoing only proves how dangerous the nord stream 2 project is.
together we have started to build the european health union, we have adopted the european climate law committing ourselves to become a climate neutral continent by 2050, and the covid crisis has only accelerated the digital transition of our societies and economies.
initiatives such as the social climate fund, through which member states will help citizens to finance investments in energy efficiency, new heating and cooling systems and cleaner mobility, can make a significant contribution to strengthening collective capacities to meet the challenges posed by climate change and digitalisation.
this has been clearly demonstrated by past challenges, from the debt crisis, to the migration crisis, to the unresolved and very challenging climate crisis or the pandemic.
but there were also some surprising points, such as the announcement of doubling eu funding for global biodiversity and increasing the european contribution to supporting the ecological transition in the world's least developed countries.
first of all, there must be real solidarity within the union, including in the form of a social pact for the climate, which we, the european social democrats, are proposing.
secondly, a global partnership is needed to save the planet, of which the eu contributes only 9% of pollution.
it's just that after we've imposed strict rules on them, and let them fend for themselves during the pandemic, when we were on the verge of a food crisis, we're doing it now, when they're struggling to put the same cheap, sustainably produced food on our table in the cruel conditions created by the explosion in energy prices.
we talk about how the european agricultural sector can contribute to the world's sustainable development goals, but we ignore a tool that our farmer urgently needs to produce affordable food sustainably and remain globally competitive.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we agree that the mediterranean sea is one of the areas with the greatest biodiversity in the world, but that its current worrying environmental status is seriously endangering not only this biodiversity, but also the very survival of the fishing sector that depends on it.
we also share your analysis that the implementation of the new fisheries governance in the mediterranean and the efforts made by the eu to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the protection of the ecosystem are starting to give positive results.
in the mediterranean sea, pollution and climate change have an important impact on the health of the stocks, and therefore it is necessary to tackle both pollution and climate change.
fishers need adequate financial support through the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund to achieve our common objective of the sustainability of the stocks.
in this context, the state of the environment is also a key driver for the health of fish stocks.
the commission will table by the end of the year a proposal for a nature restoration law, which is a deliverable of our biodiversity strategy.
i believe that, with the common fisheries policy, and with the support of the new tools we will put in place under the eu environmental policies, we have all the necessary tools to reverse overfishing and to rebuild stocks in the mediterranean.
and we should be proud of our lead to fight climate change.
in concrete terms, together with the us, we should work to promote multilateral cooperation for a more equitable and healthier world, fight against inequalities, cooperate better in research and technology development, and promote ecological transformation and the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
we look forward to continuing our close coordination with the us to get every country to do more to fight climate change.
it was sometimes a difficult discussion because we europeans only have eight per cent of global emissions.
even if we cancel them tomorrow – zero emissions – the problem would be the same.
this global methane pledge will be another occasion for us to cooperate with the us on climate change.
in september, our executive vice—president timmermans and us special presidential envoy for climate kerry co-chaired the second meeting of the high—level climate action group, which is one of the key deliverables of our eu—us summit.
climate change, technological transformation and international trade tensions are just few of the policy areas where we cannot afford to have disputes, but seek full cooperation across the atlantic.
if the ttc succeeds in finding a way to fight together for human—centric ai, like emerging disruptive technologies, to find good common standards, to set and speed up markets for green technology to cut emissions and to solve the climate crisis, we will not only have the brussels effect, but we can have, even better, a trans-atlantic effect for climate, for democracy, for human rights and for decent work.
the union is partnering with the united states with a strong energy dependence on the russian federation, which entails economic, social and political risks.
to mitigate these risks, we need to develop alternative energy supply systems, such as: investments in the development of the southern gas corridor from the caspian and middle east, the recognition of nuclear energy as a clean energy, massive investments in the production of electricity from renewable sources and, not least, the massive import of liquefied gas.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to welcome the discussions on the energy crisis on the sidelines of the extraordinary european council meeting in slovenia last night.
energy prices are an undeniable global phenomenon today, which is why, for me and many citizens, some ideologies have lost.
we now know that the european energy market is influenced by the rise in green certificate prices and the rise in natural gas prices which is in turn influenced by the policies of the russian federation.
in the context of the european taxonomy debates, i support investing in technologies that produce nuclear energy and natural gas.
knowing the negative impact of the increase in energy prices, it is imperative and urgent that the european commission and the member states identify solutions to protect the population affected by this increase and to support the economic environment.
madam chair, the discussion of the rising energy prices is urgent because it is an issue that directly affects many families.
energy prices have risen by more than 100% this year, and citizens are feeling the price shock on a daily basis when going to gas stations, when doing construction work at home or when going to buy basic groceries, which have risen by up to 30%.
we need to take urgent targeted action to protect socially vulnerable groups and the economy, without compromising the european union's ambition to become a climate neutral continent by 2050. in order to ensure affordable energy use for citizens and to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses, we need to reduce our dependence on imports and increase energy efficiency and use national recovery plans to increase investment in renewable energy sources.
and finally, for the energy transition to be successful, it must be socially sensitive and equitable.
vice-president barley, commissioner simson, minister logar, the increase in energy prices at the beginning of the cold season is alarming and most of you, honourable members, have said so in your discussions today.
it's all the more alarming that energy efficiency and renewable energy use are so far from where we want them to be.
in the short term, we can solve the problem of the few million people who will not be able to pay their energy bills this winter by subsidising them, but in the medium and long term, we need to come up with strong strategies and action plans that give due importance to domestic energy production, so as to achieve the greatest possible energy independence of households throughout the european union.
do we have the desire to make the energy sector green and have demonstrated that in 2019 in this room?
all that remains is the political will to finance the effort of all european union citizens to produce, use and even supply energy from renewable sources.
madam president, commissioner, we are seeing an increase in the price of energy due to market instability.
also, the commission's refusal to accept nuclear energy as clean energy is what is both hard to understand and hard to accept.
so we need realistic targets and we need to keep gas and nuclear until we have green energy to replace them.
renewable energy is a necessary goal, but if we just declare it without having it, it will result in market instability, an increase in energy poverty and, implicitly, a rejection of the green deal by the population, and perhaps a highly effective measure would be for mr timmermans to deal with another area than the green deal.
the health and energy crises have triggered a political crisis and, more importantly, an unprecedented social crisis.
overnight, millions of romanians received energy bills of 10-20 and in some hallucinatory cases 100 times higher.
this is unacceptable, because unlike the pandemic, the energy transition to meet the green deal targets was announced, and the commission had solemnly promised citizens that it was not they who would pay the price of change, but companies, and yet people are paying hard.
as this price explosion can only be partly explained by the rise in the price of carbon credits - the rest is speculation by entities inside and outside the european union - i therefore ask the european commission to urgently find the solution to redress the situation, but not a solution that rewards speculators, but a real one, that saves millions of europeans from poverty and hunger, and the union from a wave of social turbulence and euroscepticism.
the european union has been facing its biggest energy crisis in recent years, due to the skyrocketing prices of commercial natural gas and electricity.
the european union is expecting the start of the heating season with low gas storage levels and record energy prices.
in recent years, the left has turned energy policy into a debate, pushing common sense to the background.
and the commission has added to the gravity of the situation with a series of misguided policies and an overly ambitious climate package.
what is happening these days shows that the energy market cannot be liberalised like any other market.
energy companies wanted to make a profit now, not after the "get ready for 55" package of laws is implemented.
the energy market needs to be regulated.
energy is not a luxury, heating homes is not a luxury.
the commission has to be open to the use of gas and nuclear energy, since we cannot meet even half of our consumption needs from renewable or green sources.
until we have other green energy sources available, the gas must be exploited.
but before it is too late, i ask the european commission once again to answer the questions i have also put to it in writing, namely: - what are the consequences of the green transition for jobs; - what the consequences of the green transition are for the right to individual mobility; - what the consequences of the green transition are for the competitiveness of european companies; - what the energy needs will be in 2050, from which sources we will cover them and what the costs will be.
i welcome today's european commission proposals to support those affected by higher energy prices, in particular emergency income support for energy-poor consumers, temporary reductions in duties and taxes for vulnerable consumers, and support for businesses and industries, in line with eu state aid rules.
however, i would like to stress that member states should be able to use the unused european funds from the 2014-2020 period, in addition to the eu ets allowance funds, for capping and subsidising energy prices, under the n+3 rule.
this is vital for successfully overcoming the energy crisis in the less developed european states.
addressing rising energy prices for businesses and consumers is particularly important in the time of economic recovery after the covid-19 crisis.
it is necessary to focus on renewable sources and strengthen the eu single market by increasing energy efficiency.
the interim solution from the european commission will offer direct payments to consumers and shift charges to general taxes and provide rebates for smes to reduce the social impact of energy poverty.
the commission's priority is to ensure a transparent and fair gas market, while investing in energy storage to prevent energy crises and dependence on gas.
the sharp rise in energy prices is a matter of great concern.
already, europe's gas supplies and reserves are in short supply, but winter is coming and we are facing a severe energy crisis.
first, the security of energy supply must be guaranteed and second, the consumer must be guaranteed an affordable price, since astronomical energy prices have a devastating effect on both the private consumer and industry.
if supply is significantly below demand, energy prices rise sharply.
i would remind you that in the course of the turning of the grass, we must not stigmatize or dismantle too quickly the existing controlled energy sources.
otherwise, supply will again fall far short of demand and we will again be in an energy and price crisis.
the current situation has been influenced by several factors, such as the lack of availability of renewable energy and the lower than expected gas supply from russia.
we certainly need to reduce europe's dependence on russian gas, because in the current situation, russia's influence on the whole of europe's energy consumption is criminal.
russia has used energy as a political weapon in the past, for example against ukraine, and there is no reason to exclude that the same fate may befall europe.
the situation in the energy sector needs to be brought under control as a matter of urgency, as rising energy prices will also lead to overall inflation, which in turn threatens the european economy as a whole.
these negative trends are clearly dangerous for the economy and will increase the prices of goods and services, as they are directly affected by energy prices.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
the seriousness of this phenomenon is shown by the very definition which defines energy poverty as a situation where a household or an individual is unable to access the basic energy services that ensure a decent standard of living.
in view of the rising energy prices, the union must therefore implement an aid scheme to compensate people for the difference between the old and new energy prices.
better monitoring of the problem at member state level should also be initiated through the development of integrated national energy plans based on in-depth market analysis and forecasts of energy and raw material consumption and prices.
i regret that we had to come to an energy crisis to discuss the issue of eu gas supply, given that for more than half a year the level of storage has been at an alarming level compared to the average of recent years.
i am afraid we will also have to see the use of energy supply as a lever to realise the danger of energy dependence and to understand that we need, as a matter of priority, to exploit all the resources available in the eu and to diversify sources of supply.
unfortunately, the explosion in energy prices and the prospect of winter shortages show us how unrealistic the energy union project and the european energy security strategy are.
the energy poverty that increasing numbers of european citizens are suffering is a sad irony of the present replica of the hydrogen-fuelled dreams... in this serious context, i call on the commission and the council to act more coordinatedly, firmly and swiftly than they usually do in order to provide concrete support to citizens and to identify solutions to the energy crisis, which is unfortunately only at an early stage.
energy prices have risen significantly in recent weeks and there are few european households that have not felt this.
the increase in energy prices leads to an increase in consumer prices, including food prices.
it is up to the commission to propose a solution, a european approach that, among other things, takes into account the diversification of energy sources and emphasises european clean energy, effectively contributes to climate protection and at the same time avoids market pressures.
a functioning eu energy policy requires taking account of the specificities of the member states, regional differences and agreements with third-country partners.
murders, arbitrary detentions, forced displacements and the use of collective punishment, the violation of freedom of religion and the increased oppression of christians are but a few examples of the abrupt deterioration of the political climate in the country.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the green deal revolution is vital in the european union's fight against climate change.
it is one thing to protect biodiversity and try to mitigate the impact of climate change, and quite another to endanger the food security of eu citizens.
but as a right-wing politician, i would like to appeal to the commission, commissioner, to give real support to the people who need the support of the european union, the people who are really vulnerable, and to stop the waste of public money.
we want to invest in a sustainable future, including climate, research, innovation, health, digitalisation, transport and agriculture, for which we believe an extra eur 2 billion is needed.
the eu is leading the way with its climate law and climate package.
even china has pledged climate neutrality.
in paris, we changed direction, but the emissions kept rising.
cop26 must be a turning point – not just for the conversation, but also for emissions.
today’s pledges, which will result in three degrees of heating, are far from enough to avoid a climate catastrophe.
instead, we need radical action, such as ending fossil fuel subsidies, pricing emissions as in the ets and action on climate finance.
they really don't want to be the generation that has first-class tickets to the drama called "global warming".
for them, for those who will stay and feel the effects of climate change.
our children must no longer die from pollution in europe, they must no longer be trapped in natural disasters, in floods, in forest fires, in toxic spills.
the political climate in the country needs to be improved and reforms pursued if accession negotiations are to resume as soon as possible.
here the european union is rapidly transforming to address global challenges, including climate change, digitalisation and security.
as potential future eu member states already closely linked to relevant eu policy areas by trade, transport or energy, our partners in the region are an important part of our vision for a stronger, greener and more resilient europe.
green alternative transport means that significantly reduce pollution are increasingly found on our public roads.
the content of curricula and the organisation of education systems is a national competence and must remain so, but the new challenges digitalisation, climate transition, demography, security require the mobilisation of european instruments and support policies within the european education area (eea).
it's used in energy, when we want to improve methods of measuring efficiency, for example, of solar cells.
it serves the environment to improve and monitor pollutants in the atmosphere.
at this session we will vote to launch the european partnership in metrology, which will enable us to develop public policies and address socio-economic and environmental challenges.
mr president, our citizens have recently learned of a new danger: the possible collapse of the energy grid.
such an event, we are told, could occur in the near future, perhaps even this winter in some states, and experts warn that a widespread blackout is more likely than ever today, because of the increased frequency of atmospheric and climate anomalies, a green hill without a real energy safety net, skyrocketing prices and russia's dirty tricks, which we continue to treat with gloves.
i therefore ask the commission to analyse the risk and, if it is real, to take immediate action, to identify the causes, to ensure that renewable energy - which unfortunately fluctuates - has access to european networks, to even consider postponing some of the measures provided for in the new green strategies and to launch an information campaign for the public.
our agreement includes starting discussions on the new global arrangement on sustainable steel and aluminium.
we are addressing environmental challenges and market opportunities for clean technology, and we are ensuring more resilient and secure supply chains, in particular in semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and critical materials for our economies.
we will work together on global trade challenges like non—market economic policies and practices, the protection of labour rights such as combating forced and child labour, and addressing trade—related aspects of climate and environmental action will also be part of our work.
the ttc will only be fruitful if it does not become a body for securing global dominance in technology and industry, but with its working groups, with the broad stakeholders it is intended to bring, the consultations and exchanges of views will serve as a real forum for dialogue on sustainability and overcoming poverty.
in short, if the commitments made are not binding, as has been repeatedly stated, what is the level of commitment and commitment of the partners, especially in relation to certain collective challenges such as measures to limit emissions or artificial intelligence?
another example to show that the world can’t afford trade barriers that hinder green tech to help the climate crisis.
the covid-19 pandemic has shown us how fragile the global production systems are, and we need to build resilient and sustainable supply chains for tomorrow.
last week i was in washington with the mission from the committee on industry, research and energy and there was openness and a warm welcome on the part of our american counterparts.
the digitalisation of social security coordination should take place within the overall digital transformation of public administration across europe, while taking into account the constantly evolving labour markets with a view to ensure a fair and sustainable mobility for workers.
the commission takes note of other important topics covered by the report, such as the protection of the eu’s strategic interests, the need to address climate and biodiversity challenges, and the implementation of the european pillar of social rights.
now it's important for states to do projects for hospitals, highways, schools and the environment.
it means we can farm for biodiversity, for carbon sequestration.
the second issue is the environmental issue, which has been of great concern to us in this area.
of course, agriculture is also a future area, especially in the climate area.
agriculture and forestry capture co2 and therefore contribute to preventing and overcoming the climate crisis.
madam president, for three years, we have been saying that the proposal for the next cap is fundamentally flawed, that it is inadequate to fight climate and biodiversity crisis and the loss of small farmers all over europe.
most of them confirm our fear that the environmental ambition will be set as low as possible.
it would be completely absurd to support both the farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, and this cap.
regarding the ‘new delivery model’, it will fail to tell us if the cap is actually delivering on the ground what taxpayers expect: they want more sustainable practices and more support for small farmers.
europe must understand that environmental sustainability cannot exist unless the economic sustainability of farms is protected first.
europe too often forgets that the first defenders of the environment are our farmers, who must be guaranteed income support to prevent the closure of farms and the abandonment of fields.
however, it is important to bear in mind and take into account the different types of risks and threats to the agricultural sector, such as the long-term effects of brexit, the negative effects of the covid-19 pandemic, or the recent surge in energy prices resulting in a large increase in the cost of agricultural production.
second, the new complementary redistributive income support for sustainability (criss) mechanism sets aside 10% of payments to further reduce inequality between big and small farmers.
and for those who say that we're not making much progress towards sustainability, i have to say that we will spend 10 billion euros every year in the next few years on sustainability projects in the first pillar alone.
the second pillar is the agri-environment programmes.
but sustainability is not just about being environmentally sustainable; it also has to be economically sustainable, which is just as important.
agricultural policy is not only environmental policy, it is also economic policy.
we have managed to set up an ambitious budget for eco-schemes, for agri-environment measures that will help farmers in the transition to a more environmentally conscious agriculture and biodiversity.
the reform we're voting on today is not just any reform, it's the most ambitious reform, with the most ambitious vision yet for our survival, offering the prospect of healthy food and a rebalanced environment, but it needs to be allowed to work.
why would we want to waste the last three years of negotiations and add two or three more to them for new negotiations?
will the environment have a win, will the green deal have a win, will any of us have a win?
the tension between sustainability and feasibility was a constant throughout the negotiations.
there were high expectations for both the farmers and the climate.
it guarantees the farmer an income and at the same time is firmly committed to sustainability.
my region of flanders is already taking the plunge and is already preparing 'pre-eco schemes', including precision and carbon agriculture.
the common agricultural policy is not just an environmental policy, it is much more than that, it concerns our whole life.
that means more funds for health, for education, for the environment, for smes, for tourism, for social policies, for internal and external solidarity.
i recently returned from cop26 in glasgow and met with several delegations from developing countries who were deeply irritated, angry and frustrated that both vaccine targets and climate finance targets have deeply damaged the confidence that we are actually not delivering on these things.
for global cooperation, for climate, for health, for economics, for social, it is crucial that we vaccinate everyone in the world.
the only sustainable solution, alongside security, is to expand african manufacturing capacity.
the potential increase of energy poverty among europeans is a risk we have acknowledged in the recent toolbox of proposals to combat rising energy prices, and we want to use the energy efficiency directive to reduce the burden on vulnerable households in tandem with the climate social fund.
energy poverty will reduce further as improvements in energy efficiency grow and as we increase our use of renewable energy across the eu.
and at the same time, the hydrogen and gas decarbonisation package coming next month will also include a set of reinforced provisions on consumer protection in the gas and hydrogen markets, drawing inspiration from those applied in the energy market.
second, some of you mentioned soaring energy prices.
however, increasing energy prices only remind us that we remain too reliant on fossil fuels in the eu, and we know that in the medium and longer term, we will need to replace unabated fossil fuels, methane and natural gas.
we expect that biogas, biomethane, hydrogen and e-gases will provide sustainable options for decarbonisation across a wide range of sectors and also increase eu autonomy thanks to domestic production.
on the public side, the eu’s rate of public investment in clean energy technologies is the lowest of the major economies, even lower than it was in 2010. but the state of energy union report also clearly shows that eu recovery funding that targets clean energy r&i can help reverse this trend.
right now, the total duration of an offshore renewable energy project can be up to 10 years.
if this doesn’t change, it could jeopardise the energy transition and our goal of climate-neutral europe for 2030. we need to ensure faster permitting and authorisation processes, and as part of the red simplify project, we have carried out mapping, permit-granting and grid connection procedures.
tackling this issue is also of particular importance in light of rising energy prices.
the annual state of the energy union report provides an opportunity to discuss the performance of european energy policy.
the energy crisis raging across europe makes this analysis even more timely.
in the light of the facts and the process, it can be said that brussels' energy policy has failed and the blindness of the left and the bureaucrats is putting the achievements of the energy union at risk.
the european commission's bad decisions have led to an almost unbearable rise in energy prices.
the quadrupling of the price of natural gas and the tripling of the price of electricity are a serious indication of the serious flaws in current european energy and climate policies.
countries that reduce their emissions are despised, they're working on a climate tax and they're going to unleash market energy prices on the population.
this vision is totally unacceptable and could lead to a weakening of the energy union.
europeans deserve affordable energy and better, more sensible climate and energy policies than they currently have.
the 2015 energy union strategy sets the objective of the energy union as to provide eu consumers households and businesses with safe, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy .
i feel that this objective has never been more relevant since the energy union was set up.
this situation poses a serious threat both to households, which are increasingly struggling to pay high bills, and to industry, whose competitiveness is threatened by high energy prices.
we therefore need short-term solutions to protect the most vulnerable in this emergency, and long-term solutions to make the european energy market resilient.
i therefore call on the european commission to come forward with proposals to support member states in responding to rising energy prices and in protecting consumers from too drastic a price increase, as well as to consider building up strategic reserves and creating a european purchasing platform.
i find both the speech by european energy commissioner kadri simson and the report to which he referred disappointing.
unfortunately, the obsession with reducing emissions is stronger for the european commission than the reality of rising energy prices for citizens and businesses, the prospect of shortages of basic fuels or the lack of significant progress on energy efficiency.
for example, it is said that for the first time renewable energy sources have overtaken fossil fuels as the main source of energy in the eu.
it's more of an artificial shift in the market share of green energy.
in this respect, article 17 of the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office provides that, i quote, 'european delegated prosecutors shall be appointed for a renewable term of office of five years'.
in pharmaceutical policy, metoo is a waste of resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
– madam president, while i am very pleased to speak this evening on this very important file, i must say that i am a bit disappointed that there isn’t a full debate, and especially that the shadow rapporteurs haven’t had an opportunity to contribute as the cooperation i got from them in this report was as good as i’ve witnessed since i came here in 2009. and especially, of course, as the renovation of the eu’s building stock is a key green deal priority, not just as a way to reduce co2 emissions, but also as a driver for sustainable growth and job creation.
addressing the energy performance of buildings should be a precondition for every member state’s decarbonisation plans.
unfortunately though, the simple fact is that, taken together, current submitted long—term renovation strategies by the member states will not allow us to achieve 2050 climate neutrality.
reaching our climate targets without decarbonising our living and working spaces is just impossible.
the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd) is the main eu—level legal instrument for decarbonising member states’ building stock.
with energy performance certificates (epcs), there is a gap between real energy performances and calculated performances, which is a source of confusion for users.
member states should provide a clear link between their national long—term renovation strategies and adequate initiatives to promote skills and education in the construction and energy efficiency sectors.
in this regard, it will be pivotal to create a framework to leverage the use of data to improve actual energy consumption.
– madam president, i first of all would like to thank all the honourable members, and in particular the rapporteur mep seán kelly, for their own-initiative report and the involvement on the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd) implementation.
buildings are responsible for greenhouse gas emissions before, during and after their operational lifetime.
the 2050 vision for a decarbonised building stock goes beyond the current focus on operational greenhouse gas emissions.
while the focus of the proposal is the reduction of operational greenhouse gas emissions, the first steps are taken to address carbon emissions over the whole lifecycle of a building.
the recommendation of parliament’s own-initiative report expressed to a large extent the view of the european commission on the achievements and challenges in making sure that energy and efficiency renovations of buildings contribute to our updated climate targets.
on content, the submitted strategy showed broad engagement to provide easier access to financing, technical support, promotion of advisory tools such as one-stop shops, tackling energy poverty and better information, among other best practices.
to name a few, the proposal will strengthen the existing provisions on parking spaces in new and renovated buildings for the recharging of electric vehicles, in line with increased climate ambition, by lowering the threshold for the number of parking places.
with smart charging, the car can be charged when energy prices are low or when renewable energy is abundant, and it will also be possible to feed electricity back to the grid and use the car battery as a storage facility, vehicle to grid.
smart charging facilities, the integration of renewable energy such as wind and solar to the grid, and help decarbonise the energy system.
the proposal will support other forms of sustainable mobility, in particular e-bikes and bikes which require safe parking in residential and non-residential buildings.
this is why the proposal will also be addressing recharging points to support smart charging, which is also in line with the renewable energy directive and alternative fuels infrastructure proposals.
the european parliament has stated that member states' plans to increase the energy efficiency of buildings should favour those living in energy poverty.
the hungarian reality shows that on average hungarian households spend almost 60% of their household maintenance costs on energy.
the lower the income of a household, the more it spends on energy.
the inaction of the orbán government is appalling, as today every sixth household in hungary suffers from energy poverty.
while orbán talks about reducing taxes to help the rich, the european parliament, with the support of the democratic coalition, wants to reduce energy consumption through state-supported housing renovations.
so we're not just actively taking action on the climate crisis, but we're actually helping people who really need help.
the cheapest, cleanest, least harmful energy and the one that contributes most to reducing global warming is the energy saved through efficiency practices, particularly in buildings.
with this own-initiative report, the european parliament is at the forefront of proposing actions to make the most of the energy efficiency of buildings, in conjunction with plans to renovate the built heritage.
it is also a pillar in the fight against energy poverty and contributes to reducing property speculation and the lack of sustainable and affordable housing, in particular for young people.
it also contributes to the integration of new technologies for electric vehicle charging, smart grid deployment and renewable energy capture and storage, which will help the union to industrially reconfigure itself and lead the green transition in buildings, a sector deeply linked to people's well-being.
we are all concerned at the deteriorating security environment, as well as the continued pressure on these regimes.
we will continue to support effective multilateralism and rules—based international cooperation in order to ensure a more safe, sustainable and stable world in the wake of the covid—19 pandemic.
the eligibility of projects must be determined solely by their usefulness, their contribution to the economic and social development of the region and, of course, the fulfilment of environmental conditions.
i am therefore pleased that we are resolutely opting for strong rules that create a healthy and competitive digital climate, whereby, of course, smaller companies can also grow with me in belgium and elsewhere in europe and also have the opportunity to reap the benefits of the digital transition.
equalising studies and qualifications, implementing and extending the youth and children's guarantee, including youth funds in recovery plans, supporting inclusive and quality education in all member states, developing youth entrepreneurship, civic, environmental or digital education, and managing the impact of the pandemic on young people are just some of the issues that need to be addressed next year.
instead of looking for alternative sources of energy supply, we bought more and more gas from gazprom, money with which putin modernized the military that today sits on the borders of ukraine.
the pandemic has further highlighted the gap between the ambition of the goals and the sustainability of development we pursue and what we actually achieve on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world has certainly not improved in recent years and our humanitarian intervention needs to be reorganised and refocused in this global context, which has become more uncertain and worrying because of covid, unresolved conflicts, new territorial disputes, climate change and natural disasters.
we will look into strengthening compliance with international humanitarian law, into creating more predictable and flexible humanitarian funding, into enhancing disaster preparedness and anticipatory action, most notably in view of climate change.
the need for aid is mainly due to conflict, but also to other factors such as climate change, natural disasters, population growth, food insecurity, limited water supplies, etc.
– mr president, organised crime remains a major obstacle for the countries in the western balkans to create economic growth and to provide a safe environment for its citizens.
we're in the middle of a pandemic, energy prices are rising, inflation is rising, a war is raging on the ukrainian border.
i think this is one of the things we should focus on at the moment, and also be sure that all the climate goals that we enshrined in the regulation are well respected.
but not only that, also to ask member states in their recovery plans to update their climate and energy plans as they will need to do towards the 2030 goals.
finally, we need rules for fiscal sustainability that are responsive to reality, but which are citizen-centred.
dear governments, do not politicize this much-needed roadmap, do not waste a historic opportunity for your citizens!
in the environmental field, we talk mostly about mining, nuclear safety and air pollution.
the sino-serbian partnership has flourished in recent years, but it hides a dark side in the form of blatant environmental and labor rights violations.
commissioner, by signing the accession process - a process which i fully support - serbia has accepted specific environmental and social obligations which must be respected, and we must firmly remember this.
obviously, a lot of work is ahead of us, including on environmental issues, but also on the rule of law and fundamental rights.
more broadly, on environment, let me recall that the eu attaches great importance to, and advocates for, the highest sustainability requirements for all activities related to raw materials, from exploration, through mining, processing and trading, to post closure.
in view of minimising the environmental and social footprints of raw materials projects, the commission published, in september this year, the eu’s principles for sustainable raw materials.
the eu remains also the biggest donor and investor in environmental protection and addressing climate change in serbia.
in the past 15 years, the eu donated more than eur 435 million in grant funding to serbia for environmental protection.
whatever solidarity we may have with the struggles of these workers or the people for their environmental rights, we cannot support a resolution which uses them to circumvent a genuine treaty of interference, including through funding of entities which promote the interests of the eu.
those measures should be taken in a coordinated way, with the involvement of the european commission and member states, to avoid environment problems being translated from one member state to another and to avoid creating unnecessary delays and deviations in the supply chain.
we fully support policies aimed at improving the sustainability of our economy and preserving the environment.
a balance should therefore be found between the free movement of goods and environmental and health protection.
the court of justice confirmed that requirements in the public interest, such as the protection of the environment or health reasons, may justify a restriction if the measure is appropriate to achieving these goals, and does not go beyond what is necessary to achieving them.
as in any area of eu legislation, the commission has and will stand ready to help find solutions that take into account all relevant aspects, and find the correct balance between the different public interests such as the freedom of movement and the protection of environmental health, in order to ensure full respect of all eu law requirements.
i do not think that anyone can have a reasonable interest in the export of environmental problems from one member state to another.
as the italian delegation of the democratic party, we in the socialists and democrats are firmly convinced that environmental protection policies are a priority for current and future legislation, and we will always be in the forefront of defending them, but they cannot be implemented in a completely discriminatory way.
it is therefore essential that, alongside environmental protection, we should always consider the importance of recovery for the economic sectors which have suffered the most during this difficult period.