as the covid-19 pandemic has also highlighted, and even more so the need to join together to fight climate change, we need a real strategy to enable us to do this with asia.
we cannot achieve climate neutrality without a profound transformation of our development model from a linear system of design, production and consumption to a fully circular one that respects the limits of our planet.
the aim for the future must now be to have an impact on the first level of the waste hierarchy: the prevention.
the new legislation on sustainable products will be a key step in extending sustainability measures to product design and will have to take into account the requirements of durability, repairability, minimum content of recycled material in products.
we have an opportunity today, with next generation eu, to turn the circular economy principles of the green deal into concrete investments and at the same time support a lasting and solid economic recovery because it is environmentally and socially sustainable.
the problem is not just plastic waste.
we're making the climate crisis worse instead of helping to solve it.
so we need not only action plans, but i call on the commission to come up with concrete legislative proposals to ensure that we use less plastic, that we actually recycle it, that it is renewable and free of toxic substances.
first, there is the duty to spend public money well, to support the economy, to renew it, to make it sustainable.
the standards for sustainability are there and will be there, and parliament will help the commission to ensure that they are strictly enforced.
it is about the reforms that are necessary to tackle the biodiversity and climate crises, and about a just transition to a circular and digital economy.
for the benefit of young people who bear the brunt of a climate crisis that they cannot, and therefore must not, go into fossil fuels and environmental destruction.
no investment from this recovery plan may harm the environment, but must contribute to combating climate change and protecting biodiversity.
hopefully the eu will draw quick conclusions about what happened: among others, the inclusion of human rights violators on the sanctions list and the suspension of nord stream 2, which is contrary to european energy security policy.
even if we cannot forget about the risk related to the deepening of energy poverty, especially in the post—pandemic recovery, we can’t accept lowered safety nuclear standards.
we have to call on the belarusian authorities to have more transparency and respect for international nuclear and environmental safety standards.
this tool is also about justice, carbon justice.
we need to manage the climate crisis and take care of our own survival.
we need to radically reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but not all countries are doing enough.
we needed a carbon justice tool yesterday.
the current system of free allocation of emissions needs to be fundamentally changed, as the european court of auditors has also stated.
but some big polluters would like to have it all, from free emissions to a carbon tax on imports.
at the same time, they must be fair to developing countries, which are the most affected by the climate crisis.
we certainly need them to finance climate action, to finance renewal as our own resources, but we also need to use them to address the climate crisis in developing countries.
because like women, the climate needs equality and justice.
and the time for that discussion is now, because we need to prepare now so that when we beat the pandemic, we're ready and we don't waste a second building the future.
in addition to the variations in the economic situation - health today, of course, public debt ten years ago - the eurobarometer gives us a very clear picture of the issues that continue to worry our fellow citizens the most and that require our response: economic issues and unemployment, in particular climate change, migration, terrorism.
we can't waste any more time.
an unprecedented investment to come out of this crisis together: more sustainable, more digital, fairer and more resilient.
the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated challenges that were already present before for media and journalists, such as the sharp decline in revenues and the numerous transformations brought about by the new digital environment.
the european democracy action plan, the eu media and audiovisual action plan and the digital services act, recently tabled by the commission, are important steps forward and set out actions to strengthen europe’s media ecosystem.
in slovenia, continuous attempts to undermine the sustainable funding and the independence of the national press agency and frequent verbal attacks against journalists are also a cause of serious concern.
this is essential for the sustainability of the media sector, as i mentioned earlier.
we will play our role, but governments also need to fulfil their obligations to ensure that media freedom is safeguarded and to enable a healthy environment for media pluralism.
it adds to a climate of hatred, and we should speak out.
the political atmosphere and public environment in which journalists work matter.
in order to be able to achieve these scientific developments and to be able to find potential efficiency gains in our everyday lives, for instance in the field of energy efficiency, data needs to be shared and it needs to be accessible for those that need to process it.
the country demonstrated continuity in its dedicated commitment to the european path and understanding of the need to implement stable and inclusive democratic reforms, to stand for democracy and the rule of law in order to reinforce the climate of mutual trust.
having said that i hope that both countries – north macedonia and bulgaria – will resume the constructive dialogue on the pending bilateral issues in order to achieve sustainable results.
with regard to albania, constructive political dialogue and cooperation in parliament between the government and the opposition is essential for progress and the sustainability of the reforms.
even after the electoral reform, the political environment remains strongly paralysed and we stress the importance of further strengthening the political dialogue within the country.
the stabilisation and association agreement offers kosovo an opportunity for sustainable progress and rapprochement with the european union, in line with the european perspective on the region.
in the case of albania, its democracy is in dire need of consolidation and stability and the country needs to move beyond the climate of constant political conflict and division that we’ve seen in recent years.
so today, step by step – although it’s taking too long – the work of daphne caruana galizia has been vindicated in malta and, as has been said, her family is entitled to justice and the full truth behind the murder, but also all journalists in europe are entitled to a safe and free environment to pursue their hugely important work.
our own european environmental agency very clearly says that: ‘the absence of suitable eu soil legislation contributes to the soil degradation within europe.
(…) the lack of a comprehensive and coherent soil policy framework for protecting europe’s land and soil resources is the key gap that reduces the effectiveness of the existing incentives and measures’ and limits the ability to achieve our goals including the european green deal and climate neutrality.
and due to that, we are failing to meet our international obligations, for example with the sustainable development goals.
we hear a lot about chemicals and about biodiversity, but i want to point out one particular problem with the soil and that is that we are losing carbon from the soil.
we are losing carbon and adding to greenhouse gas emissions where soil could be an amazing carbon sink, a natural carbon sink, just when we do things right and change our agricultural policies.
so i would really like to ask the council if, in the context of the objectives of the eu on climate change and biodiversity, does the council overall support a common eu legal framework for soil protection at eu level and commit to prevent further degradation and to treating soil as a common resource and an ecosystem?
will the commission propose new legislation on soil protection and its sustainable use?
it lacks several important areas of cooperation, but ensures at least a standard level of social and environmental rights.
i’m glad that we managed to include targets on climate spending and to address biodiversity.
thirdly, the only sustainable way to pull children out of poverty is by helping their parents.
this programme closely links to the european data strategy and, with the governance act, the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) is currently working on the framework of how to enable european datashare, bringing data out of the silos for smes and the public sector so as to innovate and benefit from the data economy.
the european data strategy builds on the data spaces that help and link ecosystem and environment to help intensify data sharing, help interoperability and ensure a level playing field.
written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the programme for environment and climate action (life) and repealing regulation (eu) no 1293/2013 (06077/1/2020 c9-0110/2021 2018/0209cod)) (rapporteur: nils torvalds) (a9-0130/2021).
the life programme is the only eu fund specifically dedicated to the environment and climate.
the life programme aims to finance projects dealing with nature, biodiversity, environmental policy, information and communication, you name it and there it is.
from this year onwards, the energy efficiency and renewable energy project will also be available and able to be financed under life.
all citizens can therefore be involved in this work for the environment and our common climate goals.
i would like to draw attention to my predecessor as coordinator of the committee on the environment, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy.
launched in 1992, life has become a solid brand, with more than 5 000 projects now contributing across all member states to the development and implementation of eu policies for environment and climate.
it will contribute to the european green deal and in particular to the biodiversity strategy to 2030, the zero pollution ambition for a toxic-free environment, the circular economy action plan and net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the life programme is also part of the eu long-term budget and recovery plans which committed to spending 30% on climate action: a budget that will be the driver of sustainability.
over the next programing period, eur 3.5 billion are foreseen for environmental activities and 1.9 billion for climate action – which means eur 2 billion more than during the previous programing period, and it now also includes a clean energy sub-programme, which will increase capacity-building and reinforce the overall coherence of the programme.
each life project means concrete action on the ground for more biodiversity, more synchroneity, less pollution, more climate action and for cleaner energy.
more recently, its focus on the environment and climate protection has been extended to the clean energy transition.
the deaf-mute is a species that has been exterminated in many places in slovakia by extensive forestry practices, which are still considered sustainable forest management.
it would be helpful if other publicly funded sectoral policies took note of the fact that we are facing a climate crisis and a drastic loss of biodiversity and started to make a consistent contribution to improving this situation.
life is a flagship programme for the environment.
it is the only tiny part of our budget that is purely aimed at protecting biodiversity, climate and the transformation to the circular economy.
as beautiful as the life programme is, it’s only a small part of the mff, and it’s clearly not enough to meet the commitment of spending 10% of the budget on biodiversity.
that is why we need to ensure that, on the other part of the mff, we deliver on biodiversity, and also on other climate objectives, and of course deliver on the transition to the circular economy.
we need to increase the share of renewables and invest our efforts in energy storage.
renewable hydrogen, despite not yet being competitive, can play a vital role in eu decarbonisation.
we voted for a clear commitment to phase out fossil fuels and it’s clear that green hydrogen has to be one of our priorities when investing in future clean energy.
as member states are not in the same starting position, low—carbon hydrogen can also play a bridging role in their decarbonisation.
the repurposing of existing gas pipelines for the transport and storage of hydrogen can be a relevant option, at least in certain energy-intensive sectors.
green and digital transition will require huge investments and those shouldn’t only support a climate—neutral economy, but need to strengthen energy security, prevent energy poverty and secure the jobs of millions of european citizens, especially in the upcoming post—pandemic times.
by approving the just transition fund, we are finally giving a social dimension to our transition to a greener economy and the fight against climate change, as we cannot leave anyone behind in this challenging transformation, but financial support must also be given to the people and regions most affected by the negative consequences of the transformation.
the final adoption of the necessary legislation is a great satisfaction for me, having worked on it as a shadow rapporteur in the committee on energy and industry.
those should be our priorities on the pathway to reaching our climate and energy targets in our efforts to enable europe to remain a competitive power in this global world.
industry contributes to more than 20% of eu economy and our goal should be to invest in environmentally sustainable activities and innovative start-ups, which also contribute to the twin transition.
more than 35 million jobs are directly affected and we must ensure that the green and digital transition is fair, socially just and ensure creation of sustainable jobs and provide adequate support for our workers.
the aarhus convention links government accountability and environmental protection and thus goes to the heart of the relationship between people and governments.
access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters are more important than ever.
the amendments tabled today by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety are very ambitious.
across the eu, environmental non-governmental organisations (ngos) play a vital advocacy role, and as commissioner, i witness very directly the key role that ngos play every day when it comes to monitoring the good implementation of eu environmental law.
acts on the eu institutions would be opened up for review under many policy areas, including the environment, transport infrastructure and major energy projects.
taken together with the priority actions outlined in the commission communication on access to justice in environmental matters, we are confident that these proposed changes by the commission, as long as they respect the features of the eu legal order, would be the best way to comply fully and effectively with the requirements of the aarhus convention.
i understand that environmental protection and, say, public access to the environment and the ability of the non-profit sector to intervene in administrative and other processes is a sensitive political issue.
the european parliament's environment committee has just adopted the new climate protection law.
we've decided that by 2030, we're going to cut 55 percent of co2 and other greenhouse gases -- and that's by 2030, which is nine years from now, more than we've done in the last 30 years.
if the planning for these projects, which we need to do to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gases, takes too long, then we will not reach the targets.
too many lawsuits are delaying necessary climate protection projects.
not only large companies, but also citizens, ngos and indigenous peoples must be given the opportunity to make their voices heard on environmental and climate issues in the eu.
one example is the legal process that sami youth in sweden and families around europe have brought because they were directly affected by climate change.
heatwaves, droughts or forest fires hit them directly, and they challenged previous eu climate targets.
this proposal also provides individuals directly affected by environmental problems with access to justice and the opportunity to put pressure on the eu institutions.
with the eu now world leader in environmental and climate issues, not least in terms of the green deal and the eu climate law, we must show that we ourselves live up to the international convention concerning the right to review environmental legislation.
as the eu is now reshaping its environmental and climate policy in a more ambitious direction, the institutions must also follow suit.
we cannot then continue to do what is directly contrary to our environmental laws, whether in the environmental field or not.
secondly, i would like to thank all my colleagues who supported full compliance with our international obligations, and in particular the rapporteur for his good work in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi).
the commission’s decisions on environmental matters, including on state aid, have to be challengeable before the eu courts if they are not in line with eu legislation – and not only because some international body tells us that, but because our accountability to citizens and our responsibility to prevent environmental damage is there.
we have to support creating sustainable jobs, reskilling and upskilling of workers and reducing social inequalities.
international trade in its current form also contributes significantly to the loss of biodiversity.
i therefore welcome the commission's recognition of this in its very ambitious biodiversity strategy.
the aim must be to change the international trading system in a way that is consistent with the interests of biodiversity.
this means, for example, that trade in products that are proven to be harmful to biodiversity must be stopped.
the recognition of the importance of biodiversity conservation must be followed by consistent action.
this parliament has the opportunity tomorrow to take a first step by adopting the biodiversity report, but without diluting it.
it is also a fact that our land use needs to be better aligned with environmental and species protection.
this must be the starting point of the european biodiversity strategy.
the report of the environment committee unfortunately sounds more like we were trying to turn nature into a natural history museum.
first, management and biodiversity are not mutually exclusive - on the contrary.
secondly, land use is not only the basis of life in rural areas, but also makes an important contribution to climate protection through the production of food, materials and energy.
biodiversity is the foundation of our life.
everything that lives on this planet is ultimately a result of biodiversity and is a result of nature's ability to adapt and change.
but agriculture - we should never forget this - is also a source of biodiversity; the common agricultural policy is also about supporting agriculture, which is also the source of biodiversity.
what i find very surprising is that the commission's communication on biodiversity does not mention the problem of large predators.
with the eu biodiversity strategy, we are actually setting out an ambitious plan for how to restore nature in europe.
we must ensure responsible and sustainable access to protected natural areas, as we have seen for example in the municipality of kerteminde at the urup dam.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
scientists warn that at the current rate of destruction and climate crisis, between a third and a half of all species will face extinction by the end of the century.
we should not worry, because there are forestry experts who for centuries protect forest ecosystems and their biodiversity, miraculously integrating conflicting activities.
in reality, however, we are losing forest biodiversity.
dear colleagues, please vote in favour of the original paragraphs of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) report for the sake of forests and biodiversity.
first, we need more fair, sustainable jobs that provide security and preserve dignity.
today, we are working in several committees of this parliament on legislative changes to heal our digital environment so that what is not allowed offline is not allowed online.
with the right policy set-up and support for our farmers, it is sustainable and creates full-time jobs in the region.
cell-free, organic and sustainable agriculture is a system that we must promote as a matter of priority for the sake of animal health, human health and complementarity with the planet.
if science is the basis for policy decisions, the european union has a chance to be an inspiration for the whole world in the field of livestock farming and welfare, just as it is in the field of climate and biodiversity.
the adoption of the rules of operation of the three eu funds, which are also a major investment asset for slovakia, will allow everyone to focus even more on combating climate change, but also on creating new jobs and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which is very important especially at the time of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.
the parallelism between the judiciary and the media, the waste of millions of taxpayers' money, the incitement against minorities - what more do you need to finally take responsibility for our democratic europe?
- the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97).
the specificities of certain countries that are able or unable to draw on renewable energy sources need to be considered.
without achieving a 52.8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, it is conceivable, and i would be happy if it could be achieved, but it will probably be a problem.
the problem will be with resources and energy.
i have to say, madam president, no, this climate change bill is not why fridays for future took to the streets.
the law, watered down and weakened by the member states, is nowhere near the paris climate targets.
this is not about playing with numbers, demanding a 65 percent reduction in co2 emissions by 2030. the eu is the world's third largest co2 emitter and to set itself a relaxed 52.8% reduction target is a slap in the face for all the countries already suffering from climate change.
this climate protection law is not protecting the climate it's a fraudulent package.
madam president, madam minister, vice-president timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking a historic step which commits the european union, and ultimately our countries, to the collective target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, with a reference year of 1990. it is indeed, vice-president timmermans, the law of laws and the european union is leading by example in the world.
we must incentivise businesses to green their energy consumption and production by supporting research, innovation and the adoption of all available technologies that facilitate the reduction of carbon footprint, such as ccs/ccu.
we must be bold and lead the world again, moving quickly with legislation that provides incentives for drastic methane reduction, energy, agriculture and waste management, as well as upgrading legislation on sustainable chemicals, encouraging industry without undermining its competitiveness.
that’s why the summer package will be so important to create a fair business environment, to ensure a just transition, speed up innovation, and at the end i hope we can beat the target.
but we also need to ensure that we don’t sacrifice biodiversity in the name of protecting the climate, because without nature, we cannot live – just as much as without climate.
we need to get the accounting right in the rules here so we don’t create mystery numbers, but motivate farmers and foresters to farm carbon, protect biodiversity as well as soil.
equally important will be the gas package in the winter, and methane especially, including putting the price on the methane emissions for the link to important gas and oil.
i think this is an opportunity to create fair, innovative, green and sustainable economies.
madam president, the climate bill that i welcome and that i will be voting for today is the framework for our climate ambitions.
we have agreed to a 55% reduction in emissions, and i am glad that this is a much higher target than the one the eu was demanding two years ago.
climate change is extremely real.
we already know the vulnerable regions that climate change is fundamentally destabilizing: the sahel, syria, the mediterranean, the arctic.
we have to achieve carbon neutrality, we have to stabilize the climate.
we need to ensure an efficient transition to renewable energy.
i'm optimistic, i believe that the actions that are being taken will bring real change, and our shared goal will not only be achieved, but surpassed in 2030. if our economy, industry, economy and society as a whole accept the critical need for a stable environment, we will move forward and find a way to operate in a way that is compatible with the planet, both in europe and globally.
mr president, the commission's plan also calls for the european investment bank to contribute an additional 350 billion in new investments to climate objectives every year until 2030. however, green labelling is not enough to ensure a recovery.
recovery requires that investments are productive, deliver long-term economic growth and deliver effectively on climate objectives.
the union's 2030 targets may end up being worthless, as may the forgotten ambition to become the world's most competitive economy by 2010, with unnecessarily limited economic growth and unnecessarily expensive climate targets.
of the more than 30 billion envelopes, most will go to transport, less to energy and some to digitisation, i.e.
the slovak government and the competent actors in slovakia must therefore ensure that the best possible quality of transport and energy interconnection projects with neighbouring countries is put forward, whether it is motorways or electricity interconnectors linking slovakia with poland, hungary or the czech republic.
mr president, since the 1970s the european union has been setting environmental policy guidelines through environmental action programmes.
these programmes have integrated positive considerations into key areas of environmental policy, such as biodiversity, climate or soils, but also trade policy or access to justice, among others.
this is exemplified by the perverse and ineffective market approaches that enshrine the right to pollute, such as emissions trading.
a serious approach to environmental problems requires a society that is oriented towards the satisfaction of human needs rather than profit.
we must act decisively and wisely to protect our environment.
the first priority of the new environment action programme is rightly the objective of achieving climate neutrality in the european union.
we are the first generation to suffer the consequences of climate change.
we are the last generation that can stop climate change in a sustainable way, because there are dangerous points, tipping points in the climate system.
and if we don't do that now, then our children and grandchildren are not likely to be able to control climate change.
we want the emissions trading system to be at the heart of european climate policy.
the eu as a region is a world leader in policies to protect our nature and our environment.
it is an important tradition that since the 1970s we have had environmental action programmes as guiding principles for environmental policy.
we also need to meet the un's sustainable development goals.
today, we are taking the fight for an end date for the use of taxpayer funds for fossil subsidies as early as 2025. today we take a big step towards the just transition to the sustainable welfare economy.
and i will address what concerns me the most: i will address climate change.
with 73% of fossil energy in europe’s energy system, this environmental action programme that we have in front of us today gives us a unique chance to end the fossil subsidies and end a fossil era.
no more words can save us now – we need climate action.
mr president, the ambitious green deal needs an ambitious environmental action programme, because indeed we have a problem.
and i would like to also emphasise that even here in the environmental action programme, in a legislative text, the parliament calls for a binding legal framework for soils because it’s one of the elements that is missing, and i think this is something which we need for biodiversity, the climate, hazardous chemicals, for supporting our farmers.
governments should identify concrete consolidation measures today that will increase the sustainability of public finances in the long term.
however, challenges of the sector cannot be a reason not to reach our energy and climate targets.
remember that the construction sector accounts for one third of eu waste.
we must accelerate the transition of the sector towards a greener, sustainable model, as greater material efficiency could save up to 80% of the emissions produced.
we should not forget also about the 18 million jobs in the eu that are linked to the construction sector, and to minimise negative side effects of the transition by creating other sustainable jobs and reskilling for those who will be affected.
today, the eu has major challenges to face: infectious diseases, the fight against cancer and ensuring a clean and safe environment.
the ipcc report is a reminder that we have waited far too long and that we still have sectors where emissions are increasing.
i've said it before, and i'll say it again: the eu emissions trading system is europe's most important tool for reducing emissions.
but i know there are people in this room who say they want the best for the climate, but at the same time they say they want to delay the timetable, who at the same time say it's going to be too expensive, who at the same time say it's going to be too risky, and who at the same time say that emissions reductions should be done somewhere else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest ipcc report from last august makes it very clear that to stop global warming we must stop emitting carbon urgently.
mr president, mr vice-president, one of the key elements of the 'fit for 55' package is undoubtedly the carbon adjustment mechanism at our borders.
this centrepiece of our climate policy has a very noble purpose, which i obviously support: exporting our climate ambitions while maintaining the competitiveness of our industries.
it will be our domestic companies that will bear the additional administrative burden of the cbam, and it will be our manufacturing companies that will have to pay the co2 price of all those who produce with a lower or non-existent carbon price.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fit for 55 package is the key instrument for achieving the new co2 reduction target by 2030. parliament had called for a 60% reduction, but we are ready to roll up our sleeves to help meet the main challenge of our century, which is to accompany the recovery towards a new model of sustainable development with zero emissions.
you can never have environmental sustainability without social sustainability.
that is why we think that great attention should be paid to the social impact and costs of extending the ets system to public transport and housing and why we believe that the new social climate fund is going in the right direction, accompanying the transition with equity so that it is for everyone.
i therefore think it is very good that there is an international working group of climate scientists advising us.
clearly, climate change is man-made and poses a major threat to humans, animals and the environment.
the last report states that the greenhouse gas methane dissolves in the atmosphere after 12 years.
with a constant emission of methane, the atmospheric layer of methane does not thicken or thin.
the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) also states that the impact of constant methane emissions on climate change is overestimated by three to four times.
my question to the commission is this: what impact does this have on climate legislation for agriculture, for example?
with climate change, we face a far greater danger.
the current status quo is not enough for europe to reach climate neutrality by 2050. if we want to achieve what we pledged, we need to go further.
with this proposal the eu addresses climate change in several sectors.
previous interventions focused mainly on energy production and industry.
we need a better connection between the climate agenda and research and development.
fit for 55 is comprehensive when it comes to regulation, standards, taxation and carbon pricing, but it falls short when it comes to the development of clean, affordable technologies.
mr president, mr commissioner, every day we read, we see, new news about the present effects of climate change: floods this summer, fires, unusual weather effects, which remind us of the need to act and to act now.
i think the package that the commission has put forward is very well-targeted and we need to somehow demonstrate to the public that these adverse effects of climate change - which are not something in the future, not something that is going to happen in an indeterminate future, but are already happening - have a response in the package.
and for that transition to be just, we also need to strengthen the social fund for climate change.
when will he have to pay for the pollution of the ships, and how much will it really cost?
there are many unknowns in climate policy, as it is now.
we'll change that when we succeed in landing an ambitious climate package.
we risk missing out on the green investments we could have made, and worst of all, we risk not addressing the climate challenge in time.
firstly, climate change is not a zero-sum game.
but of course energy must remain affordable, firstly for our citizens.
we need to focus on this: that innovative solutions, innovative new technologies come to market, that we can use to show other regions of the world that we can tackle climate change.
president, the 'ready for 55' package is the first real concrete proposal that has come out of the green deal and the climate act.
that is why the extensions relating to the ets, the maritime story and, of course, the carbon limit correction mechanism are crucial.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, the climate crisis is turning into a climate catastrophe.
slovakia and europe are facing rising energy prices, and this is again putting the most vulnerable and poorest at risk.
for its growing dependence on climate-damaging fossil fuels and its imports from dictatorial regimes like putin's russia.
by optimizing consumption, efficiency and local green energy, because these are not only addressing the climate crisis, but also our energy and strategic dependence on eastern dictators and the fluctuations in fossil fuel prices in world markets.
and they're going to help people who are at risk of energy poverty.
the money for emissions is supposed to go to two things: to support green innovation and solutions, and to go back to people as a carbon dividend.
the package of proposals, known as fit for 55, is a good kick-off from the european commission to the very difficult negotiations that now await us in the european parliament and among member states to agree effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve our climate goals.
many question whether it is a suitable tool to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and whether its consequences will not cause even worse social unrest than the recent yellow vest movement in france.
without well-thought-out and timely accompanying measures, such measures will have a negative impact on the energy bills paid by citizens as well as on the fuel prices of their cars.
i am afraid that the climate social fund and especially its budget in the form proposed will not be sufficient on its own to offset these social consequences.
let us not forget that we are already facing a significant increase in energy prices, albeit for other reasons.
apart from damaging european companies, apart from driving up energy prices, they have solved absolutely nothing.
energy security, strengthening our defense capabilities and targeted sanctions against putin's entourage and his collaborators are key.
mr president, it’s nothing new if we say that our relations with russia are at a very low point, in short: energy over-dependence, divergent policies of the member states’, direct interference in political processes and russia’s very active role in disinformation campaigns.
and we also welcome that the green deal of the commission has left its footprint in this ipa iii, literally amounting to up to 27% of all the funds going to climate and biodiversity and environmental topics.
and if you know the region, if you know how many people suffer from air pollution in the region, if you know how the wild waste deposits look like, the lack of wastewater treatment that is still pouring the wastewater into the rivers, you see an urgent need for these kind of investments.
it is a political instrument which binds our partners in the region to put fundamentals first, and to work diligently on rule of law reforms and sound and sustainable public investment.
our recovery plan commits member states to invest in digital infrastructure and sustainability.
we must seize this opportunity to develop new economic models that will create new and more sustainable jobs.
president von der leyen spoke about various ambitions that the eu should pursue, from healthcare to military capacity, from climate change to social policy.
the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated numerous pre-existing challenges for media and journalists, such as the sharp decline in revenues and the various transformations brought by the digital environment.
the 2021 rule-of-law report found several aspects of concern regarding media freedom and pluralism, be it as regards the media market, the role of national authorities, as well as the environment for journalists’ work and their safety.
more generally, when it comes to the media environment, there should be no political pressure, and journalists should have the right conditions to do their job.
– mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner schmit, i don’t know where you get all the energy actually at this time, you know.
therefore, my final question to the commission today would be, how will you work with the member states to improve eu actions to enhance the social resilience and sustainability of the recovery of the european economies and our better response to the future crises?
the role of media literacy and a diverse media ecosystem is absolutely essential.
the energy needs of the sun, the wind, the water, because that is life for europe, human life.
but the current generation, which is often living in energy poverty as a result of rising energy prices, living as a vulnerable consumer, also needs to be addressed and addressed.
i welcome the commission's decision, or plan, to have a set of instruments on 13 october to force national governments to take action to combat rising energy prices.
rising energy prices are actually creating poverty, they're creating consumer vulnerability.
you can artificially lower the price of energy for everyone, but that means that taxpayers' money will not only support the poor, but also the rich.
and it doesn't matter whether the energy is produced from dirty fossil fuels or clean, green fuels.
residents and businesses are now held hostage in cities that have given in to the gas lobby and failed to make the transition to local renewable resources.
instead of making loud speeches and looking for enemies, smart governments should act quickly and invest massively in energy conservation, building renovation, green energy, to develop local resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering a very serious energy crisis: the price of natural gas has increased sevenfold since the beginning of the year, electricity in france has increased by 57% and this is only the beginning.
the first is that the european union, through green ideology, is sabotaging nuclear energy, which is clean, totally decarbonised, but excluded from the list of virtuous energies that can be the subject of european funding.
it wants to replace it with renewable and intermittent energy.
and second, in 2021, the production of alternative energy, by wind turbines and dams, was catastrophic due to climatic circumstances.
it is the consumer who, after having suffered all the energy increases since the beginning of the year, will suffer the impact of the freeze decided from october to april in france, just after the presidential election, as if by chance.
there is a miracle solution: european energy independence through nuclear energy, particularly french, and, because we are also concerned about the environment, through investment in research and clean technologies of the future, such as nuclear fusion or thorium.
a moratorium on emissions trading that enriches various dealers, the development of nuclear energy and the madness green deal has to be stopped.
i have to say, madam president, when we talk about energy prices, about 34 million people in the eu having little or no heating, no hot water, getting sick, we are talking about a central social issue that we have to solve.
what we finally need is the right of every human being to energy.
we need access to energy as a public good.
we need a real reform of the european electricity market and a social and climate-friendly energy taxation.
and what is more, natural gas is not preventing the rise in energy prices, but only the massive expansion of renewables.
madam president, energy prices are constantly rising, for natural gas, for fuels in general and for electricity in particular.
the colossal increase in electricity prices has effects on households and businesses, has effects on environmental objectives and has effects on inflation.
and what has the portuguese government done to alleviate, mitigate, reduce the energy bill of the portuguese?
is the government, is prime minister costa willing to reduce these taxes to alleviate the energy bill?
mr president, in various parts of europe the rise in energy prices has been dramatically rapid, and it is not even winter yet.
we see that countries that already have low emissions in the energy sector and diverse zero-emission electricity generation have now managed to survive with the least price competition.
in this situation, however, where the price of emission allowances has also risen to a higher level than before, we cannot change course, because it is precisely the price of electricity emissions trading that is leading us away from dependence.
we can also use technology to promote energy efficiency.
intelligent control systems can easily cut 20 percent of the energy required.
it must also be used wisely to eliminate energy poverty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the devastating increase in the energy bill is caused by the increase in the price of gas, by our delayed ecological transition, by the lack of investment in renewables and energy efficiency.
while gas prices have skyrocketed, the cost of generating electricity from renewable sources has remained stable and low.
investing in new gas infrastructure and thinking that we are dependent on actors outside the european union, such as russia, is nothing but economic, environmental, social and geopolitical suicide.
increased investment in energy efficiency to reduce consumption and renewable energy, involving citizens in production, is the only way to lower prices and prevent future such situations.
i expect the commission to take the necessary short-term measures to deal with the emergency, measures which must focus on consumers, households, artisans and small and mediumsized enterprises, who are vulnerable and increasingly exposed to the concept of energy poverty, to choose between heating or eating.
many were frozen in unheated homes because they could no longer afford the energy bills.
the price of electricity continues to rise astronomically, and the current energy crisis is, to put it bluntly, largely political.
this crisis is the result of the disastrous energy policies of the eu and national governments.
in the course of the so-called energy transition, prices are artificially increased with full intention for climate protection purposes!
i would like to make a proposal to you, colleagues in this temperate house: let us be exemplary and show solidarity in protecting the climate this winter.
well, fellow greens and climate change bureaucrats, how about this?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in energy prices affects a large part of the population, including the middle class.
however, these must not be seen as a setback in the fight against climate change.
to the european union: an ambitious programme to improve energy efficiency through the use of new technologies and new financing models for the sector.
the cost of energy in my country is a factor blocking the development and competitiveness of companies and industries, it is a burden for households with very high levels of energy poverty.
madam president, after the unprecedented hike in energy prices, at least in some member states, people will have to choose between heating and eating.
we have to do our utmost in order to avoid the deepening of energy poverty, which could soon affect up to 80 million people in europe.
excuse me, but it is not putin’s fault that we are facing this hike in energy prices.
first, we should defend people from energy poverty and keep our industry competitive.
all member states received a massive income from the emissions trading system to their budgets, so allow them to send a part of these financial resources back to consumers.
this could help millions of people to pay financial bills – not only for energy consumption, but for all other goods as well.
having said that, it’s impossible that we still rely on the production of coal plants, which is the most dirty energy resource of electricity.
third, we need to strengthen our energy security.
madam president, slovakia is one of the countries with a serious problem of energy poverty.
the real solution is energy efficiency and green energy.
more efficient buildings mean not only lower energy bills, but also jobs, cleaner air and climate protection.
green energy also means energy independence from regimes like putin's.
the real solution is the climate dividend.
the money for the emissions allowances should go to the people, not the polluters.
yes, it should put us on a path to meet our ambitious climate goals and ambitious digital goals.
madam president, madam commissioner, we should be working seriously and methodically to combat climate change and protect our natural resources.
finally, we need to refocus our trade policy, because without this, it is clear that the climate gains of our policies will be minimal.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of the climate crisis, the rapid loss of biodiversity, food insecurity, which affects more than 800 million people worldwide, all point to the imminence of a point of no return.
madam president, our group has always supported an ambitious transition towards a sustainable food system that will not only respect planetary boundaries, but also ensure farmers’ livelihoods and food on our tables.
ideally, as much of the food we eat should be produced at home, or at least within the eu, in the most environmentally and climate-friendly way possible.
without real changes in the way food is produced, nature and the climate will suffer more and more.
the reduced production in the eu would certainly be replaced by imports of less organic food from third countries, which would not only worsen the eu's trade balance but also jeopardise our objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural activity.
madam president, in the context of today's debate, i expect the european union to recognise the right to a healthy environment.
environmental protection is still not successfully integrated into european union policies.
the climate crisis is getting serious.
in politics, we accept as a tax on progress activities that damage the environment and threaten our own survival and prosperity.
we must guarantee the right of all citizens to a favourable, healthy, diverse and stable environment, both for the present and for future generations.
– madam president, methane is a powerful greenhouse gas, warming the planet 80 times as much as carbon dioxide over a 20-year period before degrading to co2.
we should provide a fair, comprehensive and clear legislative framework, setting binding measures and methane reduction targets covering all sectors, leading to a significant reduction of methane emissions in the eu by 2030. ahead of cop26, a challenge is arising.
by concluding a global agreement on reducing methane emissions, we can ensure a new era of fast-track reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
after the announcement by the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, and the us president, joe biden, of the global methane pledge – an initiative to reduce global methane emissions to be launched at the un climate conference in glasgow in november – we have to start working intensively in order to prepare the legislative framework as soon as possible, and to engage all relevant stakeholders.
more than half of global methane emissions stem from human activities in three sectors: energy, waste and agriculture.
in this framework, it is important to proceed with an ambitious revision of our environmental legislation.
the upcoming methane regulatory measures should strive to achieve significant emissions reductions, swiftly and as cost-effectively as possible, and provide incentives and support to companies to achieve performance standards in an optimal manner, while fully respecting the ‘polluter pays’ principle.
in the energy sector, inputs account for over four-fifths of the oil and gas consumed in the eu, and most methane emissions associated with oil and gas are occurring outside eu borders.
that’s why we must explore regulatory tools on fossil energy inputs, develop methods with importing and partner countries to align our efforts, and secure a un-based pathway on methane as soon as possible.
a mandatory mrv (measurement, reporting and verification) system would improve member states’ reporting to the un framework convention on climate change, and a strong leak and detection repair system is also a critical element for our strategy.
we also have to support the establishment of an independent international methane emissions observatory, in partnership with the united nations developmental programme and the climate and clean energy coalition under the international energy agency (iea).
at the same time, we need to ensure a just transition for sectors in which methane emissions reductions may have socio-economic impacts, especially for agriculture.
in the waste sector, we should support member states and regions to stabilise biodegradable waste prior to disposal, increase its use to produce climate neutral, secure and bio-based materials and chemicals, and divert this waste towards bio-gas production.
we must provide specific incentives suited to each member state’s conditions to ensure separate collection of bio-waste, to the maximum possible extent, including by encouraging public private sector cooperation.
we have managed to finalise a very balanced report and to send the right message to our citizens: by reducing methane now, we will prevent nearly 0.3 degrees celsius of warming by 2045. the immediate implementation of methane reduction measures for human sources of methane could reduce methane emissions by as much as 45% by 2030. as the president of the commission declared, on the road to cop26, we will reach out to global partners to bring as many as possible on board for tackling methane emissions with the eu green deal and the eu methane strategy, we are ready to lead the way.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate ms spyraki on the very good, very balanced, report and for the good cooperation with the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
i also congratulate commissioner kadri simson on the good new strategy to reduce methane emissions.
we need to strengthen the business case for capturing methane emissions.
the main points for itre: highlighting the role of gas in energy transition and also highlighting the work done so far by the gas industry; leak detection and repair (ldar) and measurement, reporting and verification (mrv) as the key priorities to ensure better understanding of methane emissions to better data and more adequate reduction of emissions; compulsory mrv and ldar framework that also includes imports in order to have an equal playing field for the industry.
we call for stronger measures and incentives for methane emissions in coalmines in a specific programme to address methane emissions from abandoned and closed coalmines.
methane has accounted for roughly 30% of global warming since pre—industrial times and is proliferating faster than at any other time since record—keeping began in the 80s.
the most rapid and cost effective methane emissions savings can be achieved in the energy sector.
this is why we are preparing a legislative proposal to reduce methane emissions in the energy sector for adoption in december this year.
it will rest on the following key pillars: improve the accuracy of information on the exact amounts and main sources of methane emissions to allow for more effective and more targeted methane abatement measures, and achieve immediate emission reductions across the energy supply chain by intervening on those fronts where action is possible.
the eu is a global fossil fuel importer and must use this leverage to foster methane emissions commitments among its suppliers.
i also want to underline that, alongside this proposal, we have been working with our energy partners and other key fossil importing countries to tackle methane emissions globally.
thanks to eu energy diplomacy and partnership with the united nations environment programme (unep), in october 2020, the independent international methane emissions observatory (imeo) was created.
furthermore, in september 2021, the union and the united states announced the global methane pledge, which represents a political commitment to reduce collectively global methane emissions by 30% by 2030. so far, 36 countries have committed their support, representing one third of total world methane emissions.
the european parliament report also covers environmental legislation.
moreover, the revision of the industrial emissions directive (ied) will look into measures such as methane emissions from relevant sectors – agriculture, industry and energy – whilst ensuring that there is no overlap in regulation.
agriculture also has a significant potential to deliver on methane emissions savings.
in the post—2020 cap, the higher level of flexibility will give member states the possibility to design a specific combination of interventions for reducing emissions from agriculture.
a significant share of global methane emissions in the agriculture sector originates outside of the eu.
the commission and the member states have been very active in various international fora for reducing emissions from agriculture and agri—food systems.
methane is a huge problem: it's the second most important greenhouse gas.
even though it has a shorter lifespan than co2, it has a much higher greenhouse gas potential.
the next ten years, we don't know exactly, but the next ten years will be crucial to avoid dangerous tipping points in the climate system, such as the thawing of the permafrost in siberia.
so too much methane in the next decade can mean very, very much methane for our children and our grandchildren, and then we can't control climate change.
but i am very much in favor of not making this a fight between climate change and agriculture.
they also offer many lowlands, for example through the cultivation of humus or sustainable forestry.
that is why we should not stigmatize them, but work with farmers to reduce methane emissions.
we should prevent leaks in the gas sector and we should finally ensure that no waste ends up in landfills in europe.
climate change is not a national or purely european problem.
the s&d group is calling for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's climate action plan is implemented.
methane is the second largest contributor to climate change after co2, accounting for more than 10% of total greenhouse gas emissions in europe, and contributes to the formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere, a potent air pollutant that causes serious health problems.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs spyraki, and the other honourable members for the work they have done to produce this report, in which we are asking the commission to ensure that the european union's strategy for reducing methane emissions includes the creation of a comprehensive legislative framework on methane emissions, with binding measures in all sectors - energy, recycling, agriculture and livestock in particular - the imposition of import control measures on emissions throughout the value chain - the european union leads the control policies but must impose them on its partners abroad - and the prohibition of practices such as venting and burning, as well as the commitment to the conversion of agricultural and livestock waste into biogas and the involvement of member states by introducing effective and sustainable measures in their national strategic plans, which must be strictly monitored by the commission.
the commission should incorporate these and other measures in this report into its legislative proposal for reducing methane emissions in the energy sector, which it will present in december.
we cannot fail to commit ourselves to making europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, to implementing the european green deal and to contributing to the well-being and health of citizens today and for future generations.
– madam president, we have to do the utmost to limit the global warming to 1.5 degrees.
we got a taste this summer and honestly, i think we are standing on the brink of a climate disaster.
we need to act above all in the energy sector.
we need to ban routine flaring and venting, and we need to act at home and abroad, because not just climate has no boundaries, but most of our footprint is abroad.
i believe the rapporteurs appreciate all too well how difficult it is to propose feasible instruments in such a complicated and sensitive environment as the media sector.
we must work on a more pluralistic political environment at european level, and this resolution suggests a solid way forward.
indeed, it can be said that most strategic raw materials come to europe from countries in asia, africa and latin america that are unable to guarantee that their extraction and processing are carried out in a sustainable manner, respecting environmental standards and human rights.
a compromise solution must therefore be found that protects the rights of communities but also biodiversity, while allowing the union to develop domestic capacities in strategic sectors.
mr. president, there was a vote recently here that europeans should eat more insects instead of meat because meat/livestock is said to produce greenhouse gases that cause global warming.
unfortunately, this agricultural policy is not much better, because there is also a lot of literal ecological nonsense and, in particular, this agricultural policy is unfair in the long term to the central and eastern european countries, which receive several times less support than western european farmers.
eco-schemes, climate targets, biodiversity support, support for small farmers, harmonisation of payments - all these powerful instruments have ultimately remained insufficient and formal, and we have been looking for measurable and binding targets in vain.
unfortunately, we continue to support predominantly intensive agriculture, damaging the climate, the soil and biodiversity.
the foundations of the reform were laid before the european environmental convention and unfortunately the reform has remained largely in this setting.
it completely ignores and fails to refer to key strategies such as the biodiversity strategy and the farm-to-table strategy.
we are living in a climate and biodiversity crisis.
let us not waste this opportunity.
mr president, although the protection of climate and environment should not be subject to political discretion, the approved texts of cop26 are a compromise and reflect the political will of today.
we so far have treated nature as the least important element of our fight to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
we replaced digging for coal by the burning of forests, started to call it a fight against climate change, and rewarded companies for burning wood despite the fact that wood seals more co2 per unit of energy than coal, and despite the very poor shape of our forests.
we have to strictly go the path of energy efficiency through renewables like solar, wind and geothermal, together with forest and wetland protection, to really improve the climate.
unfortunately, it is reported that the eu is proposing to expand the scope of the energy charter treaty and replace fossil fuels by new energy sources such as biomass.
that’s why i hope that this parliament is aware of the damage that the eu has cast upon forests with the renewable energy directive and is ready to review it thoroughly.
europe is responsible for only 8% of greenhouse gas emissions, while our biggest competitors china and the us are much more.
it's not enough for them to announce ambitious goals, but we have to push them through climate diplomacy to put those goals into practice.
we must do everything we can to keep our planet competitive, to avoid deepening energy poverty and the division of people into the privileged and the marginalized.
it can also be a climate social fund, but it needs to be more ambitious, we need to strengthen its financing not only through emission allowances, and we need to broaden its scope.
mr president, the cheapest energy is still the one we save and do not have to produce at all, and therefore our priority must be to increase energy efficiency.
but let us be fair and admit that if the union imports raw materials from third countries whose production does not respect our green norms, or our social standards, we are only exporting emissions and contributing to their increase elsewhere.
of course, renewable sources must be given priority, with cross-border electricity transmission capacities to be strengthened in the future.
the need to strengthen resilience and energy security is all the more urgent as rising energy prices threaten vulnerable households.
while people understand the need for emissions reductions and green reforms, they will only support them if they see social guarantees, and so we need to be more ambitious in ensuring social justice and allocating more money to the climate social fund and paying for activities other than just some training or retraining.
this is just one example of the climate of intimidation and harassment that the opposition has to endure on a daily basis; an example of the schizophrenic use of social networks, encouraging hatred and tension.
i would also like to reiterate the particular importance of cluster 4 in light of the recent political developments in serbia, as this cluster deals with the acquis chapters related to the green agenda, including environmental issues.
it makes societies more efficient, more sustainable and more resilient to crises, while improving the working conditions of workers.
the public is interested in how we can help them deal with the energy price hike, how we can get out of the covid crisis.
we have to address the impacts of climate change, the competitiveness of european farmers.