this report rightly points out that cultural tourism must strike a balance between economic, social, cultural and environmental requirements.
we must promote and support this cultural heritage in a sustainable way with the help of the european union.
the eu must play its part in ensuring global peace and stability in an increasingly unpredictable security environment, especially in our immediate neighbourhood.
for the sustainable well-being of the wider society, and in particular for the safety of our youngest generations.
despite numerous soft law acts (recommendations, guidelines, declarations) at international, regional and eu level, there are companies that are not adhering to this principle in a timely, adequate or even pseudo-social way, while their actions have an impact on (irreversible) environmental degradation and (and consequent) respect for human rights.
i also advocate the effectiveness of these mechanisms (at eu level) directly in the formulation of the proposal for a revision of the aarhus regulation, which aims to improve access to justice in environmental matters and thus to allow timely prevention of environmental damage before it has serious consequences for people.
i believe that the availability and effective functioning of such mechanisms, which aim at the highest possible environmental standards, is a key factor in achieving the ambitious green transition and economic transformation we have outlined in the european green deal.
in past crises, countries and the eu have focused on directly helping the economy, at the expense of people and the environment.
this crisis needs to bring about a shift and start investing in people and the environment, in that order.
we welcome the announcement by prime minister edi rama of the planned establishment of europe's first wild river national park, on the vjosa: 300 kilometres of unimproved river, a jewel for species conservation, a jewel for biodiversity, something that fits into the green deal strategy.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
comprehensive and sustainable peace will necessarily require further efforts to resume a genuine dialogue to end and prevent further violence.
– mr president, india and the eu need to work together to combat the climate crisis and promote human rights and peace.
both the eu and india have a strong motivation to tackle climate change and what we need now is mutual action.
as the world’s largest democracies, we have all the possibilities to build climate diplomacy and promote cutting emissions globally.
however, the eu—27 and india are still the third and fourth largest emitters of co2 emissions worldwide respectively, even though india is currently on track to achieve and go beyond its nationally determined contributions.
the eu and india must both, therefore, do more to tackle climate change with ambitious targets and also by collaborating in technological innovations.
we need to commit to climate neutrality and the paris agreement.
we need shared commitment and cooperation for sustainable peace and security, and we also need joint efforts to integrate women and young people in decision-making, and also strategies on peace and security.
another shared challenge is climate change.
india’s contribution to the paris goals is essential for attaining the ultimate target of carbon neutrality.
as we speak, the eu—india climate change dialogue is taking place.
we also plan to launch an eu—india connectivity partnership which should cover the areas of digital energy, transport and human connectivity, through bilateral cooperation, but also by converging our efforts to better connectivity with third countries and regions.
four areas will be key: global health issues, climate change and sustainable growth, technology, trade and investment, and foreign security and defence.
the eu and india could and should intensify cooperation on digitalisation and climate change.
this would enable us both to achieve ambitious climate goals and foster international cooperation in combating climate change.
mr president, the european union has a historic responsibility to honour its climate commitments and to help others, developing countries, the most vulnerable groups and indigenous peoples.
it can do so by first strengthening financial instruments in relation to its climate action but also in relation to development cooperation, thereby strengthening the resilience and preparedness of vulnerable societies.
personally, i think we should help montenegro negotiate loans with international financial institutions to be able to reprogram its external debt to china, which seriously threatens the sustainability of public finances and has significant political and environmental consequences.
this is why i call on the commission to work with the montenegrin authorities to find a sustainable solution for the looming debt crisis.
the international community recognised the interdependence between human rights and the environment 50 years ago, at the first united nations conference on the environment.
today, we are facing a climate and environmental emergency that makes the debate about the relationship between human rights and the environment all the more relevant, and with it the role of environmentalists.
a healthy environment is a prerequisite for respect for human rights.
the protection of the human rights of those who protect the environment must also be ensured.
on a global scale, on average, more than four environmental activists lose their lives every week.
the latter is also relevant for the eu in the light of the green transition, where civil society is recognised as a defender in the democratic space in the field of environmental affairs.
i am therefore particularly pleased that the resolution proposed by parliament calls on the commission to develop eligibility criteria for eu grants that would also allow smaller environmental ngos to have more inclusive access to funding.
the revision of the aarhus regulation is in fact a transformation of the principle of environmental protection into a part of environmental rights, and in doing so we are following at the level of the european union what is already happening at the level of the national courts, what is most likely to happen before the european court of human rights and what we have after all also written in our charter of fundamental rights.
it is therefore necessary to ensure that this revision is carried out so that this right to environmental protection can be effectively realised and so that the european union can set a credible example both in the international community, that is to say, in international law, and in its relations with its member states.
because many member states, which are in effect abusing the current recovery times or the coming recovery times to avoid introducing those environmental safeguards that already exist, are simply not taking them into account.
in particular, i would like to stress that we are eliminating the possibility of exemptions for certain european union acts, that they are in fact protected from scrutiny, administrative scrutiny, even though they have a negative impact on the environment.
a solution must be found within a broad and inclusive debate and dialogue in the country, having in mind that, for it to be possible and sustainable, all the three peoples must embrace it.
a safe and enabling environment for civil society is essential to ensure the necessary support to the reforms to the european path.
there is so much we need to do across the eu to achieve our climate goals.
but today we are helping municipalities and regions across the eu to set in motion the concrete green projects that will help us towards a climate-neutral society.
the projects that have been postponed because the budget is too tight and the climate has ended up having to wait until next year.
the public sector loan instrument complements the toolbox available under the just transition facility to help regions meet the challenges of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. we just had a debate in this room about climate law.
we have a great common challenge as the european union, which is climate neutrality, and we have very different starting points to achieve this goal.
but if we look at the emissions map, for example, in agriculture - which is the area for which i am responsible in the commission - this map of risks looks very different.
with an average of about two and a half tons per hectare per year in this particular part of central and eastern europe, these emissions are in the range of one and a half to two tons.
europe is indeed facing formidable challenges and as we are still struggling with the pandemic we’re already facing the climate crisis which will be infinitely bigger than the covid crisis.
in slovenia, too, people are being forced into self-employment, even during the pandemic, people are left without health and social insurance, protection at work, an inadequate working environment and opportunities for promotion or training.
it will enable more streamlined, better targeted, more visible and sustainable support to partner countries on their path towards the european union as they face common challenges.
the ipa iii will enhance strategic communication, combat disinformation and contribute to the cross-sectoral objectives of climate, environment, human rights and gender equality.
due to its structure, the ipa iii will also establish more synergy, with a wide range of eu internal policy programmes to maximise impact on key priority sectors such as connectivity, energy, digitalisation, security, migration, research and development and the environment, together with climate action.
ipa iii also offers opportunities for the environmental transformation of a region facing serious environmental challenges.
in this respect, the eu has taken a major step forward with the adoption of a climate law and a comprehensive climate, environment and energy legislative package, which is the pathway to the implementation of the paris agreement.
without the well-being and prosperity of these individuals and groups, we cannot even imagine the transition to a green, digital and economically sustainable future (under any conditions).
recently, europe has seen a substantial increase in energy prices.
the causes are diverse, but include existing and forecast eu actions in the field of green transition and climate goals.
for example, the commission also envisaged, in the so-called 'fit for 55' legislative package of july, the pricing of carbon from road transport and building heating.
the increase in energy prices in these two sectors will primarily affect the most vulnerable sections of the population and increase the risk of energy poverty.
i therefore expect eu decision-makers, and in particular the member states, to ensure that, through legislative proposals such as the social climate fund and other measures, all those most affected are adequately and, above all, timely compensated.
the eu urgently needs an effective and timely response to current and future challenges that are affecting the increased risk of energy poverty.
for a green and digital transition and a more social european union, we need to take into account sustainable welfare and socio-ecological progress.
if we want to keep humanity on this planet, we need to have the same relationship between the economy and the environment.
the key here is the human right to a healthy environment.
however, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is crucial to us, and it must become the unquestioned legal basis for the judgments of the court of justice of the eu when the human right to a healthy environment is violated.
this work is based on the solidarity aspect of european values, and in particular on the fact that this crisis and future crises will have economic, social and environmental consequences.
civil society, especially its humanitarian component, has to do this, and this is a very important issue, and what we have to keep in mind is that it must not become a substitute for the welfare state or the future social-ecological state.
it prevents transparency in business and, in fact, prevents the exploitation of any contribution they could make to both sustainable development and social welfare.
the geneva agreement must be fair and protect the interests of the union and its highly regulated and sustainable fishing fleet.
second, the wto established before the climate change and before the digitalisation needs to be reformed to address these important questions.
it is imperative that wto trade rules help to combat climate change and promote the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
madam president, a question that i’m often asked is how and whether we can balance and reconcile our ambitions around the environment and our trade priorities.
how can we create jobs and prosperity and avoid environmental degradation and loss of biodiversity?
in our resolution, we try to establish a very clear link between the multilateral trading system, on the one hand, and achieving the sustainable development goals.
in particular, we draw attention to sdg 14, target 6, which calls for an end to harmful fishing subsidies, not by 2030, like all of the other sustainable development goals, but by 2020, underlining the high stakes and the urgency.
we have this one opportunity to end a very tough year with some proof that trade and environment can coexist.
i fully share your observation that our policies and instruments must contribute to improving sustainability standards worldwide, including in more sustainable agricultural practices.
finally, we welcome the recent extension of the mandate of the operation eufor althea, which continues to support the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina in maintaining a safe and secure environment for all citizens.
the recently adopted united nations security council regulation renewing the executive mandate of operation eufor althea confirms the eu’s unwavering commitment to support bosnia and herzegovina in maintaining a safe and secure environment.
however, all three communities have to come together and be ready to compromise in order for a sustainable solution to be found, not only for the reform of the electoral law, but also for all other important topics related to the security and social perspective of the citizens of this country.
the energy union is a guarantor of regional stability.
this depends on external (geopolitical context and eu relations with energy superpowers) and internal factors (energy equity).
second, in the context of the green transition, the union must ensure the resilience of european society, so that it is able to withstand the transformation of the economy based on sustainable development and compliance with environmental and climate objectives.
the current situation in the energy market is an excellent 'polygon' for dealing with such phenomena in the further process of the green transformation.
to achieve a green breakthrough and prevent energy poverty, we need not only ambitious strategies but also competent actors within the energy sector who are able to make this transition happen.
this is why i would like to express my concern about the current developments in slovenian politics, where it seems that the transition to a zero-carbon economy can only be a letter on paper due to unwise staffing in state-owned enterprises that are actually capable of implementing the union's climate and environmental commitments and objectives.
the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers adopt a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
it therefore needs to be consolidated and also extended to other issues such as environmental and social sustainability and corporate social responsibility.
in the area of environmental progress, we need an environmentally sustainable transport system, which will actually be easier in the aviation sector than in the case of motor vehicle emissions pricing.
for all these reasons, european policy must provide effective safety nets to prevent the social well-being of people from becoming a collateral damage to common environmental ambitions and, above all, to economic interests.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on forced labour in the linglong factory and environmental protests in serbia (2021/3020 ((rsp)) *.
we observe the potentially devastating impact of these projects on the wider environment and on human rights, as well as the surrounding population, all covered under a veil of non-transparency.
although political leaders may be swayed by grand projects and the promise of jobs and investments, it is impossible to ignore the corrosive impact that chinese investments have on society, governance and on the environment.
the protests of the serbian people over the past weeks show that they care about their country and the environment in which they live.
and all this with the direct support of the ruling structures that equate environmental protesters with fascists, while the hooligans, with police protection, defend the murals of convicted war criminals.
ironically, the very environmental cluster that opened.
this comes days after mass protests in serbia against the very government's legislative proposal that would dangerously harm the environment and harm the health of citizens.
(indistinctly) not directed against serbia, its citizens, but warned the serbian authorities that the violations of fundamental rights that we are witnessing in the case of the linglong factory and environmental protests are completely unacceptable for a country that wants to become a member of the european union.
the violence of hooligans against environmental protesters, coupled with the unusual passivity of the police, points to the fact that the serbian authorities have great difficulty in implementing what was agreed in the negotiations, especially with regard to such a fundamental right as the right to peaceful protest.