we also need to ensure that fishing quotas are based on what ecosystem services can deliver, that they are truly sustainable and nothing else.
it not only provides cleaner seas but also the opportunity for new jobs in often smaller coastal towns and it also contributes to a long-term sustainable rural environment.
only then will trade become a real tool for economic growth, for promoting human rights and for protecting the climate and the environment.
the commission has also promised to develop an improved oversight system for our free trade agreements to give equal weight to breaches of sustainability-related rules as to breaches of market access rules.
we look forward to ambitious proposals that will make it possible to fully uphold the sustainability chapters in our trade agreements.
transitioning to a greener and more sustainable transport sector will be crucial if we in the eu are to achieve our climate goals and be climate neutral by 2050. this is why investment in infrastructure is of the utmost importance, and the transeuropean transport network plays a central role in this.
this is going to be absolutely critical to our ability to be able to reframe all modes of transport, to make all modes of transport sustainable.
it is important that the priority corridors are completed by 2030 and the remaining network by 2050. i now look forward to and expect a progressive and sustainable proposal from the commission later this year.
we want a more socially, ecologically and economically sustainable europe.
housing segregation must be addressed and the climate impact of both construction and housing must be reduced.
we will also link gender equality work to climate policy and the digital agenda.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
when we adopted it, we expected it to be not only an economic win-win for both parties, but also an opportunity to advance sustainable trade, to advance democracy and human rights.
in this action plan for the circular economy, the commission welcomes alternatives to the still dominant productivist agricultural model, which is too resource-intensive, not good for the climate and destroys jobs.
better control of inputs, reduction of dependence on plant proteins, relocation of production, recovery of waste, fight against food waste, more transparent consumer information, in particular through labelling, are all tools that will help finally bring agriculture into the era of the circular economy.
if europe is to meet its climate goals, we need to move away from a 'throw-away' society and towards a more resource-efficient circular economy.
but unfortunately, the greens and the left are constantly making proposals in the name of climate that make it difficult for companies to change, without any climate benefit.
at the same time, it is blocking nuclear power, new technologies such as carbon capture and easier trade in sustainable services.
climate cannot afford political greenwashing from the left, climate needs a circular economy that makes it easier to change.
it's not sustainable.
we also have the chance, the opportunity, to put a much, much higher gear into the work on climate change for the whole of europe.
we need to achieve a fair and equitable recovery now after the pandemic, really focusing on creating sustainable jobs.
we need more renewable energy, new railways, more charging stations.
it really takes a lot of investment to achieve climate goals.
now is the time to make these investments and invest in the solutions needed to create a more sustainable, more equitable and more climate-friendly future in our communities.
i want to see an eu where gender equality and climate go hand in hand, because gender equality is necessary if we are to tackle the climate crisis.
we are facing an urgent global climate crisis and there is no time to lose.
scientists agree that global pricing of carbon dioxide would be the most effective measure to reduce emissions.
many of the eu's trading partners emit carbon dioxide cheaply or even free of charge.
it is therefore high time for the eu to put a price on emissions from imported goods.
we simply have to pay for all emissions wherever they occur.
for a co2 cap mechanism to be possible, it has to be a pure climate action.
at the same time, incentives must be created for producers both inside and outside the eu to change their production and for countries to price their own emissions.
no emissions should be priced twice, nor should any production be protected twice.
it is emissions that we are targeting, we are not doing it to anyone, we want to do it together with other countries.
we also want the proceeds to go to climate action, especially in poor countries.
we need to save the climate and make trade sustainable.
without ever stopping to fight for open international trade and free markets, pricing of imported emissions will be a key to reducing emissions.
we have to make the polluter pay, no matter where the emissions are.
in addition to seizing even more power at the expense of the independence of the member states, the eu now wants to legislate on an import duty on industrial products in the name of the climate.
this is to reduce the global carbon footprint.
in practice, for example, the proposal requires that for each component of a computer, the amount of carbon dioxide required to produce it must be calculated.
and we would ultimately have fewer resources left to deal with the aftermath of the pandemic, the euro crisis, the health crisis, global poverty and the global environmental challenges.
sustainability with respect for people and the environment is the foundation of responsible business.
many companies have a fantastic sustainability work and they work prevention to prevent that somewhere in the chain there has been forced labor or that activities have been carried out in violation of basic respect for the environment and rules, but not all take their responsibility.
the violation of human rights or the destruction of the environment must never be a competitive advantage.
legislation on human and environmental due diligence targeting large companies and where the requirements are proportionate can be effective and make a big difference.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
the principles of the european pillar of social rights and the sustainable development goals must be the compass for investment and reform.
only then can we create jobs and sustainable growth, ensuring equal opportunities and social protection for all.
the new economy must become a green economy where the fight for climate and gender equality go hand in hand.
as a social democrat, i am proud that one of our most important election promises, to create a more sustainable, social and fair europe, is now on the agenda.
we need clear investments in local, sustainable production and self-sufficiency, and we need money that goes to ecosystem services, biodiversity and climate, so that we can produce food in the future as well.
my question to the commission is: how are you prepared to change the cap to bring it into line with such a sustainable vision?
as the rapporteur, mr lópez, and several other speakers before me have mentioned, nearly 400 000 people die prematurely every year as a result of air pollution.
it is simply not possible to turn a blind eye to environmental and health issues because they are so closely linked.
we must tighten up the pollution ceilings that exist at eu level, and of course they must be in line with wto rules.
it is simply time to seriously accelerate the transition to renewable energy and sustainable transport.
the report on the definition of a union strategy on sustainable tourism lays the foundations for the recovery of the tourism sector after the severe impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the sector.
the report proposes, in this context, focusing on a number of particularly relevant policies governing areas of international trade, financial services, capital markets and payment systems, but also climate change, the digital transformation, energy, and foreign and security policies.
as you noted, we also need to ensure the swift and ambitious implementation of the reforms and investments embedded in the recovery and resilience facility to make the economy more resilient and inclusive, and a sustainable recovery and enhance economic resilience are preconditions for a strong international role of europe.
this includes fostering the use of the euro in trade and in financial instruments, as well as in energy markets, consolidating the leading role of the euro as a denomination currency of sustainable finance products, conducting outreach to third-country partners to encourage a wider use of the euro, and cooperating with the ecb on the possible introduction of a digital euro.
the next item is the report by mr tonino picula, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on cohesion policy and regional environmental strategies in the fight against climate change (a9-0034/2021) [2020/2074 (ini) ]
rapporteur.
– madam president, the main idea of this report was to outline the necessary steps for transition towards a climate—neutral europe by 2050 from a regional perspective.
as 30% of both the cohesion fund and european regional development fund (erdf) will need to be spent on projects for decarbonisation of our economy, cohesion policy has a crucial role in tackling climate change.
on 28 november 2019, the european parliament called out a climate and environmental emergency.
the european green deal and the commitment to a climate—neutral europe by 2050 will require far—reaching reform for its agricultural, trade, transport, energy and infrastructure-investment policies.
so how can our regions contribute to fighting climate change while using cohesion policy funds, and how can we best assist them?
just a few examples: by ensuring greater coherence and coordination between cohesion policy and other eu policies while improving the implementation of climate policies on the ground; by enshrining the ‘do no significant harm’ principle for all investment; by supporting holistic regional environment strategies and civic engagement while relying on the robust research and innovation process; by underlining the strategic role of renewable, sustainable and decentralised energy in the development of the eu regions and their enterprises; by investing further in sustainable mobility and the strong involvement of micro-, small and medium—sized enterprises in the transition process; and by acknowledging the specificities and potential of different regions, such as islands, which have become the front-runners in energy transition.
we call on the commission to monitor and publish reports using a common standard for all member states about the progress of national governments and local and regional authorities in addressing climate change at all levels.
climate change is not only a matter of the environment; it’s also a matter of economic and social change.
economic, social and territorial cohesion means, in this regard, putting a special focus on three elements: territorial cohesion with an understanding of the different needs of eu regions; economic cohesion with sustainable growth and green jobs respecting the needs of the different sectors; social cohesion with a just transition, social fairness and an understanding of energy poverty and special needs.
the transition towards climate neutrality can only be reached in a socially fair and just pathway forwards, leaving no one behind.
the commission welcomes this own—initiative report on cohesion policy and regional environmental strategies in the fight against climate change.
in the 2021—2027 programming period, cohesion policy will make a major contribution to the fight against climate change.
some eur 69 billion will be devoted to climate—related intervention in 2021—2027.
one of the five key policy objectives of cohesion policy, greener europe is dedicated to supporting a greener low—carbon transition towards a net zero—carbon economy.
all cohesion investments will obey the ‘do no significant harm’ principle, in line with the european green deal, and all cohesion funds have ambitious and binding climate contribution targets, including 30% for the erdf and 37% for the cohesion fund.
we will climate track all our investment based on oecd standards for assessing climate impact.
the just transition fund will support those regions most exposed to transition challenges in all member states, alleviating the social and economic costs of transition towards a climate neutral economy.
all levels of governance need to be mobilised, from the local level to the european – regions and cities are major players in our climate action.
in the preparations and negotiations of the cohesion programmes in each member state we are urging more sustainable investments.
at the local level, we are promoting smarter and greener technologies such as smart grids, renewable energy networks and the renovation wave.
to build resilience, cohesion policy will help local and regional authorities in mitigating and adapting to climate change, insisting on respect of the partnership principle and in accordance with the multi—level governance approach involving urban and local authorities, economic and social partners, environmental partners and civil society.
with a strong focus on climate objectives, targeted investments, leaving no region behind and active involvement at local and civil society level, cohesion policy will be an important ally in the fight against climate change for years to come.
long—term recovery from the covid—19 crisis requires future—proof growth strategies supporting climate transition, phasing out reliance on fossil fuels and decarbonising industries.
to ensure the recovery is sustainable, inclusive and fair, europe has put in place an unprecedented financial package of eur 1.8 trillion financed by next generation eu and the long—term eu budget.
we, in turn, have invested a great deal of time, effort and energy in ensuring that the british do not deviate from the european regulatory framework and thus compete with our companies.
we must rather ensure that we have a regulatory framework and a business climate that creates growth across europe.
in the light of all this, i would like to know how the commission plans to create the best possible conditions for european companies, which are now facing new barriers to trade with the uk, but also how it will continue to work on, for example, services trade and, not least, how the business climate across europe will be improved in general.
today, the eu is doing so in the name of climate and gender equality.
if we are to transform the transport sector and meet our climate goals, it is important that we make rail travel more attractive.
as we all know, life is of great importance in the protection of ecosystems and the transition to a sustainable europe.
funding for nature conservation and climate action is never a cost; it is a necessary investment in our society, our economy and our future that really pays off.
anything less than building a green, sustainable society is both unsustainable and uneconomical.
first, the climate crisis is not a future threat.
the climate crisis is here and now.
people are being destroyed, displaced and dying because of climate disasters today.
we know that those who are most affected are those who have contributed the least to climate change, namely the most vulnerable, the poor, women and girls, indigenous peoples.
mr president, commissioner, we have heard today already that europe has a historic responsibility based on our emissions of fossil fuels.
we were building our wealth in the last 100 years and we still one of the biggest emitters globally and the collateral damage is global warming, resulting in a climate crisis.
so it’s also a climate conflict – but this does not excuse anyone who is violent and infringing human rights.
we should look into our situation and also accept citizens that are threatened by death by climate crisis.
we all know that climate change is affecting women and children in a big way.
they are the majority of climate refugees, exposed to additional violence, hunger and death.
research clearly shows that women's full and equal participation in sustainable development decisions is crucial to the success of the fight against climate change.
as president of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, i would also like to express the hope that the renewed partnership between the union and the acp countries and the new cooperation strategy with africa, also mentioned in the report, will put women and the fight for gender equality at the heart of action and joint efforts to combat climate change.
mr president, commissioner, the poorest and most vulnerable are the ones who suffer the most from the impact of climate change.
they suffer the direct impact of disasters, the destruction of biodiversity, the reduction of crops.
they are also often the main targets of energy and economic transition processes which, while absolutely necessary, do not discriminate as they should, positively, discriminate against those who need it most.
as a central pillar of our ambition to lead in the energy transition and in the fight against climate change, we, the european union, must mobilise and mobilise the international community to put in place a fairer and more effective strategy, one that strengthens the contribution of the more developed countries to limiting the impacts of climate change on the most vulnerable populations through humanitarian support measures and the financing of structural interventions, mitigation, training and economic and social skills, a strategy to which the report/debate makes a profound contribution and which cannot be ignored.
many of you have stressed that the most vulnerable populations are often the ones that are most affected by the effects of climate change.
i’m convinced that together we can take forward the issues related to the impact of climate change on vulnerable people, including their displacement.
the european union and its member states are one of the most important players in the fight against climate change.
in 2019 the european union, its member states and the european investment bank supported partner countries with almost eur 22 billion in climate finance, and this included actively supporting vulnerable countries and vulnerable segments of populations in adapting to climate change and preparedness for disaster risk reduction.
there is no time to waste.
i am convinced that the eu and turkey need to work together on important issues such as migration, security, economy, energy and climate.
one in four environmental organizations in the world with which the swedish society for the protection of nature cooperates reports that someone within the organization has been murdered for their commitment.
we must start talking about the role of democracy in sustainable development.
without a free academy and free scientists, we will not have the facts and the truth about the state of the environment.
the most important thing for a sustainable future would be for all countries to become democratic.
among the 17 un global sustainable development goals, the most important one is missing - the right of all people to freedom and democracy.
mr president, climate change already affects and will continue to affect every aspect of our lives, including our fundamental rights, and test our democracies.
at the same time, the fundamental rights of the environmental defender must be protected.
if we don’t step up our efforts, we might see over one billion people in forced displacement by 2050. environmental defenders have had and have an important role in our society.
a sound, healthy and sustainable environment and climate goes hand-in-hand with the human rights and the free aspiration of every human being on this planet.
it is therefore very encouraging and important that the period now has a greater focus on inclusion, and it is important that we have climate change as a priority issue.
we are talking about human rights, the right of people to a healthy environment, the upholding of the fundamental principles of the rule of law and, not least, the strengthening of transparency in decision-making and the impact of those decisions, not least on the environment in which we are trying to live.
environmental organisations and individual citizens should of course be able to influence decisions and legal processes on the environment, health and natural resources.
otherwise, the eu will lose credibility as a leader on environmental and climate issues and as a champion of the rule of law and our efforts to promote democracy in europe.
there is no doubt that climate and the environment are issues where european cooperation can make a real difference.
this of course includes the preservation of biodiversity.
around europe, we have a long tradition of responsible and sustainable management of our nature.
we see it amongst forestry workers who are working with a stewardship mindset to care for what they own for future generations, and we see it amongst dedicated hunters who are not only respecting, but actively stewarding, biodiversity.
i therefore look with concern at the political voices that not only want to restrict the competence of the member states themselves but also to limit the individual's ownership and participation in sustainable nature management.
i therefore hope that we can all in the european parliament stand up for a policy which encourages a long-term sustainable environmental policy that works for the whole of society.
species and ecosystems are threatened by climate change and human influence.
the protection of biodiversity and the ecosystem services provided by nature in the form of food and water, wood and bioenergy, carbon sequestration, water purification and pollination must therefore be strengthened.
high standards for the protection of biodiversity need not be a threat to the profitable use of forests and land.
we need biodiversity to put food on our table, to have clean water to drink and to have clean fresh air to breathe.
moreover, biodiversity will be crucial if we, our societies, life on this planet - and not least our forests - are to have the ability to adapt to a warmer and changing climate.
our political opponents sometimes remind us that we must also think about the economy when we talk about sustainable development, but then we must also remember that biology is the basis of the economy.
this toxic climate online not only creates a hostile environment for females, but also limits free speech.
it is about sustainable economic growth, as defined in the paris agreement, and a green and digital transformation.
today is truly a historic day: europe is the first continent to legislate climate neutrality.
climate action is perhaps the most important task of our generation of politicians.
if we don't act, we're going to reach dangerous tipping points in the climate system, and our children and our grandchildren will no longer be able to prevent very dangerous climate change.
i am really sorry that the greens are not voting, and i agree with jytte guteland: if you vote against it today, you are voting against the climate protection law.
this bill is a climate change turbo, and we need it.
the epp now sees three things as important in terms of implementation: firstly, we rely on the market economy and incentives, on people's creativity, on emissions trading as a system that really helps us achieve our objectives, and not on detailed regulations where we dictate everything from brussels.
and we want to partner with industry to secure a climate-neutral industry and jobs in industry.
on the one side, we have the ursulines, and on the other side we have the franciscans, preaching for the birds and for biodiversity but probably forgetting that if you look at the ipbes—ipcc triangle, yes – biodiversity, climate and the good life.
madam president, commissioner, the commission and the council have made a serious mistake in treating this negotiation on the european climate law as if it were a classic negotiation.
many people will think that lowering the emissions reduction target from 60 percent to 55 percent is not that bad either, but to think that way is to go against the science and not to assume that we are in a climate emergency.
we are not against the european climate law, some of whom we will vote against, but we are against the fact that its ambitions have been so much lowered.
because reducing emissions is not an option: it's a necessity.
we have an ambition to become the world's first climate-neutral continent by 2050. we have set that goal because we know that climate is one of the most important issues of our time.
the new climate law we are voting on today is the heart of that work.
by voting yes to this agreement, we commit to reducing our emissions by 55 percent by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
with the new legislation in place, the eu can now show that we are ambitious, we are effective in our climate action and that it can continue to be compatible with strong economic growth.
we can show the world that we have sustainable development that is actually possible.
either you choose to turn a blind eye to the problems or you use it as a kind of cheap and counterproductive climate populism.
it is of course good that we have a climate law for the eu, but it is not good that the proposal we are voting on today is not enough.
we know the emissions reductions that must be made if we are to live up to the paris agreement, and at least still have a theoretical possibility of keeping global warming close to one and a half degrees by the end of the century, and it takes much more ambition than this.
but, yeah, it's good that we're starting to work on the carbon budget.
we'd have to work on that now, and get the emissions down.
it is, of course, a good thing that we are starting to work with a climate science council.
the climate law clearly shows what often happens when politicians with little real-world experience want to solve a complex problem.
we're reducing the security of supply, raising the price of electricity, and creating new unresolved waste problems.
ambitious and binding targets to reduce emissions that destroy the climate.
the liberals would have liked to go further, but the eu's climate law is needed and is a big step forward.
as a liberal, i'm a technology optimist, but innovation and cheerfulness alone will not solve the climate crisis.
the climate crisis is a long-distance race.
it also affects the eu's economy and the conditions for building a strong and sustainable europe.
i am very pleased that the cef has been extended for another budget period until 2027. and above all, i am pleased that the emphasis has been on synergies between the transport, energy and digital sectors.
we need to fly less and travel more by train, the most sustainable way to travel.
that's not what this fund is supposed to be for, not for the military, but for promoting sustainable transportation instead.
this is what we need to promote sustainable transport.
it should also be borne in mind that the development of infrastructure is not incompatible with climate objectives.
the environmental performance of a vehicle depends primarily on the fuel used, not on the infrastructure it travels on, be it road or rail.
because when we remove bottlenecks on the busiest routes, it will be easier for industries to get their goods out, and citizens will not have to waste hours in car queues and on delayed trains.
it's true about the rule of law, it's true about migration, it's true about climate.
i therefore ask the commission to finally draw up an impact assessment of the burden broken down by member state and not to introduce a single carbon price in the private sector and in road transport because of its price-increasing effect.
re-engineer the carbon tax in a way that is compatible with wto rules and find ways to compensate our companies in difficulty, especially smes.
two months ago, the european parliament voted to approve the new european climate law.
in doing so, we sent a strong signal and an important message, namely that we believe that climate and the environment are issues where european cooperation can and must make a real difference.
the goal of climate neutrality is more important than ever.
the new climate policy framework we are discussing gives us the opportunity to do so, and the decisions we make in the future simply have to be the right ones.
it's the only way we can meet the climate challenge.
the climate challenge is the great destiny of our time.
the commission is therefore encouraging ambitious proposals on sustainable aviation and maritime fuels.
the commission will continue to work on the implementation of the new energy policy, and will continue to work on the implementation of the new energy policy.
however, in addition to technical solutions, we will need popular support for climate change adaptation, and therefore we must share the costs of the transition fairly.
climate change cannot be financed by car-dependent rural workers or the electricity bill of the nurse's assistant.
without public support, with a just transition as the guiding principle in the drafting of the legislation, we will never be able to become a climate-neutral union.
the eu is already the world's most climate-efficient region.
even though our share, at just 9 percent of emissions, is decreasing and much of the rest of the world is increasing, there are now myriad regulations being put in place.
whether our efforts will have any effect on the global climate we do not know, but what we do know is that the eu's expensive climate policies will lower our standard of living, increase energy poverty and make everyday life more expensive for ordinary people.
we have never had more opportunities to make the right decisions, both for the climate and for prosperity, but instead we are betting on an irrational and anti-market model that the rest of the world will not emulate.
climate-related disasters have increased fivefold in the past 50 years, according to the world meteorological organization.
for me and others who have been following the climate issue for a long time, this is no surprise.
we've known for a long time that continued global warming is leading to more and worse extreme weather events.
yet here in parliament we are discussing climate policy which is not even in line with the 2 degree target.
this is the reason why the ambitions of the climate law and our climate policy are insufficient and why we must take several big steps now, raise our ambitions, not least in the run-up to and during the climate summit in glasgow in november, in order to also put pressure on the united states and china.
freedom and security, equality and gender equality, a green and sustainable europe, where people can feel confident about the future.
the un's climate panel shows that the climate situation is more serious than we thought, and that it is man who is the cause.
we need a faster climate change, with more green jobs for everyone.
i want to see a green and sustainable europe, where people can feel confident about the future.
so you can vote until 9:15. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow, thursday, september 16, 2021, at 9:00 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.30 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission (o-000043/2021 - b9-0031/2021) by mr tomas tobén, on behalf of the committee on development, and mr norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the eu contribution to the transformation of global food systems to achieve the sustainable development goals (o-000043/2021 - b9-0031/2021) (2021/2750 ((rsp)).
without eradicating hunger and malnutrition, we cannot make any progress on the 17 sustainable development goals.
secondly, how does the commission intend to use eu trade policy to support the global transition to a sustainable agri—food system in accordance with the farm to fork strategy?
thirdly, what measures does the commission intend to propose to support partner countries, and their local farmers, fishers, foresters and food producers in moving towards more sustainable practices in key areas such as animal welfare, the use of pesticides and the fight against agricultural resistance?
the european union must actively promote this global transition to a sustainable food system in multilateral fora and international events such as the un food systems summit next week.
i am confident that, by working together with stakeholders across all domains, we can move towards the transformation of the eu food system and be more resilient and more sustainable.
- of all agricultural subsidies are actually degrading our health and degrading our environment.
if we change this type of investment, then instead of degrading our environment and our health, the support could actually be used to enhance ecosystem services, slow down climate change, eradicate poverty, eradicate hunger -- things that i hope we all agree we should be doing.
of course, we should use the tools we have to support sustainable food systems outside europe, but we must clean up at home too.
it is truck drivers, bus drivers, families with children, someone's friend, parents or children, and it is important to remember that road safety is also a work environment issue.
it is in the common interest of the eu and the us to work together towards a functioning wto, more sustainable trade with carbon pricing integrated, and to shape standards and consensus on technology development and data transfer.
the arctic and the people who live there are literally on the front lines of the climate crisis.
i am thinking not only of the melting of snow and ice, but also of the rapid loss of biodiversity and what this means for the reindeer industry in sweden, for example.
this is on a full collision course with the climate and sustainability goals that we all agree on.
and no, it's not enough to throw in words like sustainable over mining to solve these problems.
the arctic is one of the few places on this planet that has not yet been ravaged by the oil industry, mining companies, and other environmental destruction.
we want to evolve, and we also care about the climate.
what we're seeing now is that climate change is coming to us first.
energy poverty is rampant.
i know that many here want to do more of what has not worked, that is to say, invest even more in weather-dependent electricity generation before the problems of power transmission, storage, raw materials supply and waste are solved.
never let a good crisis go to waste.
our climate policy is guided by a quasi-religious movement that is becoming more and more purist, where everything except the most sacred and pure is to be phased out, banned or punished.
even under the most favorable weather conditions, solar and wind power today cannot generate enough energy to meet 100 percent of demand year round.
businesses and households will continue to face skyrocketing prices if nuclear power plants continue to be shut down, and that's just based on our current energy consumption.
the green party's policies are harmful to the climate, because the lack of realism in the nuclear issue has forced us to use fossil fuels, and it is now also punishing families and businesses all over europe.
high energy prices.
first of all, we must become better at conserving energy.
we need to get more energy efficient houses and buildings, among other things.
we need to be better at storing energy.
the energy we now over-produce when it blows, to no avail, must be stored and used when we need it most.
we need to get better at transferring energy.
energy must be able to flow freely from where there is a surplus to where there is a deficit, which will vary over time.
and if we are serious about worrying about high energy prices in europe, it is dishonest to lock households into fossil fuels and stop the transition.
renewable energy has the lowest prices, and that is why we must phase out fossil fuels.
the recent discussion that the transition is due to climate change is fake news.
it's russian gas and it's putin who's keeping energy prices high in europe.
we must strengthen emissions trading and we must speed up the transition, because we need new energy in europe.
i have to say, madam president, that russia is not happy with europe switching to renewable energy, that russia is not happy with our green deal, may come as less of a surprise here.
the fact that supply shortages are driving up gas prices and thus energy prices is a direct attack on the green deal of the european commission and the european parliament.
if you haven't understood by now that we need to reduce our energy dependence, you haven't learned your lesson.
we need a rapid switch to renewable energy, we need a rapid start on the isolation and renewal offensive in europe.
the citizens can be supported by the additional tax revenue our countries have from the increased energy prices.
the sharp increase in energy prices observed in recent months is due to several reasons.
first, the disruption of supply chains, the accelerated growth of economies that are making up for the downtime caused by the pandemic, the announcement of a drastic tightening of the european union's climate policy, and finally, what to hide here, vladimir putin's gas blackmail, carried out primarily in western european countries.
germany pushed for nord stream 2, wanting to become a gas hub for western europe at all costs, but now, in order to put it into operation bypassing the provisions of the third energy package, putin is using gas blackmail, which is inflating the gas prices in europe.
it's true that renewable energy is relatively cheap, but if you add to that the need to build up reserves, which we have to have because the sun doesn't always shine and the wind doesn't always blow, then it's the most expensive.
it's clear that we need to lead the climate change.
this is so obvious that we must become less dependent on coal in energy policy.
because nuclear power will be absolutely crucial to our ability to both reduce our emissions and keep europe competitive.
we cannot afford to have our own ideas about which energy type we like best.
we need to ensure that we have both renewable and nuclear power to reduce our emissions, to keep jobs in europe and to meet the common challenge.
nuclear power is climate-smart.
this energy policy is downright harmful, and it is characterized by shadow politics and the opposition to nuclear power in the 1980s rather than genuine concern for the climate.
anyone who really cares about the climate would never close zero-emission nuclear power plants before coal-fired power plants, and it is the electricity customers and the manufacturing industry who should take note.
how does the european commission intend to check and guarantee that imported agricultural products will meet the very strict health and environmental requirements imposed on european farmers?
experts i emphasise experts in poland say that 80% of those receiving direct payments are not engaged in agricultural activity, and active farmers cannot even benefit from direct payments from agri-environmental programmes, and in the future from eco-schemes.
it is clear that security of supply, food security or strict climate and environmental requirements for agriculture are not achieved if farmers' incomes are at a disadvantage.
environmental measures must also be reflected in market prices.
ensure that the entire food chain - transport, processing, trade, consumers - takes responsibility for reducing emissions.
it is not possible to blame the farmer and agriculture alone, because the farmer is one of the few who captures carbon and there must be more incentives for that.
another thing we have to deal with is that we waste 30 percent of our food.
it is about how to create a sustainable future of work and about reshaping europe's food production.
it will be crucial to how we meet challenges such as climate change and pests.
we have a good regulatory framework in place, but we need to work together to continue to reduce use in a sustainable way.
we are in three different crises right now: climate, environment and health.
those who still try to describe the sustainability goals and the goals of having food to eat in the future as something opposite to each other have not been at all involved in education and research.
thirdly, as many have already mentioned, the energy prices of the autumn and the crisis we are seeing there have shown the need to make the housing stock more energy efficient.
if europe wants to be a global power, it must make geopolitical bets that reinforce democratic systems with civil, political, labour, environmental and so on rights.
for over 30 years now, climate science has been very clear about what we need to do.
for over 30 years, climate policy has done too little, too late.
the latest report from the un climate panel has a compilation that shows how the likelihood of us actually reaching the paris agreement is just getting smaller and smaller, and the carbon budget, especially the 1.5 degree target, is shrinking very, very fast.
how are we going to convince other parts of the world to deliver on those assumptions when we don't even have a climate policy that's in line with climate science?
demand that all the 2030 targets must be raised, that we must put more money into climate change and climate adaptation in poor countries, and that we must finally, of course, put an end to fossil fuels and first of all put an end to fossil subsidies.
this is good, but where were those voices when we were hammering through the eu climate law or when we were discussing our common agricultural policy or emissions trading?
it's a development in the wrong direction if we're going to reach our climate goals.
the green transition represents enormous opportunities, not just for the climate, but also for jobs and growth.
i can see it in the north of my home country of sweden, where sustainable industries of the future are emerging, creating new opportunities and new job markets for entire communities.
that's when we show that climate investments can also be investments in jobs and growth.
the responsibility to save the climate is ours.
i am proud that the eu has decided to be the world's most ambitious environmental organisation, that europe is leading by doing.
we need to reduce emissions globally.
nothing would be as effective as a global price on carbon dioxide.
imported emissions can no longer be free.
we have to stop sponsoring carbon emissions.
every day that passes without meeting the climate targets, the situation becomes more urgent.
the wound that has been plaguing this axis politically for some time: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, including the one on afghanistan, the one on the fight against climate change, and the one on defence, with the aukus agreement.
after a turbulent summer we are picking up on the positive momentum – from lifting the travel ban, joint environment commitments in glasgow, meetings on the highest level, suspension of the aluminium and steel trade dispute, the pittsburgh meeting – to name a few.
we want to see sustainable, ethical and inclusive digital and green transitions that benefit our citizens.
we should have high expectations of this cooperation, that it will increase competitiveness, deliver less hassle and less bureaucracy which benefits both businesses and consumers and stimulate green technology development that helps us reduce emissions.
a delegation from the committee on industry, research and energy was in washington d.c. a few days ago, and the renewed interest was evident: this momentum cannot be lost, madam vice-president, and the trade and technology council must start to bear fruit.
the new climate targets and massive investments in e-mobility and weather-dependent energy will further increase this dependent diversity.
it is becoming increasingly clear that china is the big winner in the eu's climate change transition, because we are already seeing the effects of the eu's aggressive ambitions in the form of rising energy prices, inflation, reduced competitiveness and increased dependence on the outside world, as china both increases its emissions and consolidates its geopolitical position in the supply of raw materials and the manufacture of vital components.
the 26th un climate conference in glasgow has just concluded and now the world's countries are coming together in the wto to tackle the problems facing the world trade organisation.
trade policy can make a major contribution to achieving the crucial climate goals, but it must never become an obstacle to biodiversity.
sustainable rules can stop fossil fuel subsidies, promote free trade in climate-smart goods and make the polluter pay for imported emissions too.
the trade summit must pick up where the climate summit left off.
we need more sustainable trade, not green protectionism.
the emissions gap must be closed, and fast.
not just some kind of figure whistle for possible carbon sinks, but concrete emissions reductions here and now in this decade.
it is often said that the eu is the leader in climate change, but we must also acknowledge that if the rest of the world were to pursue our climate policy, we would see global warming of 3 degrees rather than 2 degrees by 2100, according to independent assessors.
leadership must be about having a climate policy that takes responsibility for future emissions in line with science and withstands scientific scrutiny, and that also takes full responsibility for the emissions we have already made.
globally, food and farming systems contribute up to 30% of our greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to an even bigger proportion of biodiversity loss.
why is this ignored in the global climate negotiations?
we cannot save the climate crisis if we don’t address one of the biggest drivers of climate change: our overly intensive farm-animal production system and the promotion and consumption of meat, dairy and eggs.
climate change is a global problem that also requires global solutions.
the meeting in glasgow a few weeks ago is an important reminder that international climate action is what can really make a difference.
as a union, the eu accounts for one tenth of global emissions.
it requires forward-looking climate diplomacy.
but while we see a growing consensus on the need to limit global warming, there is no doubt that the measures taken so far are insufficient.
it is neither sustainable nor reasonable for us in europe to do all the work ourselves while others try to slow down.
an important step would be to seriously work towards a global price for carbon dioxide, something which the un panel of experts also highlighted as a necessary instrument to reduce global emissions.
we therefore need to do more to help others to take action on climate, not least through our aid and development policies.
more countries also need to move their foot from the brake to the gas in climate action.
the 26th un climate conference in glasgow has just concluded, but instead of focusing on the disappointments, we must now look ahead.
europe has a key role to play in this, and the eu must show that we stand for free and rules-based trade, that we are a stable trading partner and that we are serious about making trade more sustainable.
trade policy can contribute to the crucial climate goals to a much greater extent than it does today.
it must never become an obstacle to biodiversity.
through sustainable regulations, we can end fossil fuel subsidies, promote free trade in climate-smart goods and make the polluter pay, no matter where the emissions occur.
the trade summit must pick up where the glasgow climate summit left off.
as part of our broader engagement, we are working to establish regional technology transfer hubs, improve regulatory capacity and strengthen the enabling environment to manufacture vaccines.
it's de-insulated and heated with green energy.
we must speed up the integration of europe's energy networks, which we are negotiating at the moment.
the report shows that renewable energy is now the largest energy source.
but it's not enough, if we're going to meet the climate goals for 2030 and 2050, we have to accelerate.
the pandemic, we saw, reduced energy consumption, and we know that in times of crisis and whenever we want, we can change our behavior.
it's important that we do it now with the climate, but that it be done fairly.
it's about people's equal value and rights, but it's also about how we build our societies -- sustainable societies, healthy societies.
electricity prices are at record highs and energy poverty is widespread.
well, then you want to expand emissions trading to fuel and home heating.
£10,000 a year, this eu tax - because that's what it is, what you call emissions trading - can mean for ordinary people.
it helps alleviate poverty and uphold human dignity for people who have lost everything: in war, in natural disasters, in the wake of global climate change.
it is time to demand that diamonds be produced in a sustainable way, with respect for human rights, without child labour, throughout the chain and, of course, with respect for the local environment.
covid-19 and rapidly escalating climate change are contributing to increased hunger and food insecurity around the world.
you should talk about the climate crisis, about how to save our planet and about the need for the eu to be at the forefront of change.
this is not just the coronavirus crisis, it's the climate crisis.
across the eu, we see scientists, entrepreneurs and business people developing new solutions to reduce emissions and contribute to the circular economy.
we need to get rid of tariffs on climate-smart goods.
we need to remove trade barriers on sustainable services like repairs and rental.
our trade policy is also key to achieving a green and sustainable circular economy, and not just by making it more expensive to emit, but also by giving more carrots to entrepreneurs.