we know that global industrialization and explosive population growth, but also changes in nature, have triggered a threatening climate change.
we also know that even with zero growth in greenhouse gas concentrations, it cannot be stopped.
here we must increase the pressure on those six countries which are responsible for almost 50% of the world's greenhouse gas production.
if we do not start soon to use our advanced, environmentally friendly power and energy technologies, to put a stop to water waste and to remove subsidies for transport across europe, we will condemn our children and grandchildren to a life of permanent ecological emergency.
if action is not taken, air transport will consume all the emissions margins within the kyoto protocol that are saved by the other sectors.
this means that industry is saving emissions, households are saving emissions, and air traffic will consume them if we do not act.
therefore, the debate on possible measures whether in the tax area or in the area of emissions trading must remain open.
at the same time, we must raise the issue of noise pollution and regional night flight bans, including at international level, and prevent possible social dumping.
it is not only the respect of common rules in the field of aviation safety that is important, but above all the social and environmental policy areas.
the commission is not i support what the council and the commission have said on european energy policy.
sixthly, priority must of course be given to renewable resources.
mr president-in-office, i share your scepticism about nuclear energy.
but the debate will be held, and we must ensure that all the positive and critical elements are included in the debate, including the question of the disposal of waste.
seventhly, we cannot impose a uniform energy policy on all countries.
commissioner, you know that at the hearing i asked you to give me a programme on foreign and energy policy.
i would ask you to put forward such a programme urgently, at the latest in the green paper, so that we can really advocate a policy which is consistent with the external environment.
the cultivation of energy crops offers the farmer, at least to a certain extent, the opportunity to find alternatives to sugar beet cultivation and to push non-food production, which is both necessary and also future-oriented.
our sugar beet growers have no chance in competing against the warm climate and low wages of the tropics, but it must be said that our sugar is neither harvested by fire nor by child labour, nor is it transported halfway around the world, which is undoubtedly environmentally friendly.
we have already discussed energy security with commissioner piebalgs this afternoon.
what is your view of renewable energy in the context of the water framework directive, which is a very important strategy for our future energy security?
i should like to stress the words of my colleague mr olajo, who rightly pointed out that we are really tackling a point with this legislative proposal which directly concerns the safety of our citizens and the safety of the environment, and we are certainly not creating superfluous european regulations which are, so to speak, a burden only on the economy.
the commission has also clarified the scope of the waste management system, in particular in cases where the operator, during the site renovation, is bringing the waste into the waste disposal area.
let us remember that the main problem of bathing water pollution today is not point pollution but diffuse sources of pollution, particularly from agriculture.
the commission is not i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which shows how many different issues we are actually talking about when we use the term 'sustainable development strategy'.
sustainable development concerns all the european union's policies, including cooperation with the rest of the world.
the way in which we will shape the union's finances in the future will also show how seriously we take the issue of sustainable development.
if the protection of the environment and species is an important objective of the community, then this must also be reflected in the budget.
we must do everything we can to ensure that instruments like life, which are so important for the environment in europe and work well, are adequately funded.
the commission's communication lists a number of unsustainable trends, most notably climate change.
the commission is therefore called upon to take those measures which are important instruments against climate change.
i hope that the first commission implementing measures on this directive will soon be available, namely for those products which offer a high potential for cost-effective reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
in your very limited time you cannot make a big move, but you can make some points: energy, subsidiarity.
after all, europe and the european union need energy.
and this energy is needed both politically and in the truest sense of the word.
we must not rely on legislation, prohibitions and investment alone, but must also seek to encourage active participation and environmental awareness among the public.
we are only now at the point where we can pay more attention to environmental protection and launch the first major joint rescue operations.
in addition, the global warming is causing the loss of about 86 million tons of fertile soil every day, while adding about 225,000 people to the population and accelerating the rate of devastation.
europe is facing the worst climate change in over 5,000 years.
with the melting of the ice in the north and the spread of deserts in the south of europe, together with the melting of huge 'carbon reserves' in the permafrost and tundra, it will become quite uncomfortable in the foreseeable future.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
in my opinion, which i was able to draw up for the committee on industry, research and energy, i gave some examples.
perhaps i can give an example of something which did not have much weight at the time but has gained weight in this parliament in recent days: the energy question!
it was surprising and astonishing that many members who perhaps until recently were skeptical of european energy policy have now very massively expressed their support for a common energy policy.
the german chancellor, as president of the council, who has always stressed subsidiarity, has today clearly spoken in favour of a common energy policy.
i should now like to mention, for example, the question of space policy, which we have also discussed here, and where the question is not of sending europeans into space but of controlling the environment or of providing early warning of tsunamis.
does the council consider that the eu emissions trading directive is meeting its original objectives and do you think that a co2 levy could constitute an own resource of the european union?
we know that this climate agreement also has costs for industry.
the commission is not i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the second example is energy policy.
if russia is going to nationalise and politicise energy policy, then we must at least europeanise parts of our energy policy.
it is very important that we get this report now and that we say clearly: we need a national energy policy.
but it must be supplemented and extended by a strong european energy policy, which is also an essential instrument of foreign policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a very important one.
if we do not do this in a sustainable way, we are definitely losing out to globalisation.
the development of environmental policy will teach us that the courts and the european court of justice will increasingly be concerned with this problem.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs rothe for her commitment to renewable energy, and also mr turmes, who has praised my home state very much for its exemplary work on renewable energy, also in a macroeconomic context, because we attach great importance to the fact that cheap, safe and clean energy is produced very easily.
renewable energy installations and thus also those supporting the kyoto target should in future have priority in the regulatory procedure for building and land permits.
i believe that this sector of energy services is a great opportunity for the future, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises.
some of my predecessors have already mentioned that in the energy sector, particularly in the crossborder area - and we will be adopting the services directive by consensus this week - there are completely new challenges for each member state and that we need simplified procedures.
energy dependence is the number one issue.
the security of energy supply will be a very important concern for us in the future.
will the council of energy ministers consider the kyoto protocol and the period after 2012 and the impact of joint implementation in this area?
does the austrian presidency now intend to address this vulnerability, not only of ukraine but of course of the european economy, in terms of energy prices?
what are the plans for the energy price sensitivity sector of the european economy?
what do you do in a situation like this in real life, where it's not about waste and self-indulgence?
we have now adopted the road-cost directive, but what does the commission intend to do, particularly in the field of studies and scientific research, to clarify the link between pollution and heavy goods transport and then finally to put forward a new proposal for a better, more environmentally friendly eurovignette directive on the basis of this?
first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur very much for this balanced report, because it deals in a very balanced way with the three pillars of sustainability: economy, ecology and also the socio-cultural aspect.
and it also highlights the climate policy importance of wood energy and wood as a building material instead of fossil fuels and building materials.
even the most optimistic person must realize that multinational corporations do not care whether they exploit the environment, whether they ruin small and medium-sized enterprises or even leave behind an army of unemployed.
the extension of the scope of the directive to include prevention, disaster prevention in third countries and marine pollution also seems to me to be essential.
mercury is a persistent substance and can be converted in the environment into highly toxic methylmercury, which also has enormous negative effects on human health.
dental amalgam, released through dental surgeries and crematoria, is a significant source of mercury emissions.
therefore, it is necessary that dental amalgam waste is disposed of properly.
we call for bold, concrete, verifiable european action by the member states on growth and employment and on energy policy.
fifthly, we need concrete european projects, not merely national action plans: the creation of a european research framework, the creation of a european infrastructure, the creation of a european energy market, the creation of a european airspace, the creation of a european initiative for start-ups and innovation, the development of european educational programmes.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources.
secondly, the international atomic energy agency in vienna must be given a greater role in a multilateral system of uranium enrichment and nuclear waste disposal.
over the last two centuries, population growth, the exploitation of natural resources and pollution have led to a rapidly increasing loss of growth.
forests, for example, not only provide us with the raw material wood and enrich the air with oxygen, but also purify our water and prevent erosion and flooding, a function that is becoming increasingly aware in all parts of the world as the impact of climate change increases.
the world summit on sustainable development in 2002 - and the commissioner said this - decided to reduce the rate of biodiversity loss.
within the european union, we went beyond this demand and said that by 2010 we must achieve a reversal in the decline in biodiversity.
the european union and the member states should also pay particular attention to the biodiversity of the oceans, and the european union itself must take care of this.
within three months, two prominent opposition politicians were assassinated, and the political climate has deteriorated greatly.
the second example i would like to take, because you emphasize it very strongly in your paper, is energy policy.
i do not want to prejudge the honourable member who is speaking after me, but one important issue you have raised is the security of energy supplies.
i am very glad that you were in moscow recently and that - as far as i have heard - you have made some progress, although it may still be up to russia to make some decisions, particularly on the energy charter.
i also heard you say recently that we should also talk about nuclear energy.
you are right, and i am very glad that the commissioner responsible for energy is coming now.
although i am sceptical about nuclear energy, we must talk about it, including the risks involved.
if we are discussing the question of proliferation, particularly in connection with iran, more nuclear energy means more dangers if we do not work together multilaterally to ensure that the risks associated with it are minimised as much as possible.
we see the chinese strategically buying into the energy markets, we see russia moving away from a continuous, reliable policy, and we see global markets in a very dynamic development.
that is why energy policy - and i thank commissioner piebalgs for putting energy efficiency at the centre of this - is a top priority.
this is where jobs in the craft sector are created, where small circuits are created that give us energy security.
on the other hand, we must not forget the competitiveness of our energy industry.
i would like to ask the commission in particular to do a lot of research into what the kyoto protocol will mean for our energy-intensive core industries, such as the steel and aluminium industries and many other sectors, and for our energy production after 2012. i believe that sustainability must also be considered from an environmental perspective, particularly in the context of competitiveness.
i call on the commission and on mr barroso, the president of the commission, to take on this important task, which is of paramount importance for our future in europe, through the various commission services - whether in the field of communication strategy, tax policy, external economic policy, foreign policy, competition policy or environmental policy.
this applies to a wide range of fields: student exchange programmes, conservation of biodiversity, but of course particularly to development policy programmes, programmes to combat poverty and programmes to achieve sustainable development.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his very dedicated own-initiative report and also for not sparing himself the trouble of going to different member states and seeing what opportunities there are in the renewable resources sector.
the commissioner mentioned that energy has become the most important issue in the last six months.
an ecological and economic energy mix is essential for europe.
renewable resources, renewable energy, could also be the main pillars in this energy mix.
the production of food and plants for energy has been a habit for centuries.
with the massive use of fossil fuels, the energy for our reptiles, which came from plants, was replaced.
the production of renewable raw materials for energy is of fundamental importance for european agriculture, forestry and rural areas.
the european union is right to see renewable energies as an important factor in energy use, so that it is no longer so dependent on international energy producers and, above all, on politically unstable regions.
recent developments have shown how precarious some elements of europe's energy supply are and how necessary it is, for the competitiveness of our continent in particular, to improve the energy supply situation, to improve it in a sustainable way.
we are very pleased that the commission, the council and the european parliament have reached a common position on the objectives to be pursued in energy policy and, above all, in energy supply.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the developing countries.
i hope that in future we will have a truly european energy policy, even if it is for individual projects.
first of all, i would like to thank commissioner neelie kroes, who is in the chamber, because she is conducting the sector inquiry and she will show us where there are bottlenecks in the energy market and whether the bottlenecks are natural or deliberate.
what happens in the event of an emergency or a terrorist attack or an act that causes us a major problem in the energy sector?
a secure, reliable and affordable energy supply for the european union is essential, both for citizens and for resident businesses, to safeguard the union's industrial competitiveness.
increasing the efficiency of energy production and making the best use of existing generation capacity and infrastructure is not only economically viable but also undoubtedly environmentally friendly.
if we are building up energy network infrastructure across the eu, we should at least use new technologies to improve the efficiency of the networks, avoid unnecessary duplication of lines and minimise environmental impacts such as methane emissions from natural gas pipelines.
it is also an important step towards the targeted reduction in energy consumption.
the only reason why a non-european country should not become a member of the eu is to extend the eu to the borders of the energy-rich regions of the middle east and the caspian sea.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
it is therefore clear that the european parliament is in favour of greater involvement because we want as much competition as possible and because we want as little regulation as necessary for social and environmental reasons, for fairness and for ethical values.
we therefore support the creation of a single european research area and a single energy area, as well as the co-decision of taxation policy.
the energy crisis and high unemployment show that we have domestic problems on the one hand, and structural and global problems on the other, which we must tackle actively.
one song contest a year is not enough to bring the diversity of this continent closer to citizens in a sustainable way.
now, of course, you can say that it's an image thing, it helps the region, it helps the city, you invest in the future, also in sustainability, which is also an important point.
i hope that the sustainability, the good reputation and the good impulses for the arts, for the culture of europe, will be reflected here in this report and then in the activities and in the implementation.
environmental policy and citizens' satisfaction are one and the same, and we are one in europe.
under article 95 (10) of the ec treaty, harmonisation measures such as the regulation on these fluorinated greenhouse gases may include a safeguard clause authorising member states to adopt temporary derogating measures.
in the debate before austria's accession to the european union, one of the main arguments of the opponents of accession was the danger of falling environmental standards.
climate-damaging gases are being discussed right now, and the effects of climate change are being seen in the news right now: floods in germany and austria.
climate action should be of the utmost importance today and right now.
what do you think interested citizens will think of you today if you give the greenhouse gas polluters a free hand under the pretext of the single market?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
unfortunately, austria is not a model for all environmental policy measures, but we have stricter measures than those proposed in the harmonisation package on the issue of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
austria and denmark - this has been mentioned very often, thankfully also by the rapporteur, who has always defended this position - have introduced general bans on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
the fact is that there has certainly been some progress in the field of energy policy, especially as regards the last council.
we adopted the directives on the transeuropean energy networks on monday.
our nuclear energy policy - mr president-in-office, you are right - is a national matter.
i am of course in favour of the austrian line, but the question of security, including proliferation, will play a major role in the context of the strengthening of nuclear energy, and i would like to see more activities on this.
this institutionalised cooperation between liaison officers will help to increase security in the european union's environment and neighbourhood.
newcastle and bilbao show that culture can also be sustainable.
it is also important that these scarce european funds should end up in the hands of the people and not go to waste.
on behalf of the spö delegation, i would like to state the following as the responsible member of the environment committee: austria and denmark have introduced general bans on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
as a long-standing member of the committee on the environment and food safety, i am also pleased that the commission is announcing in a supplementary statement a long overdue revision of the nutrition facts directive.
energy policy: we have discussed the need to take substantial steps, especially in the area of infrastructure, regardless of the constitution, which gave europe greater powers in energy policy.
it is expected that there will be an increase in traffic of up to 60%, with the expected consequences of congestion, environmental damage, accidents and also the risk of loss of competitiveness of european industry.
the programme would also send a signal to the population suffering from the negative effects of road freight transport, such as emissions, noise, health and environmental burdens which people articulate, which they consider dramatic and which they want to reduce.
if we want to protect the environment and the health of the people, we need not only a programme of 400 million euros, but a focused objective that intervenes and clearly states that we cannot simply let traffic run as it does, but that we must control it.
thirdly, the proposal is an important step towards reforming the european vat system in a changed environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
unfortunately, authorities often fail to intervene in time, and a lack of cooperation can lead to months before judges allow a child to be removed from the abused environment.
commissioner, i am very pleased that there is finally recognition in europe and the world that we need independence from the politically unstable regions from which the european union derives a large part of its energy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
it has worked very well and perfectly with the committee on industry, research and energy, and what has been done here can also be seen.
i have agreed with the rack report, although i believe that given the high environmental and human impact of transport, it would be essential to increase the share of rail in freight transport.
my question is: what is the energy community really like?
the commission has produced a nice paper on the security of energy supply in the union.
what can the council presidency do to ensure that europe acts in a united manner, particularly in relation to russia, and what can be done to maintain the sustainability standards we have achieved in the community also in relation to our partner russia in energy production?
instead of constantly seeking new sources of finance, for example in the form of direct eu taxes, and instead of constantly increasing the spending side, it is probably time for the vast majority of citizens in the european union to finally get a grip on fraud and waste.
i believe that the european union is moving in the right direction here: towards cooperation, towards an open mind on the global energy market.
what is the impact on energy production?
what energy mix will emerge and how will investment behaviour in this area develop?
in the case of sustainable agriculture, our european model, there must be certainty in planning, and this is the case with the fixing of the budget until 2013, that is to say, for the next seven years.
many scientists attribute the year of disaster, 2005, to global warming and the greenhouse effect.
in 1997, the eu decided to increase its share of renewable energy to 12% by 2010. but it seems that we can at best achieve an increase to 8%.
in view of these figures, the chances of success of the targeted target of saving one fifth of current energy consumption by 2020 are rather doubtful.
instead of continually increasing the funding for the eu nuclear research programme, i think we should better direct this funding towards the promising fields of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
environmental groups fear that arsenic in particular will have a serious impact on the huasco valley, where 70 000 small farmers are involved in irrigation.
despite protests from environmental groups and local residents, the chilean government has unfortunately given the green light for the demolition, knowingly accepting that the ecological balance of the region is being destroyed.
we must send a clear signal on health and environment policy with our vote tomorrow, and our amendments, which are very likely to be adopted tomorrow, strengthen article 6 and make it a clear signal for more environmental protection.
this is the only way to avoid distortions of competition and environmental dumping.
the nitrate limit should be set at 50 milligrams, and there should be no exceptions for agricultural activities, which in many regions of europe are the main cause of pollution of our groundwater.
this ignores groundwater as an independent ecosystem.
another criticism is that it leaves considerable discretion to the member states, particularly in assessing the status of groundwater, in setting guidelines for reversing rising pollution trends and in establishing the starting point for this reversal.
i believe, however, that environmental policy is an area which benefits all european countries, including those which already have excellent regulations, because environmental problems do not stop at frontiers.
we should use geodata together, especially for environmental purposes, to promote standards of provision and, if possible, to create a geodata structure that works across the eu.
i think flooding is really one of the great environmental issues, and you just turn on your tv and you know that this phenomenon is unfortunately increasing.
i therefore very much welcomed the commission's proposal to present this flood action programme after the year 2000. the commission's communication on flood management was then published and the environment ministers also asked the commission to submit this proposal for a directive.
i would remind you that article 1 of the water framework directive requires not only good ecological status of water but also that flood effects should be reduced as much as possible.
a second area which has also been given greater priority, especially by the european parliament, is the energy sector.
we all know how important it is that we make progress in the energy sector, and i have repeatedly stressed how important it is that the big energy companies, which make huge profits, particularly from the increase in oil and gas prices, should invest more in research.
it is particularly important in the energy sector that we, the european union, do our part here through the framework programme for research and nuclear research.
the question of nuclear research is of course very controversial because the question of nuclear energy is controversial.
there could have been more - there are different opinions on this - but i believe that the area of safety in the field of nuclear and energy research should be given absolute priority.
environmental problems of a transnational nature can only be effectively tackled through international cooperation.
the protection of the alps is one of the most important tasks for all member states, because the economic, social and environmental problems of the alpine region are felt across borders in europe.
the convention for the protection of the alps was signed by the european community in salzburg on 7 november 1991 and entered into force in 1998 following the council decision of 26 february 1996. the european community has recently signed the 'soil protection', 'energy' and 'tourism' protocols, and now these protocols are to be ratified.
the alpine region has a sensitive natural environment which is being seriously affected by the increasing traffic.
the resulting environmental damage can only be remedied with years of high financial expenditure.
for example, if we promote transeuropean transport or the cultivation of insecticide-intensive crops such as maize or tobacco, we also encourage the risk of groundwater pollution.
the president of the council referred to the energy charter, saying that president putin had said that in the long term ratification was not out of the question.
that is what the russian foreign minister said in the foreign affairs committee and, most recently, the russian ambassador said at an energy discussion we had.
i think we must say very clearly and unequivocally - especially on the question of energy policy - yes to cooperation with russia, but no dependence on russia.
i am convinced that this type of energy production creates jobs in rural areas and is therefore close to the lisbon strategy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
instead of constantly looking for new sources of funding - in the form of new eu taxes, for example - and increasing the spending side, i believe it is high time to step up the fight against fraud and waste.
i think the nuclear lobby is trying to lure out billions of dollars for nuclear energy projects by making untenable promises of a clean, safe and environmentally friendly energy solution and by concealing the truth about the costs.
the nuclear research budget is seven to eight times the amount spent on renewable energy and energy sources.
if the actual costs for example, for the final disposal of nuclear waste and the consequential costs of possible nuclear pollution were taken into account, it would be clear that nuclear energy is not only extremely dangerous but also not profitable.
i believe that there should be no new money in nuclear energy, but that this money should be used to develop renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency.
as a staunch opponent of nuclear technology and of the production of energy from nuclear technology, it was natural for me to vote against the buzek report in the end.
you yourself said here on 18 january that the waste of some programmes is regrettable, but there are recipes for that, namely control.
there is a negative aspect to the ecological balance, namely the road costs directive.
we in the socialist group have supported them on many points, except for the point of creating a separate system for trading aviation emissions.
between 1990 and 2002, co2 emissions from international aviation in the 25 eu member states increased by 60%.
in addition, the impact on climate is far greater than its quantity would suggest, due to the level of emissions from aviation.
rail transport is taxed and subject to the emissions trading system, which significantly increases the cost of this environmentally friendly mode of transport.
emissions trading is not a substitute for the necessary measures to reduce climate impacts, but it has the potential to do so if it is properly organised.
we support, as already emphasised, the commission's proposal to integrate aviation into the existing emissions trading system, but we also support paragraph 24 which calls for a pilot phase for a separate system for the period 2008 to 2012.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report.
finally, a report with a proper critique of the impact of aviation on the climate!
this is not possible globally at the moment, but we must act before aviation emissions eat away at our savings in other sectors of the economy.
the commissioner, at present, is making huge profits internationally in energy trade, especially in energy imports.
a practical example: gasprom buys major energy companies in europe.
what measures will the commission take to ensure the security of energy supply in the future?
the conflict over mr khodorkovsky is, after all, the starting point of the current energy policy situation, as president putin has exerted pressure by nationalising and monopolising the energy sector.
my question is: how will bilateral cooperation with russia in the field of energy policy be continued?
my question is: do you think, or does the commission think, that russia and other countries in this area can be reliable partners in the future in terms of energy supply?
thirdly, on russia: it is fitting that you have both the energy issue and russia at the top of your agenda.
we have two things that are very important to us: firstly, we need a legally binding framework between russia and the european union on energy issues.
if it is not the energy charter - president barroso has announced new initiatives - then it must be another legally binding framework, transparent and valid for both sides.
although the nuclear industry has been looking for solutions to radioactive waste for five decades, we are still at the beginning.
nuclear waste is being transported across europe in millions of tonnes of taxpayer-funded transport, which carries a high risk of breakdown and is an ideal target for terrorist attacks.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the effects of the nuclear accident.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the effects of nuclear power.
for producers of fair trade products, i call for a price structure that ensures their survival, fair production conditions and compliance with environmental standards in the interests of sustainable development.
our ambitious goal of achieving an environmentally and socially sustainable global economy is just around the corner.
this is particularly worrying in this area because we have seen emissions increase again in recent years, especially in the old member states.
one of our objectives is to increase the european union's energy independence somewhat.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector.
what specific forms of renewable energy will you be promoting in the near future through targeted measures and to what extent?
and third, we're also at the end of our cherished mechanistic interpretations of our environment, because we're here in a realm where they don't work.
as the spokesman for energy issues for the european people's party, i am naturally particularly concerned about energy and the kyoto issue.
in the coal sector, china plays a very important role: 75% of the energy is produced from coal and, mr brok, only 1% from nuclear power.
we see energy as a key challenge and i would ask the commissioner to address this at the summit.
if you list all the problems of this country, once called 'the breadbasket of southern africa', you have to mention the many brave people who, in a climate of severe oppression, have the courage to denounce the wrongs again and again.
the market has social responsibility, sustainability.
consumers turn to organic products for their more intense taste, as well as out of a sense of responsibility for the environment and animals and to make an important contribution to an intact, diverse landscape.
we must instead focus heavily on product and environmental quality, that is, the highest quality.
we have on the one hand basic research, the 7th framework programme, the european research council, the technology platforms - here we have delivered something very sustainable - and i want to congratulate commissioner potočnik because this 7th framework programme will be a great step forward.
the iter fusion reactor could also play a role here, because nanotechnology is a completely new challenge, especially in fusion and plasma research, and also in energy policy, to promote energy efficiency, to minimise friction losses and to develop anti-corrosion strategies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the last point is the energy question: i support all those who are in favour of a common energy policy.
but many of those who applaud today would have applauded a year ago if we had said we needed a common energy policy?
and if we start to increase energy efficiency, to develop alternative forms of energy, and to put in place measures in the transport sector, in the housing sector, then many will stand up and say, "no, that's not what we meant".
but back to russia: the problem we have today is that the energy policy relations between the eu and russia are unbalanced, that russia - with putin at the head - unfortunately makes energy policy more and more a political power issue and not an economic factor as we do.
russia must remember one thing: its energy reserves, especially its gas reserves, are running out.
it would therefore also be in russia's own interest to recognise that it needs our technology, our know-how, our financing and therefore to establish equal energy relations with europe.
if we can face each other, particularly on the energy question, then we will also come up with good solutions.
do not reduce the meeting to the energy partnership, but also talk about all the things that were discussed today!
secondly, give us a timetable for when we will have the eu internal energy market that president barroso has promised.
increasing energy independence is our priority.
the creation of a research focus on reducing energy consumption and creating renewable energy sources is our main focus and our biggest contribution to more innovation.
finally, the abolition of export subsidies for transport of animals should not only show more compassion for animals but also protect the environment and help the population suffering from transit traffic.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the waste of eu money is obviously seen by many as a crime of chivalry.
environmental policy should be given the proper weight, but frogs should not be protected any more than people.
the second reading of the financial instrument for the environment once again shows that the financial perspective for 2007-13 does not provide a sufficient basis for the union's tasks in the field of the environment, as in many other areas.
it has already been said that renationalisation is seen as a threat to european environmental policy and european added value.
the causes of breast cancer need to be studied more comprehensively, particularly the role of harmful chemicals and environmental exposures, diet, lifestyle and genetic factors, and also the question of how these factors are related.
i voted against the graça moura report for the following reasons: the approach underlying the 2007-2013 culture programme, which is that cultural networks need only start-up funding and then finance themselves, is contrary to their non-commercial nature and the eu's objective of sustainability of funding.
fair trade is not just an issue in the textile sector, but also in the energy sector.
in russia, oil is currently being supplied to energy-intensive industries at $8 a barrel, and gas is available at a very competitive price.
what opportunities do you see for the survival of our energy-intensive industry and what impact will this have on russia's accession to the wto?
mr president of the commission, you have made a foreign policy proposal in the field of energy policy, which i very much welcome.
i would ask you to remain strong if some countries are again excluded because they realise that they may not want this common energy and common foreign policy.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
we do not intend to do so, but we want to make it clear to russia that it should try to solve the problems that are facing us together, from the energy problem to the neighbourhood problem.
the expulsion of georgians right now, in the face of these incidents is as unfortunate a coincidence as the energy price increases in the case of ukraine before the elections and in the case of belarus after the elections.
we will soon recover several thousand tonnes of contaminated material and the 500 tonnes illegally dumped in africa, so that many times the original special waste will be returned to europe.
official exports of toxic waste to africa are reported to have declined sharply.
however, this is not the case in samples taken in european ports, where about half of all shipments of waste declared as non-toxic have turned out to be toxic.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal dumping of hazardous waste.
we will also have to deal with the problem of the growing trade in electronic waste and shipwrecks, which is not yet covered by international conventions.
for decades, exports of toxic laboratory chemicals, solvents, waste pesticides, and sewage sludge from industrialized countries have turned africa into a dangerous dumping ground.
the criminal business of toxic waste is a very lucrative business for a few people in europe and africa.
but we must also - and i attach particular importance to this - take the environment very seriously.
environmental aspects were discussed, technological aspects and many others.
we must also bring a qualitative aspect to the question of energy security, which means that anyone who is prepared to be taken off the grid quickly can also get a corresponding reduction in prices.
we must finally move away from a purely quantitative debate on energy.
we need qualitative factors in energy supply which will make it possible, in terms of pricing, for a customer who has absolute security of supply to pay more.
on the other hand, if a customer is flexible because he can, for example, obtain the energy for his hot water needs at night or during the day, then he should also receive a correspondingly lower price.
everyone should be able to choose his energy supplier, everyone should be able to get electricity from the generator he wants.
the increasing quantity must be managed, the environmental and health problems must be satisfactorily solved, and all this will cost a lot of money.
sesar, if well managed and put into effect as soon as possible, can make a relevant contribution to the reduction of harmful greenhouse gases.
good cooperation with weather services and appropriate control of flight altitudes and speeds can prevent urban air loops and condensation strips, which according to recent research are becoming more and more frequent causes of climate problems.
the public interest - and this includes, for example, climate protection - must be central to our concerns, and eurocontrol is probably better suited to this than voting rights for industry alone.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
in particular, in my capacity as rapporteur on the extension of the responsibilities of the european aviation safety agency (easa), i fully support the community's stated objective of ensuring an efficient air traffic control infrastructure, which will enable the safe, energy-efficient and environmentally sound development of air transport, taking advantage of the technological advances of programmes such as galileo.
the energy sector in particular - i do not see commissioner piebalgs at the moment - is an important factor for growth and employment.
but if a head of government says to us: 'how can we have a common european energy policy if we are only going to liberalize everything', then the commission must set up a political framework for european energy policy.
the second point which i think is very important is the energy question.
energy will be one of the issues, along with agriculture.
we will need additional initiatives in the field of renewable energy.
in the food sector, as you see the prosperity of china, india and many other countries around the world, we will need a lot of energy for new and good quality food.
i would like to say something about the co2 debate: how should we behave if in russia a barrel of crude oil is sold for $8 - plus heavy industry - but we have to pay up to $80 and then we have to pay the co2 levy through emissions trading, so that we have a double burden on our energy and thus on our raw materials industry?
fine dust emissions are a current issue in diesel vehicles.
this co2 emission has global implications, and of course global co2 emissions have european implications.
firstly, the structural deficits of the european union in energy policy, the consequences of which were only repeatedly brought to our attention at the beginning of november.
it is quite obviously negligent to deny our current dependence on foreign nationalized energy corporations.
the eu-russia relationship cannot be such that we have to conceal our concerns about human rights violations and press freedom violations in order to have any hope of having successful energy talks.
like guido sacconi and many other members of this house, i have always been a strong advocate of worker protection and of environmental and consumer protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
this is the only way to avoid distortions of competition and environmental dumping.
agricultural activities are still the main source of pollution of our groundwater in many regions of europe.
for example, in austria, thanks to the eu's groundwater 2010 programme, groundwater pollution from the past 20th century is now being worked up.
we owe it to our people and to the environment to put an end to the policy of promoting transport across europe immediately.
i come from a region in the tyrol which is heavily affected by car emissions.
many other factors also have a strong impact on the actual emissions behaviour of transport, such as the age of the vehicle fleet or driving behaviour.
and it is often about new tasks in europe, even if many people feel that europe is too much to be enjoyed today: the energy question - even if it remains warm - has a european dimension.
the approach adopted in this legislative instrument, namely an emissions-oriented air safety policy, is the right one.
i am voting in favour of the resolution because i consider the jointly drafted text to be very balanced and to take account of my two main concerns, the structural shortcomings of the european union in energy policy and the quality of european relations with russia.
we cannot deny our current dependence on foreign nationalized energy companies, just as we cannot put european values behind economic interests.
economic and political interests must not be conflated, and concerns about human rights violations and press freedom must not be suppressed in the hope of making energy talks more successful.
it is therefore all the more important to start negotiations now, which will lead to the further development of a positive climate and which will probably eventually lead to a privileged partnership with this important partner of the european union.
i also welcome amendment no 5 to the seppänen report, which deals with the international atomic energy agency in the field of safeguards and safety of nuclear power stations.
the community should in future develop a code of conduct for an international nuclear accident warning system under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency.
we call on the united nations to create a working environment in which a culture of silence has no chance.