in rejecting this directive, let us make it clear that we want a different europe, one in which not only the economic, but also the social and ecological aspects are important.
the pilot also guides the ships safely into the ports and ensures that environmental disasters, large and small, are prevented.
the european union has, or is working on, legislation on a number of social matters, such as safety, security, the environment, state aid and competition.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident.
deregulation through prices is beneficial to large producers who can continue to expand without respect for the environment and exploit even more, outside europe, an underpaid labour force.
i am very pleased that the committee on the environment has substantially strengthened the council's common position.
given the growing importance of community environmental policy, the challenge is therefore to ensure that the regulation complies with all the provisions of the aarhus convention, not least in order to maintain some credibility with the member states and at international level.
this is particularly true for the identification of possible grounds for refusal of environmental information.
it is clear that the general interest of the environment cannot be defended solely by persons who can assert a direct or individual interest, as provided for in the treaty.
the commission has therefore decided to restrict access to justice to environmental organisations which meet certain conditions.
and to try to impose shortcuts or additional conditions on this is not only unacceptable but also contrary to the aarhus convention; i therefore sincerely hope that those of you who are in favour of an open and transparent environmental policy in the eu will adopt the report as it stands.
the declaration concluded that further strengthening of democratic institutions as part of an inclusive political process is crucial for the long-term sustainable and peaceful development of chechnya and for peace and stability in the north caucasus as a whole.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
so while i am sensitive to the rapporteur's arguments for moving european agriculture towards sustainable agriculture, i would like to end by highlighting two fundamental elements.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after two and a half years of intensive research and inspections, the international atomic energy agency cannot confirm the peaceful nature of the iranian nuclear programme and very important questions remain unanswered.
the stability of the whole region is at stake, as is the effectiveness of the international atomic energy agency itself.
i particularly welcome the adoption of paragraph 17 which proposes to limit the use of mercury in dental amalgams by the end of 2007. parliament thus confirms its vote of 25 january 2005 on my report on the european environment and health action plan, which in point 6 proposed the use of safer alternatives to mercury used in dental amalgams.
it is therefore equally essential that the european union quickly finds a solution to the treatment of the 12 000 tonnes of mercury waste that will be produced over the next 15 years by the chlorine and soda industry.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr barroso, mr verheugen, i am an environmentalist, but i am not going to talk to you about energy.
furthermore, the united nations ecosystem assessment programme points out that 25 percent of commercial species are overexploited.
but other measures can bring significant results, such as strengthening the fight against pollution from ships or promoting sustainable fishing methods.
the sustainability of fisheries resources is a key objective and it is in this spirit that i have oriented my report for opinion on the commission communication on a community approach to eco-labelling programmes for fishery products.
you have also said that you will shortly be making new proposals to put an end to the concentration of power in the distribution of energy, a bundling as it is called.
finally, commissioner, i would like to ask you and the council: how will you finance the health and environment action plan and make it coexist with this new public health programme?
europe must, as we know, give itself the means to combat environmental pollution, which affects the most vulnerable among us, pregnant women, children.
as a member of the committee on the environment, i would like to stress the impact of environmental factors on health.
mr president, in consultation with professor trakatellis of the committee on the environment, we have divided the budget neatly according to the scale used by the commission.
the energy-saving use of agricultural products, a real opportunity for the future of our farmers, which respects the environment, merits the setting of binding objectives, especially if they are reasonable.
this is because amendment no 22, which condemned the commission's insistence on liberalising services in the eu and elsewhere without accompanying it with adequate social and environmental legislation, was rejected.
in this connection, the environmental group unanimously calls on the council to amend and improve this text, particularly on the two points i have just mentioned.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the need to mobilise people's savings in europe to finance sustainable transport networks and to finance eco-efficiency.
a real solution is to encourage young families to have more children and to create a favorable climate for this.
firstly, our energy security depends on developing alternatives to oil.
secondly, the transport sector is not contributing enough to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
turning to the question of environmental impact, it is important to start from the basis that biofuels bring a number of environmental benefits.
however, it is also true that their production can have some adverse effects on the environment.
i believe that second-generation biofuels can have even greater environmental benefits and their introduction should be accelerated as much as possible.
the commission will make sure, therefore, that the promotion of biofuels continues to bring benefits in environmental terms, as well as the benefit of security of supply.
this could ensure that only biofuels whose cultivation meets required environmental standards count towards objectives in the directive.
the initial reaction of environmental ngos, fuel suppliers and other stakeholders has been encouragingly positive.
as regards car manufacturers' obligations, carmakers have voluntarily agreed to limit average co2 emissions from new cars to 140g per km by 2008/2009.
i am very pleased that the commission is working to make our mobility more sustainable.
but there is one question you haven't answered: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
we are now, for example, moving towards a european tax in the form of a tax on energy and transport.
on the other hand, other areas are being sacrificed, such as 'life +', a major environmental programme which will only be financed at 16% of the amount originally planned.
the second pillar of the agricultural policy, which is to finance rural development and focus on quality, animal welfare and environmental protection, is being curtailed.
firstly, the impact of climate change on the frequency of natural disasters, the torrential rains in northern and eastern europe, the drought, the fires last year are here to remind us of the urgent need to act and to act quickly in this matter.
the purpose of the solidarity fund is to cover these emergency costs, such as the supply of water, energy, housing and repairs to basic infrastructure.
we don't have time to waste.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new environmental action programme.
in order to involve citizens more closely in the implementation of environmental policy at all levels of government, better access to spatial environmental information is of great importance.
it is also intended to be the engine for the collection of new relevant environmental information and, ultimately, to be a tool for making environmental policy more efficient and effective across borders.
the existing data infrastructures and environmental information in the member states will be better coordinated and made readable at eu level.
the proposal covers both information needed to monitor the state of the environment and information to improve it.
i think that all policy decisions which have a direct or indirect impact on the environment can be taken into account.
but data on the migration of schools, the water temperature and pollution also help to strike a better balance between the needs of fisheries on the one hand and the survival of certain fish species on the other.
the added value is also great for a number of other major european projects, such as gmis, as inspire can be the supplier of data needed to set up an operational global information system for environmental and safety monitoring within gmis.
in the second reading report, as we are discussing it today, the committee on the environment has again emphasized some elements which we consider very important but which were deleted in the common position.
the committee on environmental management also considers that intellectual property rights of public authorities cannot be an argument for refusing access to environmental data.
that is why the compromise amendment adopted in the committee on industry, research and energy on the initiative of mrs gutiérrez, which i co-signed and which you support, calls for continuing what has been done with the sixth framework programme, namely a case-by-case analysis which is essential to achieving a level of excellence in a promising research sector for the future.
parliament is very concerned about the environment and energy and so these are the thematic priorities we want to support more.
another sensitive area for europe is energy and the various scenarios envisaged to get out of the oil age today, with a budget of 2 billion 385 million euro, adopted by the committee on industry, which gives priority to renewable energies.
since they are mostly generic in nature, they can be used in any kind of health threat and they are therefore a good investment on the part of the member states and the community that will not go to waste.
we should all pray that they do go to waste, that we do not have a health crisis and will never actually need to use them, but nevertheless it is a good investment in preparedness, both for natural pandemics and for bioterrorism.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the energy aspects, the need for further democratization in russia and the aspects of international politics have already been mentioned.
the dialogue between the european union and russia must therefore be based on the need to improve respect for human rights, transparency in energy policy, the fight against corruption and the need to reduce centralism in general.
the honourable member can rest assured that the commission is investigating this case very carefully – like all other cases, by the way – in order to assess the impact of this operation on the european energy sector, and in particular in belgium and in france, where those parties have a very important market position.
in any case, we are very much aware that we are talking about an eventual merger that will create one of the largest european energy companies.
the alde group also believes that eu money should be used to promote sustainability in coastal fishing, for example by reducing fuel consumption, and not to increase capacity.
we will have to invest a lot of time and energy in this over the next few months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to add the topic of hydrogen and fuel cells to the activities on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
our work has highlighted the need to support sustainable urban development in our regions, as jean-marie beaupuy has just mentioned.
these batteries contain heavy metals (mercury, lead, cadmium) which are harmful to the environment and human health.
among the proposals put forward was the priority to include emissions from the aviation and shipping sectors in future climate protection plans.
it is in this sense that i welcome the ambitious vote today on the lucas report which provides for a whole series of measures to combat the environmental impacts of aviation, and in particular the end of the vat exemption on aviation fuel.
the current situation is worrying: emissions from aviation are destroying a quarter of the poor results achieved in the fight against greenhouse gases.
i want to be clear: it is not a question of taxing everything, but of putting an end to a distortion which does not provide sufficient incentives for the aviation sector to invest in new technologies, and whose first victim is our environment.
global warming is the major challenge of the 21st century, europe must continue to lead by example!
if we consider - and i am not the first to do so - that the car is a sustainable development for the 21st century, especially for our european cities, it is nevertheless confusing to note that, given that the sustainable car for the next 25 years will have to have a hybrid engine, like the toyota prius, that european manufacturers are still lagging behind in this area.
other people who appeared before the committee, such as high representative javier solana, were so predictably unremarkable that their appearance was a waste of time for everyone.
it is not for nothing that it was almost unanimously supported by my colleagues in the committee on the environment, i might say, and we hope that this report, which will be supported by an overwhelming majority in this parliament tomorrow, will put the necessary pressure on the commission to take the necessary initiatives in accordance with its powers, because it is clear that there is still much to be improved in the area of mental health care in the european union.
china needs us, for example, when it comes to the environment.
the same applies to energy.
mr president, firstly i should like to express my thanks to the rapporteur mrs fraga estévez and the committee on fisheries and to mrs ries and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for a constructive report on a community approach to eco-labelling for fisheries products.
the commission indeed attaches great importance to the development of a consistent policy on eco-labelling and to a consistent integration of environmental concerns into the common fisheries policy.
together with other actions proposed by the commission, such as the implementation of sustainability which leads to sustainable yields, or the promotion of more environment-friendly fishing methods, i see eco-labelling as a complementary tool for a more environment-friendly fisheries policy.
i would like to thank mr morillon for his description of eco-labelling as a positive sanction supporting sustainable behaviour.
eco-labelling is a relatively new approach in the context of sustainable fisheries management.
i see these as the prerequisites that will help us make the most of eco-labelling schemes and that will contribute to the sustainability of fisheries.
the definition of the notion of sustainability is at the heart of the debate.
with regard to amendments 1 and 2, the commission believes that eco-labelling is a tool that will contribute to a more sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and improve the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
the overall objective is to encourage the sector to adopt fishing methods that are more economically, socially and environmentally sustainable.
the committee on the environment has thus emphasized its priorities in its opinion.
in this respect, a visit to the fish department of a supermarket is quite telling, i did it myself: "protect the sea", "support sustainable fishing", "fish ecologically", etc.
the gross and deliberate use of violence by israel, in particular the bombing of civilian targets, the use of illegal weapons, the widespread destruction of civilian infrastructure and the serious pollution of coastal areas, as well as the indiscriminate rocket attacks by hezbollah, deserve our condemnation.
air pollution is a major public health concern.
the number of preventable respiratory diseases should prompt legislators to send a simple message: clean air for europe requires drastic pollution standards.
i regret that on a major citizen issue, the impact of pollution on human health, my colleagues have lacked ambition, aimed above all at not affecting certain industrial sectors.
i hope that on second reading the european parliament will correct its tone, be more receptive to the arguments of environmental health specialists and avoid the pitfall of regulations setting less stringent standards than those currently in force.
however, there is ample scientific evidence that fine dust pollution causes some 3.6 million years of life lost.
by 2020, air pollution caused by ozone and fine particulate matter will cost europe between eur 189 and 609 billion annually!
whether it is iran, iraq, the middle east in general, the dialogue between civilizations or the energy crisis, turkey always appears as a key country, an indispensable asset for europe.
it is also essential to provide clear answers to citizens who are concerned about the potential toxicity of nanoparticles to the environment, the food chain and the body.
the draft regulation now includes a section on nature and biodiversity.
the opinion of the directorate-general for the environment is always sought before the adoption of strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes for the structural funds, as well as rural development programmes submitted by member states.
unfortunately, the outcome of the informal meetings between parliament, the council and the commission following the vote in the committee on the environment on 14 september did not allow us to make any significant progress towards reaching an agreement on the transfer of management responsibilities.
i mean - we have already talked a lot about this - the delegation of environmental policies to the member states, up to 80% of the life+ budget.
i am therefore also sorry, as is our rapporteur, that in our informal exchanges with the finnish presidency, the latter has not made a strong gesture in the direction of the concerns of the citizens for a better environment and a better quality of life.
clearly, this institutional disagreement must be resolved and, in the meantime, the principle of continuity of financing community environmental policy must of course prevail: that is the aim of our amendment no 32. like my colleagues, i therefore wonder about this 'blank cheque' offered on a silver platter to the member states.
why should we renationalize what europe as such does very well, albeit with very few resources, as has already been said, namely the protection of biodiversity and rare species?
i will mention some of the successes of the nature, environment and third countries strands since life was set up in 1992. in my own country, belgium, no less than 120 projects for the protection of biodiversity have been co-financed by the european union.
the commission also unveiled last thursday 75 environmental projects which will receive eu support, a total of €136 million from the life programme, and, returning to belgium, i welcome the fact that the restoration of the hautes fagnes plateau in the beautiful ardennes region, covering more than 4 500 hectares, is among the projects selected.
i hope so, because in defending europe's environment we are also concerned about the welfare and health of future generations and i am sure that europe has everything to gain, as i have stressed, from investing itself as such in this fight to preserve nature and biodiversity.
we would have liked to have seen more consideration given to this, for example, to the suckler cow premium, which is vital in less-favoured areas, to aid for energy crops and to pilot projects on energy efficiency.
i would therefore like to congratulate you, mr president, on the outcome of the informal summit and i would also like to congratulate you on the consensus you have been able to build, both on energy policy and on russia.
president putin has not been persuaded to sign the energy agreement which is to allow better access to russian gas and oil fields.
the lack of political unity is apparently as structural as our dependence on russian energy sources.
what has now been approved by parliament does not change the problem at its root and is therefore just another waste of money.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
in january 2005, the european parliament approved my report on the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010 by a very large majority.
i would like to give an example of the subject on which my group has probably worked most during the last two and a half years, namely climate, energy and transport.
we have submitted to your office and those of your colleagues an energy policy scenario which would enable us to achieve a 30% reduction in co2 and greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. mr barroso, the european union must fulfil its commitments under the kyoto protocol, but at present it is not doing so.
in the field of renewable energy, we believe that the commission should propose sectoral targets and not just general targets.
in the field of energy efficiency we expect the commission to propose a revision of the building directive to cover all buildings and as mrs grossetête has said, you know very well that this is also a creator of economic activity!
in other words, in the area of climate, energy and transport, we must reduce emissions, we must reduce dependence on energy imports and we must reduce risks.
the continuation of our fight against nuclear energy is part of this concern.
because i still think that's our job as legislators: the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
unexploded cluster ammunition represents a threat to human security and sustainable development.
they contribute to the sustainability of our development policies.
this is conducive to overlap and waste and, worst of all, also leads to outright competition between, for instance, the council’s special envoys and the commission’s delegations.
first of all, i would like to express my very serious concern about the consequences that the implementation of this plan may have for several thousand workers and their families and for the economic and social environment of the company.
restructuring is sometimes necessary to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of firms and, ultimately, employment.
these reference guidelines state that the existence of a quality social dialogue in a climate of trust and a positive attitude towards change are important factors in avoiding or limiting negative social consequences.
ladies and gentlemen, i firmly believe in the future of the european automobile industry, but then we must make the maximum effort and, i repeat, the president, on energy-efficient and 100% environmentally friendly cars.
it is high time that we all realised that our material prosperity and employment will not be taken for granted, that international competition is only increasing and that we must really fight for every individual job with more flexibility, lower burdens and an entrepreneurial-friendly climate.
to make democracy sustainable, we need well-functioning democratic political parties, so that debate can take place not only among the parties but also with the public.
i am ashamed too of the end of the non-receipt, and i use a euphemism, of the european bodies opposed to the two million doctors, the bodies and the heads of the scientific world who constantly warn us about this silent pandemic, created, among other things, by chemical pollution.
so, on wednesday, 13 december, our meeting with the people's europe will be too little, too late, and all those who, like me, here, are betting on combining health and sustainable employment instead of continuing to oppose them in a totally sterile and outdated way, will have today only a minute or two to express their disappointment.
a balance must be struck between the desire to improve the protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the preservation of competitiveness and the avoidance of unnecessary administrative burdens on the other.
so a mineral or vegetable protein does not have the same virtues depending on its origin and it is because of the absence of this information that we have found in the food the waste oils that led to the all too famous bse crisis, for example.
the european environment agency says the situation is serious: 87% of groundwater in agricultural areas does not meet eu standards for the presence of nitrates and most member states report the risk of pollution by pesticides.
the result of the first reading was a major ecological disappointment.
the proposed regulation is a major step towards improving the environmental performance of motor vehicles.
therefore, this regulation deals first with particulate matter emissions and with the emission of nitrogen oxides.
for petrol-engined vehicles, more stringent limit values have been set than for diesel vehicles, as lower emissions are easier and cheaper to achieve for petrol-engined vehicles than for diesel engines.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of new vehicles is not only limited to their new state, but also extends over their entire lifetime.
fourthly, i think it is important that a consensus has been reached on the question of financial incentives, a package of two emission levels, as in euro 3 and euro 4 and now again in euro 5 and euro 6. this has environmental and technological benefits if both stages are actually implemented as stages.
the compulsory installation of soot filters on diesel cars in particular is reducing fine dust emissions by 80%, which is a figure that should be welcomed by everyone.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented.
one more thing: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not based on the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
madam president, i am speaking in my capacity as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment on mr seppänen's report.
the committee on the environment broadly welcomes the report drawn up by the committee on industry.