so tonight we are concluding the debate on two very important directives which will undoubtedly improve the environment and protect the health of european citizens.
that is why i think we should not waste any more time.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
the crisis in iran's relations with the west, the continuing political instability in iraq, the crisis in lebanon-syria relations, which must be handled with particular care, and of course the situation in the region of israel and palestine, all intensify our concern and create a rather discouraging climate.
but if the european commission wants to develop a competitive european economy, it would do well to be careful not to destroy the european welfare state in the process, not to destroy the rights of workers or, at least, not to create an environment favourable to companies to destroy them.
after mercury changes in the environment to methylmercury, the most toxic form, it readily crosses the blood-brain barrier and can cause severe neuronal damage.
eu action, as well as international commitment, is necessary for the protection of human health and the environment.
in particular, the strategy deals with matters such as: implementing an effective export ban and safe storage; introducing emission limit values for mercury from combustion plants, and other related activities; banning mercury in measuring and control equipment where possible; collecting and treating mercury waste; ensuring the provision of sufficient information and the monitoring of vulnerable population groups; and supporting and promoting international concerted action for dealing with the mercury threat.
it will deal with such important issues as the role of regional integration in the promotion of peace and security, the problematic issue of energy in the acp countries and the social and environmental aspects of fisheries in developing countries.
such animals are able to metabolise the proteins contained in fishmeal and use them for their structural and energy needs.
the agreement also lacks the necessary priorities to address the economic, social and environmental challenges of an enlarged european union.
it is equally important that the european union shoulders the heavy political responsibilities it has to bear in tolerating the causes of the severe climate changes of recent decades.
it is not possible to grant it immunity just because it is a strategic partner, for example in energy matters.
mr president, every summer forest fires bring devastation to the environment and tragedy to our citizens.
furthermore, why are so many significant matters, such as the assessment of the chemical studies of groundwater and the definition of the criteria for the reversal of rising concentration of pollutants, left to the discretion of the member state, knowing full well that the action of some of these states will be wholly insufficient to combat the alarming rise of groundwater chemical pollution?
an attempt is made in this report to transform the common position into a worthwhile piece of legislation, including areas such as the incorporation of the emissions-related approach, ensuring the clarity of the concepts employed, and dissolving the confusion caused by the hazy relationship between the various objectives in connection with the nitrates directive, the water framework directive and the groundwater daughter directive.
however, i would first of all like to thank all the rapporteurs from all the political groups for their valuable comments and help and all the colleagues for the amendments they tabled during the debate on my report in the committee on the environment.
finally, i should like to point out that i supported most of the amendments tabled by my colleagues after the debate on my report in the committee on the environment.
i would like to repeat what i said to the committee on the environment when we met here, namely that the member states must bear in mind that if a pandemic breaks out, their entire budget will not reach them.
mr president, on behalf of the group of the european united left/nordic green left, i would like to express our disappointment and dissatisfaction at the lack of progress in developing and monitoring the strategy for sustainable development.
we agree that the sustainable development strategy must include three central and interrelated objectives, which have not only environmental but also social and economic aspects.
nevertheless, the council and the commission seem to be once again placing more emphasis on promoting the objectives of the lisbon strategy than on its environmental and social aspects in terms of sustainable development.
unfortunately, the lisbon strategy is mainly, if not exclusively, about economic competitiveness and the creation of temporary jobs, with environmental objectives playing a secondary or even negligible role.
on the contrary, the sustainable development strategy should promote environmental and social objectives rather than economic sustainability.
i would like to stress that, given that a large proportion of the european population suffers from serious economic and social problems such as poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, and that the most deprived social strata often suffer the worst social and environmental conditions, including poor housing and health, the commission's framework for action to review the sustainable development strategy is too cautious and weak.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i think we all agree that the dangerous trend of increasing aviation emissions has to be checked.
in my view, the simple, common sense options for a solution offering a reduction in aviation emissions are the following.
the third option is the introduction and promotion of aviation fuels which have less impact on the environment.
the fourth option would be the phasing-out of old inefficient aircraft, some of which cause two or three times as much damage to the environment as more modern aircraft.
the amendments submitted in this report undoubtedly significantly improve the commission’s latest proposal and certainly constitute an important improvement to the original directive on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste.
the exact definition of nuclear waste and nuclear spent fuel is still not entirely clear, so that some nuclear waste may, depending on its intended use, sometimes be regarded as nuclear spent fuel and vice versa.
without ensuring equal opportunities for access to employment, public education and public health care, in an environment that does not distinguish between immigrants and non-immigrants, it is impossible for all citizens of europe, regardless of their origin, to reap the benefits of a socially and economically developed area.
the report proposes the creation of two funds - recommendation 15 - the first to finance co-development, the second to provide a mechanism to guarantee the sustainability of micro-projects.
the first projects envisaged for implementation encompass, inter alia, actions in the field of solid waste, energy, local infrastructure, business support and other very concrete measures.
mr president, commissioner, although the factors of air pollution are difficult to detect, they do not cease to endanger our health.
that work will cover the three key areas of genetics, environment and lifestyle.
this has resulted in the irreversible contamination of the environment and of both animals and humans.
mr president, commissioner, climate change is no longer speculation, it is a fact.
in my view at least, the following two points must be included in our nairobi strategy: firstly, strict emission reduction targets must be set and severe penalties must be envisaged and implemented for those who fail to meet them; secondly, the international community must isolate those countries that have not signed the relevant conventions and are not willing to cooperate in the joint fight against climate change.
here i am referring particularly, of course, to the united states, which alone is responsible for one third of global carbon dioxide emissions.
the marine environment, a vital and precious source of life, is threatened every day.
marine pollution, climate change, shipping and coastal construction continue to threaten the marine environment and have a negative impact on human health.
the directive, which aims to fill in the gaps in environmental policy, is an important step towards improving the health and recovery of the seas.
it is important to support amendments which require member states to achieve good environmental status, which recognise the threats to the marine environment and which seek the shortest possible timeframe for the implementation of the directive.
in addition, member states' actions should be based on the precautionary principle, an ecosystem-based approach, while taking into account relevant assessments carried out under existing european legislation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the pollution of the seas and the oceans, and that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the pollution of the seas and oceans.
mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs lienemann and mr kušķis on their excellent reports which, despite the view of some scottish colleagues, have been wisely strengthened by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
european marine waters, as indeed international waters, have often become the dustbin for waste of varying quantities and levels of toxicity.
in many instances that has resulted in unprecedented environmental damage.
it is high time for the eu to intervene decisively in order to protect our marine environment.
after all, the protection of our marine environment is an essential element in safeguarding our own survival on this planet.
i also want to note the very helpful assistance of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as well as that of the commission and the council in formulating a small number of necessary final compromise amendments.
let us consider taking the brave step of beginning to treat drug abuse victims by providing them with their required drug in a controlled medical environment, free of charge, free of complications, free of police and the law and free of crime.
if you consider human security – that is, freedom from want and freedom from fear – as the basis for human dignity, then no one else has done more than us to help the palestinians with the basic services of health and energy and to at least maintain those basic services under very difficult circumstances through the temporary international mechanism and additional measures.