i would therefore like to call again on the european commission and the european council to prepare a proposal for a common energy policy as a matter of urgency, which would also be linked to the common foreign and security policy.
written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the commission statement on climate change.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission has been working on a new proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
is the commission aware that the services directive is a key opportunity to establish clear conditions, a clear right to reimbursement of non-acute healthcare for citizens of twenty-five countries without breaching subsidiarity, and that it is no longer sustainable for the european court of justice to continue to guarantee and interpret this right, or even that this could be ensured by the continuing discussion of a high representative group which has no legislative power and cannot provide legal certainty?
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days and weeks there has been a lot of talk about europe's energy dependence on external sources.
among others, the objective of securing the supply of energy resources to the countries of the european union.
we all know that, for security, energy, economic, trade and even social, cultural and political reasons, there are already countries with which we have and need special relations, yet they will never – in the foreseeable future – become members of the eu.
high social and environmental standards are the godlike product of a european civilization that takes responsibility for the sustainable development of this planet.
it accurately maps the current reality of the use of renewable energy sources for heating and cooling.
on the other hand, the european parliament has repeatedly stated the need for greater use of renewable resources, and has made some good decisions and recommendations, but to be honest, not much has changed.
the need for renewable energy is more talked about by politicians than by the people who actually make the most decisions about it, the ordinary citizens.
this is probably because member states are failing to create the right conditions for a larger share of these energies and to convince people of the benefits of renewable sources.
therefore, as the report states, for example, northern denmark uses more solar energy than southern italy.
but they'll also understand us when renewable resources are in their favor.
the price of these energies is also important, and the creation of conditions for the use of renewable sources is linked to this.
the current case from us in the czech republic is not primarily about renewable energy, but it's more specific.
so creating the conditions is as important as making sensible decisions and applying all the elements of the energy mix and promoting energy savings.
so that we don't end up like the night butterflies in the quest for energy, who often find death in their desire to be as close to light and warmth as possible.
mr president, commissioner, when we talk about heating and cooling, we are talking about 49% of the energy consumption of our continent.
i believe that any responsible energy policy must take into account the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions.
i firmly believe that, alongside nuclear power, which is primarily used to generate electricity, it is the use of renewable energy for heating and cooling that will lead us to a future with lower carbon emissions.
the less fossil fuels are used for this purpose, the better not only in terms of global climate change, but also in terms of reducing dependence on imports from outside europe.
moreover, the use of renewable resources has a mostly positive impact on the rural economy, bringing new resources and, with them, new jobs.
the report, which the rapporteur is presenting after a thorough analysis and discussion, deals with the whole range of strategic measures that need to be implemented in order to overcome the barriers to greater use of renewable resources.
however, from the point of view of the czech member of parliament, i have to say that after the accession to the european union, the position of renewable sources on the market has deteriorated, as the forced inclusion of e.g.
at the same time, the price of energy that could be replaced by renewable sources is rising in our domestic market, but it is precisely for price reasons that people are turning to cheaper sources, which in many cases is low-quality brown coal.
i therefore believe that the call to the commission and the council to review the sixth council directive allowing the use of a lower vat rate for renewable energy sources is very urgent.
i fully support the principles on which this strategy is based, in particular the recognition of the multifunctional nature of the forest and its importance for the economy, quality of life, environmental protection and the conservation of biodiversity.
the report shows in many places that forestry needs to be seen in the context of other common policies, such as environmental protection or energy.
the new programming period is a unique opportunity to refocus support from the new rural development fund on economic growth, employment and sustainability.
mr president, i would like to commend the european commission for the action it took last week, the publication of the green paper on energy.
europe is becoming more and more dependent on imports, and it appears that we will have to tackle energy problems together.
we will have to complete the liberalisation of the internal market, for example, and we will also have to work together on energy saving and the development of alternative sources, including nuclear energy.
we will also have to work together to ensure the security of energy imports.
the end of this debate should be the creation of a genuine common energy policy in europe.
if we continue to regulate further, instead of opening up the business environment and the labour and services markets, we will not be supporting the development of the european union's economy, but on the contrary we will be stagnating it further.
consider how our relationship to poverty has changed from the past in developed countries, in an environment of glittering wealth and prosperity, lower living standards have come to be seen as something degrading.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) (com (2007) 0263 final).
but i am also concerned about the effectiveness of some of the regulations that we are taking lightly because they appear to be a major contribution to protecting health and the environment.
it is also up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to insist that every measure, whether to protect health or the environment, be accompanied by an impact assessment.
in these, the european council recognises the crucial importance of creating a more favourable business environment, highlights smes as the backbone of the european economy and speaks of the need to support them and encourage citizens to be entrepreneurs, but unfortunately only on paper.
i expected politicians to find the courage to support the commission's original proposal on services in the internal market, in particular the country of origin principle, and thus give the council a clear signal that it is serious about developing the business environment.
ladies and gentlemen, despite all the horror and anxiety that the name chernobyl still evokes, i think we must admit frankly that the european union cannot do without nuclear energy.
ladies and gentlemen, let us be realistic and admit that the majority of the citizens of the european union will not be drawing energy from biomass and wind farms, but all citizens will want to light, heat, produce, want to live, simply want to consume.
i am convinced that nuclear energy is essential to the european union's ability to maintain both its economic performance and its social standard.
i believe that asian and american competitors who are betting on the use of nuclear energy cannot compete with greenpeace happening or windmills.
a few moments ago, experts at euronews confirmed that nuclear energy is the best solution to limit global warming.
this affects lifestyle, a healthy environment, and trust in education and medical expertise.
i can understand the fanatical anti-nuclear energy.
i understand that their views will not change and they are not interested in the energy situation in the balkans.
so after the power plant is shut down, italy will be more dependent on imports from france and other countries, and where will greece get the missing energy?
he can buy the carbon credits.
or does the european commission have another ecological solution that is also realistic?
as regards the treaty itself, i believe that an acceptable platform has been created for bringing together the countries not yet members of the union in the region on the basis of energy issues with a view to achieving their compatibility with the european union.
the interconnection of energy markets will then undoubtedly also have an impact on the security of energy supply both in the region of south-east europe and throughout the union.
on the other hand, although i do not share the optimism that interconnection will provide people with cheaper energy, at least in the czech republic this has not happened.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the age of climate change the risk of natural disasters is increasing year by year.
i am convinced that the main areas of aid are those at high risk and that it is necessary to protect the environment and conserve natural resources.
there is no doubt that we have a set of measures and themes that can contribute to greater energy efficiency.
so i think that if we don't support good intentions and proclaim sufficient funding for r&d and in the meantime behave rather the opposite then the energy efficiency targets may be more of a wishful thinking for us.
an example for all to see: if we do not provide enough funding for the galileo project, we will not achieve greater energy efficiency in the future, for example in transport, which is undoubtedly one of the most energy-intensive sectors.
few european minorities face as much prejudice and misunderstanding as the roma, and few integration of national minorities into the majority environment brings as many problems.
however, such initiatives need to be developed, based on practical and sustainable projects that continue beyond 2008. for these reasons, i consider the report we have just adopted to be a step in the right direction.
these damages are mainly caused by a reduction in the natural water-holding capacity of the river basin and by insensitive interventions of civilization such as flood control, building and management in floodplains, reduction of the area of natural floodplains into the environment.
climate change, with increased drought periods and more intense local precipitation, also plays a major role.
we are deciding on europe's energy independence in the future.
the next item is the report by mr adamos adamou, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on planning for the preparedness and response to a flu pandemic in the european community (2006/2062 (ini)) (a6-0176/2006).
draft report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
first of all, i welcome the amendments adopted and approved by the committee on the environment, particularly those relating to closer cooperation between the member states of the union.
i consider the extension of the reflection period on the current constitution a mockery of the citizens and the campaign for its revival a waste of their money.
the qualification requirements for the crew, the infrastructure of the different modes of transport, the fuel or energy required for the propulsion units and the security, the uniform operating rules of the mode of transport, the environmental impact and their assessment aspects are really many.
therefore, even when introducing carbon dioxide emission allowances in aviation, it is necessary to require that article 32 of the draft resolution, within the meaning of the kyoto protocol, be met, i.e.
that there is no increase in emissions above the level in the base year, for all operators.
it will therefore certainly continue to set an example in reducing emissions and in other areas.
i therefore warmly recommend, on behalf of the gue/ngl club, that all members support the report on the reduction of the impact of aviation on climate change, including our amendment.
finally, a note on a significant source of emissions, these are military flights and helicopter flights, both surveillance and guard flights.
and those social housing projects that have a direct relationship to the environment will become a recognizable cost to the funds.
air transport has undergone a rapid development over the last 40 years, leading to a reduction in emissions and noise of more than 40%.
however, some regulations on emissions, flight time limits and administration are inadequate and need to be placed in the overall context.
the rapporteur is the committee on industry, research and energy.
it is the influence of environment, work and family, the areas that affect mental health and where prevention could be effective, that should be the focus of our attention and action plans.
women are more likely to seek medical care, are more likely to take medications that they cannot tolerate, and are more likely to be exposed to unwanted pressures in their environment that can result in mental disorders.
however, i am not sure that the open borders, the large migration and the problems of law enforcement, the specific difficulties in foreign trade and the state of energy supply close to collapse are at least partially acceptable for a state aspiring to conclude an association agreement with the european union.
first of all, there are environmental issues.
perhaps environmental protection and so-called green technology could be the future areas of investment for european union companies in china.
it is unacceptable that this complex research programme should be dismantled, with the assumption that investment can only be made in areas where human and environmental exposure is excluded.
they also have major implications for the energy sector.
this also means that transport machinery can be designed to be less energy intensive.
the material and energy requirements of nanotechnology can be significantly reduced.
i would like to thank not only commissioners potočnik and verheugen for their cooperation in this context, but also my distinguished colleagues from the committee on industry, research and energy and the directorate-general for industry, mr renz tomellini, who is a specialist in this field.
no wonder european companies are shifting production to asia, where they can take advantage of low social and environmental standards to sell cheap but low-quality shoes, textiles, electronics, and other goods at huge margins to europeans, who then lose their jobs at home.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to the fundamental problem facing the czech republic in drawing on the cohesion fund for the modernisation of water and waste management.
people need to be able to respond more quickly to developments in their environment, and individual european training programmes should enable them to do so.
i regret to say that the lahti summit represents a missed opportunity both in the european union's relations with russia and in the energy understanding between the member states.
although european politicians have shown, under pressure from the media, that they are aware of the need to speak with one voice on energy issues, i fear that this is an apparent unity and that there is still no real consensus on the content of the energy policy.
the fact that some eu countries prefer to negotiate their energy security in a bilateral framework, regardless of the european union as a whole, is evidence of this.
i would like to point out that the energy issue is not only ecological or economic, but above all geostrategic.
europe is dependent on external energy sources.
failure to align our interests and our approach will weaken our bargaining position in the global energy market, deepen our vulnerability and seriously undermine the authority of us europeans as foreign policy actors.
i would therefore like to call on the council and the commission to take concrete steps to prepare and implement a european energy strategy, which is a possible way out of this situation and would lay the foundations for a common energy policy of the european union.
a strategy that would define our energy objectives and the means to achieve them, set out clearly the mechanism for joint decision-making on energy projects and for communication within and outside the european union, and strengthen the element of solidarity on energy issues.
i am convinced that the energy question will be the key test of the accessibility of the european union.
the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30.
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the export of toxic waste to africa, the question for oral answer to the council on combating environmental crime, crime and sanctions by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0067/2006 - b6-0438/2006) and the question for oral answer to the commission on combating environmental crime, crime and sanctions by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0068/2006 - b6-0439/2006).
less well known is that success in this heavily islamic environment has been achieved mainly through the involvement of women.
we will not impose the eu's energy deal on russia if we prefer the interest of european companies to a share of the profits from russian energy supplies, and we will not reconcile the eu's mutually beneficial and much-needed relations with russia if, for example, the seats of the eu's members of parliament are literally empty during official negotiations between the eu and russian parliamentary delegations.
we have a duty to strive to raise environmental, safety and social standards also in manufacturing in third countries, not just in the union.
otherwise, the conclusions are just a waste of paper.
as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i am convinced that the principle of subsidiarity is the main principle for european energy policy-making, and that the specific decisions on the energy mix and the preferences for renewable or nuclear energy must always be taken at member state level, taking into account the relevant geographical, climatic and economic conditions of the region.
it is also important to remember that the cheapest energy is the energy we do not have to produce.
energy conservation is therefore the way forward.
in this context, cities, which account for more than 70% of energy consumption, have a great potential, and the european commission must therefore start a real dialogue on this subject, in particular with cities, but also with other local authorities and their associations.