the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss the results of the successful montreal conference on climate change held in december.
in montreal, in addition to the 11th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, we also had the first meeting of the states that have ratified the kyoto protocol.
it underlines the importance that both our institutions attach to tackling the challenge of climate change and the role of the multilateral process in this process.
the outcome of the montreal conference is an important step forward for the multilateral climate negotiations.
the kyoto protocol is now fully implemented, and the agreement on the montreal action plan paves the way for future international cooperation on climate change.
this will, inter alia, provide greater certainty for the european carbon market and the private sector.
firstly, we agreed to launch two rounds of formal dialogue on the future climate change response system.
the five-year work programme on adaptation includes a full range of activities, including work aimed at complementing our knowledge of the impacts of climate change and the problems it creates.
the many positive reactions i have received strengthen my conviction that the european union's response to the climate challenge can not only be the most efficient and economically viable, but also provide a competitive advantage for european businesses.
the strong interest in the emissions trading system we have put in place makes it clear that we are an example to be followed.
the european union has taken a leading role internationally in the fight against climate change.
the current second phase of the european climate change programme will help identify the best measures.
i would also like to mention the debate within the european union on climate change.
the european union should now engage with all parties, in particular those with large emissions such as the united states and emerging economies, in a constructive dialogue to explore participation in the future international climate change regime.
i believe that montreal marks a new phase in international cooperation to tackle climate change.
climate change is an urgent need and affects us all.
we will need drastic cuts in greenhouse gas emissions in order to stabilize, and then reduce, the concentrations of these gases in our planet's atmosphere.
that is why this year, in the second phase of the european climate change programme, we will be discussing new initiatives to strengthen our climate policy.
this second european climate change programme will include a comprehensive review of the first phase of climate policies, including the european union's emissions trading system, action on carbon capture and storage, aviation and other transport and other issues.
on the basis of this review, i will propose new initiatives to strengthen our climate policy depending on the outcome of this stakeholder consultation process.
i fully agree that climate change is one of the most serious problems, if not the most serious problem, facing the world today.
and of course for the european commission, and for me in particular, climate change, as i have emphasized on many occasions, is one of the main priorities.
we have of course been fighting all this time to be able to achieve the objectives we set ourselves at the beginning of the year with the communication we made, which the european parliament adopted and made the relevant recommendations, winning the battle against climate change.
it shows how important the contribution of the european union has been both in this statement and in the various interim bilateral meetings we have had with countries such as india, china and other rapidly developing countries - mexico, brazil - which are countries that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide, and in the climate of confidence that we have cultivated all this time to achieve this success.
and i agree that we're already experiencing climate change today.
we're already at 0.7 degrees celsius of warming, and a lot of the things we're seeing today are due to climate change.
as mentioned earlier, we see various weather phenomena, such as hurricanes, prolonged droughts or floods in other parts of the world, that are part of the predictions of scientists about climate change.
each of these events may not be directly linked or we may not be able to directly link them to climate change, but they are within the overall forecast of scientists.
and of course, the phenomenon that we're seeing today, the melting of glaciers, both in the alps and in the arctic circle, the possible change in the course of the mexican current, the rise in sea level and a host of other phenomena, will result in significant impacts on the lives, health, environment, ecosystems of all of humanity, and much greater impacts in those very poor countries that don't have the means to deal with these consequences.
so we do have a great responsibility, a great duty, to deal with climate change.
we are making a sincere effort and hope to persuade countries which are not willing to cooperate - such as the united states, which we mentioned earlier and which currently emits more carbon dioxide than any other country - to follow this path.
we are also calling for the developing countries to contribute in their own way, in accordance with the united nations principle of common but differentiated participation in the fight against global warming.
of course, all this should be done in full compliance with the regulations in force on the environment, maritime safety and security, but especially on employment and social security.
we have introduced legislation to this end, for example the directive on port waste facilities of november 2000. if the port package belongs anywhere, it belongs in the port waste facilities, the waste disposal facilities of the ports; it's right there.
however, given the far-reaching implications for the whole transport sector, the environment, competition and the internal market, i would urge that the question of whether aviation policy should be excluded from the codecision procedure be reconsidered.
with some partners failing to offer sufficient guarantees for an efficient and fair trading environment, regulatory convergence is a priority.
in addition to competition, we must be vigilant about full respect for social and environmental standards.
a united europe is much more capable of changing certain standards, of moving them towards higher quality, both in the environmental and social dimensions.
(the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the security of energy supplies, and in particular gas supplies.
we must help ukraine, particularly in its energy policy, to break away from its dependence on russia, so that the country can develop positively.
gas or oil - which was more hotly debated during the iraq war - are raw materials that we use all over europe - let me put it mildly - to waste.
resource productivity and energy efficiency are objectives we must pursue, and then we will be less dependent.
those who think that the use of nuclear energy is the right answer to the shortage or the finiteness of gas should seriously explain how they intend to proceed.
what do you want to do with the waste that has been produced in europe for decades?
at the moment, there is a disaster in the field of nuclear waste disposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy.
i believe that the course of the discussion between ukraine and russia has clearly shown that europe, and not just the european union, needs a modern, new overall energy policy.
i very much welcome the commissioner's announcement that he is going to present a green paper, although i hope, of course, that the green paper will not contain such old slogans as negotiating codes of conduct for supplying and transit countries, new pipelines or even nuclear energy.
i believe that, as is already the case in many countries, we must rely on other sources of energy such as biomass, solar, wind, water, geothermal and combined heat and power, on the one hand, and on energy conservation, energy efficiency and also the reduction of subsidies for the old fossil fuels.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
the commission estimates that this dependence will increase from just under 50% at present to around 2/3 by 2030. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure.
when, if not now, will we discuss a stronger common european energy policy?
the gas problem, russia, ukraine, the supply problem, but also oil prices, climate change and many other things are reasons to think more strongly in this direction.
it is interesting to note that russia has not ratified the energy charter and therefore the dispute settlement procedure provided for therein cannot be applied.
so clearly priority for energy efficiency, for renewable energy, but also the awareness that we have to deal with the import of gas in different ways even more than before.
madam president, i wish to begin by thanking parliament for this debate, which clearly indicates there is general support for developments towards a common eu energy policy that respects subsidiarity.
the situation today is definitely more complex than it was then, and will probably have longer-lasting consequences in the energy area than was the case 30 years ago.
on energy efficiency, we have a building directive entering into force which should be applied vigorously.
the same applies to combined heat and power, and renewable energies: we have legal instruments and we should apply them.
the same is true for renewable energy.
unfortunately, it is true that energy issues have been neglected.
a memorandum of understanding with ukraine on the implementation of energy policy was signed only this year during the summit.
therefore, we really need to help not only to deal with external supply issues but also with energy consumption, because the energy intensity in those countries, and energy losses, are tremendous, and no country could bear the energy costs arising from that situation.
as commissioner for agriculture and rural development, i am fully aware of the social, economic and environmental relevance of the sugar sector, both inside and outside the community.
the political blackmailing of ukraine by russia in the gas supply sector shows that we must take all the opportunities to make the european union a little more independent in the energy sector.
agriculture in europe is able to produce energy in the form of biomass on agricultural land that is no longer used for food production.
the commission and the council are called upon to support economically viable energy production with start-up funding from the restructuring fund.
it is unacceptable that farmers should receive only 10% and that there should be no need to draw up farm and regional development plans which take account of social and environmental criteria and of the workforce.
it's a waste of time.
progress in the eu-ukraine relationship could be registered on economic integration; granting of market economy status by the eu to ukraine; cooperation in the key sectors of energy and transport; a memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation; justice and home affairs; the opening of visa facilitation negotiations in parallel to negotiations on a readmission agreement; as well as in the area of foreign and security policy, namely, the launching of the eu border assistance mission on the transnistrian segment of the ukraine-moldova border.
however, important steps remain to be taken by ukraine in the implementation of the action plan, in areas such as the rule of law and in particular on the economic side: the fight against corruption; adopting relevant legislation for wto accession; and improving the business climate.
secondly, what is the commission doing in practice to improve transport links between the european union and ukraine and to develop common infrastructure concepts that will strengthen ukraine's connections with the west in terms of energy and transport?
the commission should follow the committee on agriculture and rural development in this respect and consider how much more per hectare funding could be given to renewable raw materials.
i would also like to say that i believe it is absolutely essential that environmental ngos have access to courts at european level so that, in case of doubt, the actual implementation of european legislation on the ground can be verified.
i would like to thank our 'stepping stone', rapporteur jonas sjöstedt, who has used a lot of energy and expertise to maintain the momentum of the negotiations up to the conciliation committee.
the directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries has thus been a success for the environment, but also for the economic operators in the mining industry and thus also for the people.
environmental action is not just about doing nothing and making the untouched nature the standard of all things.
this is to be used in accordance with the principle of sustainability by people for people.
it would be wrong to say that mining has no impact on nature and the environment.
today, thanks to positive developments, technological possibilities and increased environmental awareness, we are setting new standards than we were 50 years ago.
for the safety of people and the preservation of our healthy environment, we must make use of these achievements.
we have them today, and i think we are on a positive path to do good for the environment and for people here.
the compromise we have found in the 'sufficient' category, as mr ulmer has called it, on pollution conditions and quality standards is a fair compromise between all three interests which are in conflict there.
i would like to agree with mrs scheele at the outset that indeed all the policies which the european union is supporting are and must be governed by the principles of sustainability.
the debt that the member states leave to the young generation is certainly not sustainable.
firstly, i believe that strengthening ownership by improving cooperation with the actors in this field is an important element with which we actually strengthen the understanding at the grassroots level that sustainability is not a hollow principle that we just hold up in beautiful sunday speeches, as colleagues here have said, but that it concerns every individual in a very concrete way.
when farmers suddenly see large parts of their land in natura 2000 areas restricted and protected, it is very difficult to promote sustainability.
we need to show these farmers, whether by compensation or by giving them the opportunity to earn their money in some other way, that sustainability is also good for them.
martin bartenstein, minister for economic affairs, energy and labour, was then given the task of finding solutions with the partners, the ukrainians, the russians and the european partners, as well as commissioner piebalgs.
(applause from the centre) if the question of reducing dependence on one supplier, diversification, the creation of sufficient reserves and the security of the energy networks is at stake - which, incidentally, is only possible if we encourage long-term investment, if we also allow long-term supply links and contracts - then the short-term profit of the next quarter is not the question, but long-term solutions for europe are the only answer.
i have always fought for the idea that each country should and must choose its own energy sources.
we must work together at european level to put european safety standards at the forefront, and we must pay more attention than ever to renewable energy and to the exploitation of all the possibilities that are important to us and our environment.
(applause from the centre) this question of energy security will be a very important topic at the european spring summit.
i would also like to invite the european social partners under our presidency to work together on such solutions - jobs, growth, energy security - and i have already had very good discussions with the european trade union confederation and the employers' organisation unice.
we must listen to citizens who complain about the misuse of eu funds and the waste of some programmes.
it has helped to create a relatively optimistic climate in this pivotal year of 2006. it is now necessary to continue this dynamic and make it a reality.
europe, with its culture and values, can only progress if it is able to make progress in three areas simultaneously: economic performance, social cohesion and the sustainable management of its resources.
this covers key areas like research and development, universities, demographic change, energy, migration, security and the role of europe in the world.
energy issues mark the debut of this presidency, and i want to thank the austrian presidency for its excellent cooperation in dealing with the recent gas dispute between russia and ukraine.
energy issues will remain a dominant theme of our future agenda.
the recent crisis and persistently high oil prices teach a lesson to those who normally resist and obstruct the provision of a european dimension for energy policy and to all those who always resist a european dimension in politics and policy-making.
europe must have an improved, more coordinated energy policy based on the principles of diversification of sources, security of supply and sustainability.
well before hampton court, when leaders clearly stressed the need for a new approach, the commission announced a green paper on secure, competitive and sustainable energy policy.
we are also preparing a series of new initiatives on energy efficiency and clean technologies.
finally, we will put forward ideas for developing a real pan-european energy market, enhancing cooperation with our neighbouring countries.
i look forward to working with you over the coming months to give shape to european energy policy.
the commission has presented sustainable development as an overarching objective and, last december, presented a communication on the review of the sustainable development strategy.
this will provide the momentum needed to complete the preparation of a new european union sustainable development strategy.
it offers a long-term vision for addressing issues such as climate change, preservation of natural resources, social exclusion and world poverty.
my final point: we have been talking about energy.
of course, energy is also about our own supply, about ourselves and about our prosperity.
the draft constitution has welcomed the adoption of the codecision rules in the fields of environmental protection, food safety and consumer protection, which have been established since the amsterdam treaties.
it is the only guarantee of sustainable rural development and is inextricably linked to it.
the elections were not free or fair, there were deficiencies, but at the same time progress was made, because for the first time they took place without violence in such a difficult environment.
as i said before, i have been speaking with foreign minister lavrov on this issue and at least a few amendments have been taken into consideration, but on the whole i agree with those who say that, as regards russia, we need a coherent policy that encompasses energy security.
question no 1 by mr liam aylward (h-1119/05) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: climate changethe european council is asked to make a statement on the success or failure of the united nations conference on climate change held in montreal, canada, during the week beginning 5 december 2005.
the president of the council.
i have to say, madam president, as the honourable member is aware, the european council recently welcomed the positive results of the united nations conference on climate change, held in montreal from 28 november to 10 december 2005. the montreal plan of action now calls for future climate talks to be conducted on two fronts.
second, all parties to the unfccc, including the united states and major developing countries, have agreed to engage in a global discussion on long-term coordinated action on climate change.
i have to say, madam president, it is clear - and the montreal negotiations have shown this - that the major greenhouse gas producers are now increasingly involved in the dialogue on a future climate regime, and it is important that there is no single entry.
the future regime may well involve structural changes, which should make the efforts made so far significantly easier for europe to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
there are also quite remarkable developments outside the international climate process, and different regions have taken different initiatives.
the gleneagles action plan, if i may mention it at this point, sets out the priorities of the eu's main trading partners for technology transfer and tackling the effects of climate change, and it provides for dialogue and technological cooperation with india, china and russia.
it is in the european union's interest to ensure with all countries inside and outside the international climate dialogue that our common targets for reducing emissions are not undermined by the actions of groups or states.
i have to say, madam president, the eu emissions trading system is one of the cornerstones in the fight against climate change.
it is the world's first international trading system for co2 emissions, and it tracks some 12 000 installations, or just under half of all european co2 emissions.
it helps eu member states to meet their emissions targets.
no other system allows such cost-effective reductions in emissions.
the council is well aware of the difficulties in implementing the eu emissions trading system during the pilot phase you have mentioned.
i have to say, madam president, the european union has always been committed to global cooperation on climate protection.
the european implementation of the kyoto protocol gives credibility to the eu's efforts and shows that climate action is feasible and compatible with economic growth.
we do not consider that economic and climate concerns are opposites.
for example, the eu's path to an emissions trading system is the most cost-effective way to achieve emissions reductions.
furthermore, international studies have repeatedly shown that inaction would have far more severe consequential costs than funding climate action now and in the future.
the earlier measures to protect the climate are taken, the lower the costs to the economy in the long run.
it therefore makes economic sense for the european union to take climate action, which also creates new jobs, for reasons of energy efficiency.
it is clearly in the interests of the european union to have well-governed and democratic partners in our neighbourhood which can finally join in the positive dynamics of sustainable social and economic development.
the commission has been active on a broad front, including, for example, progress on market economy status; visa facilitation and energy issues for ukraine; the border assistance mission on the moldovan/ukrainian border; creating new fora in which to discuss issues such as democracy, human rights and governance, for instance with our mediterranean partners – i need only recall the euromed conference in barcelona in november; the preparations to pursue our educational cooperation and in particular to extend twinning and technical assistance and information exchange programmes to taiex programmes to our partners; and our proposal for a new european neighbourhood and partnership instrument – the enpi – that will not be decoupled from the neighbourhood policy.
let me also briefly say that the gas dispute of 1 january has shown how important the energy question has become.
let me also say that we must urgently draw the consequences of this gas dispute and the energy question for our external policy.
i intend to give the highest priority to developing an effective foreign energy policy which will aim at the most effective guarantee possible of the security of the eu energy supply.
we are not starting from scratch, as many instruments already exist, but they need further exploitation and an energy dialogue with russia that has already covered much ground and provided us with a good basis to address bilateral aspects is there, but we have to make it really profound and we have to go on.
we recently signed a memorandum of understanding with ukraine on energy and, in addition, we will provide expertise to ukraine and moldova.
therefore, there is a multidimensional aspect and we shall address that through institutions such as g8, the international energy agency, the osce and others.
we have the energy charter treaty, which russia has not yet joined, but we also have the south-east europe energy community treaty as instruments on which we will build.
the example of energy policy has already been mentioned, for example, in the case of aid to ukraine.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
the ten lines of action of the charter are important guidelines for increasing the exchange of good practice, encouraging the creation of new businesses and creating a positive environment overall.
the lisbon strategy must not only have economic policy objectives, but also must identify key elements for strengthening social cohesion and sustainable development.
we therefore call for even smaller cuts in the price of sugar and beet, for greater encouragement of the cultivation of renewable raw materials as a substitute for beet cultivation and for higher compensation payments.
energy policyis set to become an important topic in the eu's neighbourhood policy, as the eu is surrounded by the world's main oil and natural gas reserves (russia and the caspian basin, the middle east and north africa).
human rights policy is above all sustainability!
on the night of the first of 2006, many of us spent the night awake, trying to solve a very serious problem that affected us: ukraine and russia had a problem that was difficult to solve because of the lack of an energy agreement between the two countries.
if that energy agreement had remained a disagreement, it would have had enormously serious repercussions on the energy supply for many countries in the european union.
and less than a week later, it began breaking the seals that had been placed by the international atomic energy agency in vienna, in accordance with the resolutions of the security council and the board of governors of that agency.
and many of them would have to do with the influence of the european union in the world today, because in all these issues that i have mentioned, in all of them, the european union has had to play a fundamental role: whether in the issue of energy security, fundamental, which will remain with us throughout the whole of 2006; whether in the issue of iran, which will remain with us in the coming days and, certainly, beyond the coming days, and to which i want to refer later; whether in the elections in palestine and their consequences; whether after the death of president rugova and in view of the consequences that it will have in 2006 - let us hope that only in 2006 - on the final development of the agreements on the status of kosovo; whether in the issues related to the changes that have occurred in the african union, with which we have deep relations of friendship, cooperation and affection.
i think that the honourable members are well aware of what has happened in iran since 3 january this year, a few days ago, and especially of all that has happened since 13 january, when the european union took the decision in berlin to convene an extraordinary meeting of the board of governors of the international energy agency and then to ask that board of governors to refer the dossier on iran to the united nations security council.
the issue before us is a fundamental one, linked to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and therefore it seems to us essential to obtain the widest possible agreement among the members of the international community and, very specifically, among the members of the board of governors of the international energy agency.
let us hope, therefore, that we can move in that direction, that we can move relatively quickly, but i repeat that it will be necessary to put a lot of energy into moving along this path towards a final solution to the situation in kosovo, which would certainly mean a fundamental step for the stability of the entire balkan region, of the countries to which we have offered the european perspective since the thessaloniki summit and on many occasions.
there is no end to the things i would like to share with you on this first day of february 2006, a year which has started with a truly exciting activity, which will make us all tremble and which should make us work with an energy, a capacity and a dedication such as we have rarely seen in the european union.
when you consider what this scenario means for world peace but also for our energy security for example, and when you see at the same time that a politically reawakened russia is using energy as a political tool, so that countries in our neighborhood are worried about whether they can preserve their independence and freedom of decision, then this is a scenario that can be depressing.
we must be much more active and, for example, in the case of ukraine and energy policy in general, we must link things together in such a way that no single country can be punished, but that we all look after our interests together.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i do not need to add anything to the description of the threat posed by the energy situation, which is also very serious for ukraine.
one of them mentioned by many of you was that of energy policy.
that means, of course, that we should have a better conducted energy policy, if not a common external one.
i know we have to head for this at the very least, and we already have quite a lot of valuable instruments with which to do so, including political dialogues and specific energy dialogues.
we have to look into the integration into the european energy market of the energy markets of our neighbouring countries, following the example of the south east european energy community, for instance.
we also have a lot of financial instruments to encourage energy topics to come together.
the security of energy supply, as i have mentioned before, is crucial.
for that we need a sustainable and cohesive way forward.
energy policy has been mentioned here several times.
the question of a european energy policy will play a very important role at the european council in march.
the security of energy supply, as it is also mentioned here, is a very important issue.
the aim is to reduce unilateral dependence on energy suppliers and networks and, in particular, to promote and strengthen renewable energy and alternative energy sources.
we must be very careful not to hit the wrong people, and we must see that the special markets served by these animals, which are more expensive and accepted by people, are not ruined to the ecological detriment of the farmers.
it is true that europe is only competitive if it is also innovative in the field of environmental protection.
i would like to see a bonus not just for innovation but above all for environmental information.
if we take göteborg seriously and want to have a triangle of economic, social and environmental development, then we can rely on it in business terms, but in the national economy this statement is not true.
this means that they are forced to rely on having territorial, social and environmental cohesion.
reducing red tape in the context of the reform of state aid law is an important aspect of creating a more business-friendly legal environment, as is increasing de minimis aid.
on the environment, the commission cannot refuse to approve aid just because the objective pursued is not environmental.
priorities in this context are: an effective implementation of the new lisbon strategy for growth and jobs; the completion of the internal market, including for services, telecoms, energy, and financial services; ensuring simple and effective regulation, which frees businesses and citizens from unnecessary costs and red tape; and making better use of the existing internal market framework, which includes better administrative cooperation across borders.
but we also said that, particularly in trade with third countries, it is necessary to take into account whether these third countries comply with international standards in labour law, social law and environmental law.
and we had proposed to extend or adapt the preferential trade arrangements so that certain preferences are granted to those third countries which adhere to them, which have just ratified and implemented the international conventions on occupational safety and environmental protection.
the european union should devote less time to marginal issues and much more time to the essential problems, to the fight against unemployment, to sustainable environmental protection and to effective cooperation in internal and external security.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
the european parliament will today - and we can expect you, commissioner, to do so - by a large majority call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal for heating and cooling with renewable energies.
i say this because the presentation of the commission's communication of may 2004 on the share of renewable energy in the eu would have made it necessary for the commission to act.
the communication clearly stated that the forecast failure to achieve the target of doubling the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption by 2010 is mainly due to the poor market penetration of renewable heating and cooling technologies.
at present, renewable energy sources - solar thermal, biomass and geothermal - account for about 10% of the heat produced.
experts estimate that by 2020, at least 25% of heating and cooling needs could be met by renewable energy sources.
but they will only be produced from renewable energy sources if the framework conditions change.
the report calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a directive requiring member states to adopt legislative measures for heating and cooling from renewable energy sources.
these are people who care about the environment, about the climate.
these are many small and mediumsized enterprises which have a great potential for employment and which want to contribute to it, particularly in the field of heat production from the sun, geothermal energy and biomass.
i was shocked to read a preliminary draft of the green paper on energy supply, which is being circulated in the corridors of brussels.
overall, renewable energies are an incredible shadow in this draft green paper.
and i hope that you will show the commitment to efficiency and renewable energy that we have come to expect from you here.
i hope you will announce today that the commission will be presenting a proposal for a directive on renewable heating and cooling this year.
energy security has been the mega-theme of the last weeks and months.
but i think we also need to make renewable heating a mega-theme.
the industry association in this area in the country i know best - germany - says that within ten years we can increase the share of renewable energy in new installations from eight to eighty per cent.
we have not yet increased the share of energy consumption tenfold, but we have increased the share of new plants.
renewable heating is also cheap compared to other energy sources such as solar thermal and photovoltaic; the price ratio is often 1 to 45. so we have been least supportive of what could be most accomplished, so we have to change something here.
i also believe that this is not just a national issue, but a european issue, because the reason why renewable heating and cooling is not yet on the agenda is not because the technology is so complicated in general.
i do not see support for the rothe report as a contradiction to my position and that of my party on nuclear energy.
i think we need both renewable energy and nuclear energy.
we have discussed very often in this house that we are faced with challenges in the energy field.
i am a little concerned about one thing, namely that the right objective - that we must save, that we must develop new additional and renewable sources of energy - narrows our view and makes us believe that this is the only way that is right, that is reasonable and that is the way to salvation.
i am firmly convinced that on the contrary, those colleagues who say that this is an additional possibility that we must take advantage of are right, but it will not prevent us from giving other answers, for example to the question 'how do we deal with nuclear energy?'
we heard from the commissioner this morning that 42 directives have been adopted in the energy sector alone, 22 of them in the energy efficiency sector alone!
this directive must respect the specificities of the member states and avoid the risk of a downward spiral in terms of working and wage conditions, quality, consumer protection and the environment.
quality and the environment are protected.
for us european social democrats, one thing is clear: every economic and technical advance - that has been the success of the second half of the 20th century - has been linked to higher incomes, greater social security, greater environmental rights, greater consumer protection.
frits bolkestein's goal was to create growth on the assumption that there is less income, less social security, less environmental standards and less consumer protection.
this means that the social rights acquired in the member states, the wage rights acquired in the member states, the environmental rights acquired and the consumer rights acquired in the member states are preserved, that they are the basis of the provision of services.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
if it becomes a reality, it will be the breakthrough to a europe in which the logic of the market and profit rules unrestrictedly, in which quality and environmental standards are leveled down and the downward spiral in wages and social security would be accelerated in an intolerable way.
the two questions i was asked: security of energy supply has been one of the main concerns of european energy policy for many years, alongside competitiveness and sustainability - these are the three relevant pillars.
this is also the case for the new energy policy for europe which is now being drawn up.
the european union has close relations with energy producers such as russia and opec, as well as with major consumers such as china and india.
in this context i would also like to mention international agreements such as the energy charter treaty and the energy community of south-east europe.
the main aspects of energy security are the diversification of energy sources, the promotion of domestic energy sources, in particular renewable energy sources, and energy efficiency.
the transeuropean energy networks are also part of both aspects.
in particular, the council directive 67/2004 ec of 26 april 2004 on measures to safeguard natural gas supplies, the directive on the diversification of energy sources, the directive on the production of electricity from renewable energy sources of 2001, with the objective of generating 22% of electricity from renewable energy sources in the community by 2010, and the directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels of 2003 are relevant for security of supply.
the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services, adopted in december 2005, is also worth mentioning and is expected to be adopted in the coming months.
the sixth framework programme for research and development, and in particular the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme, which aims, among other things, to promote new and renewable energy sources at local and regional level and in developing countries, should also be mentioned.
the council also expresses the importance it attaches to renewable energy sources in non-legislative terms.
in their contribution to the spring council in march 2005, the energy ministers committed themselves to the priority of a strategy for renewable energy sources beyond 2010. energy policy and in particular energy security will also be on the agenda and certainly in the forefront of the next council meeting in the spring.
two other priorities for the presidency are the handling of the biomass action plan and the announced energy efficiency action plan.
in its contribution to the international action plan of the international conference on renewable energy in bonn in june 2004, the council noted that eu energy policy should aim at significantly increasing the use of renewable energy sources and that increased use of renewable energy, improvements in energy efficiency and sustainable use of energy as complementary policy areas also contribute to security of supply.
at its meeting on 29 november 2004, the council adopted conclusions on renewable energy, which stress the importance of increasing the competitiveness of renewable energy, inter alia, by reducing production costs.
all these instruments and measures provide a solid basis for the short, medium and long-term security of energy supply in the european union, which has also proved its worth in the solidarity approach to the consequences of last year's weather disasters.
this applies to the maintenance of public security and order, as well as to the protection of the environment and health.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
that is why, as a result of the vote of the international atomic energy agency board in vienna on 4 february, iran’s nuclear dossier is now to be reported to the united nations security council.
indeed, iran has the right to develop research, production and the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
we recognize the fundamental right of each member of the non-proliferation treaty to the peaceful civilian use of nuclear energy.
i think that the iaea's proposal that enrichment should be carried out generally, and for all countries, under the control of the international atomic energy agency is correct.
the use of nuclear energy is itself problematic.
but i would like to stress once again - and this has been mentioned by many speakers here - that the european union remains committed to a diplomatic solution to the iranian nuclear issue within the framework of multilateralism, in particular within the framework of the international atomic energy agency.
but credit is also due to the local authorities, which have been able to achieve significant progress in what, to say the least, is a rather complex environment.
climate change, animal diseases, natural disasters, global sectoral crises - there are many things that the individual farmer cannot foresee, let alone economically assess.
the earth's climate is shifting.
i am reminded that we are also reaching a point of no return in the fossil fuel sector, and that we must prepare agriculture for the fact that it will have to switch to other sources of energy and that it may also be able to make a profit from it.
in may 2005, the agriculture council invited the commission to work closely with all stakeholders to develop an eu action plan for sustainable forest management by mid-2006, which should specify the elements of the eu forest strategy.
fourthly, europe's forests must be protected from forest fires and air pollution, but also from soil and water pollution.
fifth: forests can help us to reduce the greenhouse effect and global warming, but only if we make greater use of their diverse products.
the union should therefore promote the use of environmentally friendly wood products and, in particular, take greater account of renewable energy from forests in its energy mix.
we believe that europe's forests are under-utilized, unlike other regions of the world, not only in terms of wood - we use only 60% of the renewable quantity - but also in terms of the services which are not yet marketable.
but the eu forest strategy and the development of an eu action plan for sustainable forest management is not about new areas of responsibility and expenditure.
but it is also undeniable that the influence of other policy areas such as environmental and agricultural policy on forests and forest management has been steadily growing.
the forestry and timber industry is also being pushed to the limits of profitability by ever-increasing social demands and environmental standards.
we want social, environmental and economic sustainability in the european context to continue to be exemplary and european forestry to remain competitive.
we are calling for a legally enforceable regulation which will put an end to this waste of european money once and for all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
we need a different kind of economy, a reproduction of society, that is based on real social, global sustainability.
but since we as parliamentarians at european level - especially we women - want to be not only hardworking but also sustainable, the framework conditions must be right in which our future gender institute is to operate.
it is about a mentality which should also be more mature in a changing environment, in an environment which requires a deeper understanding of influences and dynamism.
let us take advantage of this favourable economic environment to make a new leap forward towards our goal of growth and employment.
(applause) the energy challenges of the 21st century require a strong and effective response.
after a long period of relative stability, we can no longer take secure and affordable energy supplies for granted.
increased import dependence, higher energy prices and climate change are challenges shared by all european union member states.
only a european response, based on sustainability, competitiveness and security, can deal with the magnitude of these challenges.
we must accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, using both new energies and existing ones to ensure sustainability.
we must change not just energy supply but energy demand.
there is considerable scope to use energy more efficiently to the benefit of the climate, consumers and our security.
europe is at the leading edge of the development of low-carbon technologies.
i sometimes hear people say that a european energy policy is not feasible because it touches areas where member states have national strategic interests.
it is exactly because energy is strategic that we need a european strategy and not 25 national strategies.
the important thing is to get people retrained and back on the job ladder in a sustainable way.
the fact that the goal of sustainability, of social justice, as formulated in gothenburg, should be part of this strategy has been completely neglected.
i am afraid that - after the discussions i have seen in the lisbon coordination structure, including what we have developed as a motion for a resolution, which we are voting on today - there is a risk that parliament will no longer be prepared to follow this ambitious strategy of actually linking sustainability and growth.
if you are not prepared to talk about environmental taxes, how can you then enforce sustainability from the state?
let us take an important recent example: energy policy.
mr verheugen, mr barroso, if you are not prepared to integrate transport policy into your energy policy strategies, if you are not prepared to put resource conservation and efficiency at the heart of the strategies, but to rely once again on the extension of the life of nuclear power stations, then you will fail.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a fair and efficient manner.
the market does not currently apply to energy.
we need to decouple energy production and distribution, decouple production and the grid.
mrs kroes has said very rightly that we will only have a chance against the energy giants politically if we actually win the market against the energy giants.
the free movement of capital: italy prohibits the acquisition of holdings in italian credit institutions, poland opposes the merger of unicredit and hbv, the french and spanish oppose the takeover of domestic energy suppliers.
this is particularly ironic, because it is in the energy sector that a european approach is needed.
we have three main points in our resolution: the subject of demography, energy policy and innovation.
but we need competition for high social standards, for high environmental standards.
it is scandalous that exactly 20 years after the chernobyl accident, two thirds of the members of the european parliament voted in favour of the continued use of nuclear energy in the resolution on the lisbon strategy.
the whole cycle of nuclear energy use violates fundamental rights and irreversibly degrades the living conditions of future generations: uranium mining is associated with massive depletion of natural resources and radioactive contamination of groundwater.
it is not really possible to separate the 'civilian' use of nuclear energy from the military use.
large areas of land and seas are repeatedly contaminated by radioactive waste from reprocessing plants.
the disposal and final storage of the daily accumulation of highly radioactive nuclear waste, which will remain radioactive for at least 10,000 years, is still unresolved.
instead of investing in nuclear technologies, the eu should be expanding renewable energy even more.
only decentralised supply from renewable energy sources can ensure energy security in the long term.
because in times of expansion fatigue, it was important to send that signal and to provide our partners with a predictable environment.
and if there is a possible circle here - iran, syria, an agreement in lebanon with hezbollah on all sides and contacts with hamas - then there is a great danger of a connection which is extremely problematic and to which we must find a response, not only to safeguard peace and combat terrorism but also to ensure energy security.
there is a lot that can be done in the areas of the internal market, internal and external security, environmental policy and more in such a multilateral project - if i may use the working title 'european economic area plus' once - .
the subject under discussion is currently being discussed in the light of recent examples of concentration, particularly in the energy sector.
to deny this possibility to companies as a matter of principle or by failing to implement correctly the provisions of the ec sectoral legislation introducing competition in the markets – such as energy, telecoms and financial services – would amount to a serious restriction of their ability to adapt to the challenges presented by the integration of markets in the eu, to the rapid advances in technology which many industries are experiencing, and generally to the evolving dynamics of doing business in the europe of today.
take the energy sector as an example.
sustainable, competitive and secure energy will not be achieved without open and competitive energy markets, based on competition between companies looking to become europe-wide competitors rather than dominant national players.
in the energy sector in particular, it can be described as being in danger.
european energy companies also have the problem that if they are not competitive in europe, they are consequently not competitive internationally.
the situation is also worsening for all other companies, because they have to pay the high energy prices and thus also lose international competitiveness.
the commission's intention to introduce competition law instruments is to apply the famous two-thirds rule of merger law in the energy sector, with the result that the commission has little room for manoeuvre.
the consequence is that we want to have a single market, particularly in the energy sector.
it is not acceptable that some organisations - similar to those in the environmental field - should be considered so generous that they finance brussels offices of the eu commission as if they were subcontractors.
we have millions of people in the european union who have had very positive experiences with complementary and alternative medicine, not to mention environmental medicine.
improving europe's energy supply, more energy efficiency, more energy security?
i do not want to talk about energy policy as such, but about the foreign and security policy measures that go along with it.
given the fact that russia this winter - it seems - has turned energy into a political weapon, and given the situation in the middle east, we must see that the question of energy security is an extremely problematic issue, as we have not had for a long time.
that is why we must work out and implement several things in closer cooperation between the committee on foreign affairs and, mr chichester, in your committee, such as the demand that russia finally put the energy charter into practice and ratify it, so that a secure energy supply is guaranteed.
i believe that we must work much more closely with ukraine and the south caucasus to modernise and build energy networks.
in particular, however, i think we need a network within the european union, a network which is not directed against someone who is not 'energy nato', but which is an internal network, so that if someone wants to shut down a country, that country automatically gets supplies from all the other countries.
i agree with you that it is absolutely necessary to have a truly common energy policy.
the question cannot be whether, but how we can achieve a european energy policy that is consistent with the objectives of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability.
they both supported the need for further expansion of renewable energy.
the commission has already set targets for electricity, biofuels and total energy.
it is more important to really look now to achieve our target of 12% of total energy consumption from renewable sources by 2010. that is why it is very important and necessary that what you, commissioner piebalgs, announced in parliament happens, namely that a directive on heating and cooling from renewable energies is presented, because that is where the shortcomings lie.
the example of germany makes it quite clear that germany's withdrawal from nuclear energy will require the replacement of 33 billion kilowatt hours by 2010. the current forecast is for 51 billion kilowatt hours of renewable energy to be produced by 2010. the commission has always been convinced that the real situation in the field of renewable energy sources has exceeded the forecasts.
so to those who say that nuclear energy is very important, we have the chance to replace this energy source.
we also have the need, because this energy is finite and we are totally dependent on imports for uranium.
it is also extremely important to make use of energy efficiency.
i have the impression that the new situation since the beginning of this year has made it clear to everyone that energy is not only important for economic development in europe.
it's also becoming increasingly clear that we have energy scarcity and political dependencies that are emerging to a degree that obviously has not been seen before by a large part of society.
but this crisis also offers a huge opportunity, which is that we can finally have a factual, sober discussion about energy issues and maybe come down from the trees, forget old battles from the day before yesterday or stop carrying beliefs in front of us.
we cannot do without potential in the renewable energy sector.
i think that is why we cannot avoid saying openly that we cannot do without nuclear energy either.
it cannot be done by saying no coal, no nuclear energy, but please do everything co2-free and save the environment.
our children deserve to have energy in the future, and they deserve to have it in a sufficient form.
i also think it is immoral for us to buy up all the energy potential in the world because we have the resources, and perhaps leave the countries that do not have these resources - i am talking about developing countries - at the end.
we have a moral duty to use nuclear energy too.
the security of supply is not really a given, and the climate-friendliness of our current energy supply is not guaranteed either.
there are a number of other cyclones, and scientists tell us that this is most likely already an effect of climate change.
the first is nuclear energy: we should not shut down safe nuclear power plants for political reasons.
i regret that german chancellor merkel cannot say this in her speech tomorrow because we are in coalition with the social democrats, but i am glad that the social democrats here in the european parliament are beginning to rethink and perhaps in a year's time mrs merkel will be able to defend nuclear energy on behalf of the entire federal government.
there are a number of other points that mrs merkel can support and that we can all support - and she will do so in her keynote speech at the summit tomorrow: we need energy efficiency.
energy is being wasted in europe and we can no longer afford to do that.
we need an efficient expansion of renewable energy.
it is essential to increase the use of renewable energy, but we should do so without permanent subsidies.
in view of tomorrow's council and the fact that the heads of state and government will be dealing very intensively with the subject of energy tomorrow, this debate was of great importance today and i would also like to thank all the participants very warmly.
mr rübig rightly pointed out that there is a need for a comprehensive debate on this problem and that all areas of activity in the european union must deal with the subject of energy.
but the member states are also called upon to contribute to this, because only a joint effort will bring us to the goal of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability, which must be the main priorities in european energy policy.
europe should speak with a common energy policy voice to third countries.
but i can tell you this: the energy debate tomorrow has been well prepared, including by the energy ministers and the general affairs council.
it will not be a commitment to national concerns at all, but a european energy policy will be decided tomorrow.
i would like to refer you first of all to the debate ten days ago in strasbourg, where i, on behalf of the council, together with the commissioner responsible for competition, stated very clearly that we are very much in favour of, and that we need to maintain, the rules of competition, especially in the field of energy.
i would like to mention a small paragraph on the energy policy for europe.
the paragraph dealing with exactly what you asked about points out that in fulfilling its main objectives, the energy policy for europe should ensure transparency and non-discriminatory markets; be consistent with competition rules; be consistent with public service obligations and fully respect member states' sovereignty over primary energy sources and choice of energy mix.
mrs rothe has called for concrete targets for the development of renewable energy sources.
a coherent, consistent energy policy for europe cannot be built overnight.
it is important that tomorrow the heads of state and government give an important impetus, and then the member states, the council and the commission build on these principles, which will be drawn up and adopted tomorrow, so that we finally arrive at what we all want: security of supply, greater efficiency, a constructive dialogue with third countries, so that the use of clean energy is guaranteed for the future and for future generations.
in the situation we are currently facing, we would usually look to history for courageous decisions which have been taken on energy policy.
i believe that, in the current challenge, the most competitive advantage will be that part of the world will not only be energy-efficient, but will also be capable of managing demand.
otherwise, even with the best diversification, we will not be sustainable.
the second important issue is that, if in a more complex environment – not just one in which we switch from coal to oil – we would like to be successful and achieve the goals we have agreed on, we should be aware that we are able to achieve them, just as we have been able to achieve our previous goals.
the strategic eu energy review will provide for a very competent debate and for the right decisions to be made.
i really believe we will come back for the debate and agree on the content of a european energy policy.
this includes making concrete contributions to peace, sustainable development, respect for human rights and the development and strengthening of democracy worldwide.
the following four points are particularly important to me in this context: firstly, a financial framework must be created which makes possible long-term financing which is also long-term and sustainable.
however, the grants currently paid to european parties do not allow for truly long-term sustainable planning of activities to a sufficient extent.
we want to have a sustainable long-term planning of the party's finances and not a situation in which, as it were, just before christmas, money is thrown out the window because it simply has to be spent and otherwise it may be lost.
i therefore ask that the following questions be considered: how can the negative effects of population decline be absorbed by innovation, higher employment rates and modernisation of social protection, and can there also be positive aspects of population decline, for example in the areas of the environment, traffic congestion, land use?
the use of renewable raw materials and the production of energy from renewable sources represents a huge potential for europe's rural areas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
now to the question of ecology: what about the use of genetic engineering in the cultivation of renewable raw materials?
we also have un-ecological methods of growing renewable raw materials.
it's not necessarily ecological.
when we come to greenhouse gases, we have to say: they are also bound when we produce for food.
so a little more moderation and a little less enthusiasm than the rapporteur shows, and a little more focus on renewable resources that are generated as waste products.
so if we want to recycle, it would be important to recycle straw, wood, hedges, but to bind the land we need for food, for growing renewable resources, is a big problem that we should look at more closely and with less enthusiasm.
biomass is undoubtedly the future of europe's energy supply.
in the case of energy crops in particular, genetic engineering can bring decisive economic advantages in global competition.
policies must provide the framework for turning this fragile plant into a powerful source of energy.
the energy mix and the share of renewable energy in total energy demand are the most topical issues today, due to current events.
the agricultural reform allows farmers to grow energy crops on land set aside, but food production remains a priority.
first, a healthy environment, especially in terms of air, water and soil.
secondly, a healthy and adequate diet and thirdly, energy.
environmental, consumer and animal welfare standards, as well as minimum social standards, must also be set as wto objectives.
but care must be taken to ensure that support is used for social and ecologically sustainable regional development in rural areas and not for big agribusiness and banks.
what we need to discuss, and this debate is at the heart of it, is the following question: we have all the instruments we need to make this happen and are we using the instruments we have properly to give this single market the right framework and to influence the processes of economic development in a sustainable way?
when will we unlock the great potential that lies in energy efficiency?
however, mr špidla, i wonder how, in view of the criminal energy that is being expended to circumvent this principle in practice, a foreman on the spot as a contact person or a report on the day of the start of work should be sufficient to ensure control by the member states.
as regards the inflation criterion, the treaty, as the honourable members are aware, provides that the member state concerned is obliged to maintain a sustainable price trend and an average inflation rate that is no more than 1.5 percentage points higher than that of at most three member states with the best price stability performance.
some countries have decided to set even more ambitious targets, reflecting a national strategy to ensure better sustainability of their public finances.
on the one hand, the idea of sustainability suggests that this cultural capital event should not only have an event character, but should really help to enable more social exchange, more promotion of art and culture, but also new architectural offers.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by avril doyle, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases (pe-cons 3604/2006 c6-0065/2006 2003/0189a(cod)) (a6-0087/2006) and the report by avril doyle, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on emissions from air-conditioning systems in motor vehicles and amending council directive 70/156/eec (pe-cons 3605/2006 c6-0066/2006 2003/0189b ((cod)) (a6-0090/2006).
mr president, i can give the assurance that we believe that sustainability is not only a treaty principle but also the most important principle, individually and socially, in building economic progress with social and environmental responsibility.
a new topic was, of course, energy policy.
the russians cut energy supplies by 30% on the first night, 50% on the second night, while i was sitting with angela merkel at the new year's concert.
almost all global conflicts have something to do with energy.
climate change and its consequences are a subject for us.
the question of the world's increasing demand for energy needs to be answered, and we also have, of course, enormous security risks that we need to see.
the european council has taken up this matter and we have defined three objectives: security of supply, competitiveness of our economy and improvement of the quality of the environment.
in concrete terms, 20% energy savings have been agreed.
in reality, this means that the union is aiming to achieve a sustainable decoupling of economic growth and energy consumption.
we want to increase the share of renewable energy from the current 7% to 15%.
i know what i am talking about, i was minister for economic affairs and energy for six years.
the energy mix remains important, however, and the choice of energy source remains a national responsibility.
it was therefore agreed that the commission, together with the high representative, javier solana, would present a strategy paper on the external dimension of energy policy.
in retrospect, this debate and these decisions will be seen as a real breakthrough towards a new european energy policy.
i am thinking not only of the excellent reception of our green paper on energy, but also of other concrete proposals, in particular the one concerning the european institute of technology.
the key example chosen by the european council is the progress towards a genuine energy policy for europe.
whoever writes the history of european integration in twenty or twenty-five years' time will be able to say, without exaggeration, that the launch of an energy policy for europe took place in march 2006, under the austrian presidency.
i can assure you on behalf of the commission that it will exercise all its powers in the field of integration, because - and we want to say this emphatically - there is no reason for having 25 energy markets in europe.
there is no reason for europe to have 25 national energy policies today.
we need a common energy strategy for europe.
as i said in my introduction, the european council paid particular attention to energy.
it put the union on the path to a real energy policy for europe.
it endorsed the triple goals of our green paper: sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
it also sets out the practical measures to be taken, including some of the 20 specific proposals set out in the commission's green paper: a real internal market for energy, a coherent external policy, effective support for energy efficiency and renewables.
the commission's forward programme for energy is now very busy.
now it is very fashionable to talk about energy, and now member states accept what let us be frank two years ago would have been impossible to accept: that we need a common strategy.
so, for the june european council, as chancellor schüssel said, the commission and the high representative will come up with some ideas on the external dimension of energy policy.
we need a european energy policy.
we must never lose sight of what is our foundation in the debate on energy and the economy: our values, human rights, human dignity.
as regards energy policy, to which i wish to return because you have placed it at the centre of your report on the european council, it is true that we need a common european strategy.
the strategy must first of all take account of the fact that member states decide their own energy policy.
you could do me a favor and the chancellor - not at the next new year's concert, but when you meet her before - say: "angela, leave the fins of energy policy, as i do.
the crucial question is: how do we deal with energy policy in solidarity?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common energy policy.
it is all the more encouraging that the commission is now finally taking action and bringing proceedings against member states in the energy markets, including protectionism in france.
we must replace the lisbon strategy with a strategy of european solidarity and sustainability.
it is important that we reach an agreement that is sustainable.
the first point: what is particularly close to our hearts and which was also raised in the debate is, of course, the question of energy policy, which for all of us is increasingly an essential question of foreign policy.
in europe, this is primarily about combating the diseases of civilization, which are caused by diet and environment, while in developing countries we have the situation where people die of diseases that could be cured, such as those that occur during childbirth, where women get fistulas during childbirth, or where it is quite simple - we have just heard this again - that children are not vaccinated and the most necessary measures are not taken.
what do you think the european union should do to improve its contribution to world health, to overcoming hiv/aids, disease and the health consequences of hunger, water scarcity and environmental degradation?
of course, the criminal energy is usually that of those who sit at the meat-pots themselves in these countries.
a number of international conventions signed under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency reflect the response of the international community in the wake of the accident: the convention on early notification of a nuclear accident; the convention on assistance in the case of a nuclear accident or radiological emergency; the convention on nuclear safety; the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material; and the joint convention on the safety of spent fuel management and on the safety of radioactive waste management.
the european atomic energy community and the member states are contracting parties to all these conventions.
furthermore, all member states have established on their territory a network of facilities for monitoring the levels of radioactivity in the environment.
this resolution recalls that the eu possesses globally acknowledged expertise in the area of nuclear energy and notes that this expertise relates, inter alia, to the efficiency and quality of production installations and to decommissioning processes.
parliament is also aware that the commission has made specific legislative proposals intended to provide the union with common rules on nuclear safety, safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, and decommissioning funds.
furthermore, the commission will make every effort in the area of research and development to help to find a sustainable solution to the issue of the radioactive waste.
the accident which took place exactly twenty years ago today in the west of what was then the soviet union was the first european environmental tragedy of continental scale.
the name chernobyl should be a warning to us today when we discuss the way dictatorships deal with nuclear energy.
in view of the suffering of the victims, but also in view of the commitment shown by many people in the european union, the anniversary of the chernobyl accident should not be used for political gain and should not be used as an occasion for a debate against nuclear energy.
in december 1997, a fund was set up to cover the chernobyl reactor and protect the population and the environment from further radioactive contamination.
the fall of the iron curtain and, in particular, the enlargement of the european union to the east two years ago, have contributed to a safer use of nuclear energy in europe.
we want to continue this policy and we very much hope that we can work together to ensure a safe and secure energy supply in line with sustainable development and a healthy environment.
we must therefore, in all our absolutely legitimate security requirements, also consider the peaceful use of nuclear energy in the context of europe's security of supply, and we must all work together to achieve this.
i do not share the view of my colleague that this commemoration should not be used to decide in principle on the question of the use of nuclear energy.
(applause from the centre) i have fought against nuclear energy in my country since my earliest youth.
and because the risks are so great, even those who are against nuclear energy on principle must have an interest in us investing as much money as possible in the highest possible safety standards for nuclear energy.
we cannot and should not afford to waste time like this.
madam president, i would like to express my warmest thanks to parliament and most of all to its rapporteur mr titley for his report – and not only for his report but also for the energy with which he is pushing forward this very important facility for citizens.
commissioner, you have thanked the rapporteur for the energy he has put into this.
we should thank you for the energy with which you pursue this project.
in that case you would not have announced that you were withdrawing the proposal for a council decision authorizing the accession of the european community to the joint convention on the safety of spent fuel management and on the safety of radioactive waste management.
it will also create a clear legal environment, a level playing field for economic operators to ensure fair competition, and it will encourage investment in innovative food practices.
that will ensure a very high level of protection for public health and consumer protection and at the same time allow the industry to have a stable, concise, clear regulatory environment that will allow for innovation and the need to remain competitive at community and international level.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
it is simply necessary to make clear that the union's objectives and values are not the same as, for example, specific policies on fisheries or e-waste.
fifthly, ensuring that the sustainability of the instruments is checked by the commission evaluating which projects will survive after six to ten years and, sixthly, by the commission checking which of the rejected projects will be realised even without funding, in order to minimise the carry-over effects of future programmes.
we have spoken to mrs wallström today about this - and she has spoken on behalf of the whole commission, including the president of the commission - that the most important concern, apart from improving the political and psychological environment for the european union, is to leave no doubt that the vast majority of the european parliament wants the implementation of the constitutional treaty, because we need this constitution so that we have rules of the game for decisions in the european union and so that we have common values that unite us in the european union.
the same environmental sustainability standards should apply outside the union as well.
it must also be done in a sustainable way.
it does not replace the other path, however: they are two separate tracks going in the same direction – security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability.
i would like to start by saying that today russia plays a very important role in securing europe’s energy supplies.
as a result, russia is the largest single external energy supplier.
a broad relationship and energy dialogue was established between russia and the commission in 2000. moreover, the common economic space agreed during the eu-russia summit in may 2005 includes cooperation in a wide range of energy-related activities.
so the energy dialogue aims to discuss issues related to energy policy and market developments, infrastructure developments, and eu-russia cooperation in multilateral energy fora.
taking into account the expected growth of energy consumption in the eu, i expect russia to continue to supply around 25% of the gas consumed in the eu which, in absolute terms, would mean an increase in supplies.
at the same time, the eu will import 70% of its energy in 2030, compared with 50% today.
as a consequence, energy interdependence is becoming a global issue, with major shared concerns, such as increased demand for limited resources in the world, the lack of investment in new production and the climate change issues.
the green paper emphasised opportunities, such as policies to improve first of all energy efficiency and energy savings, as well as enhancing the market penetration of renewable energy sources.
it also highlighted external policy options, such as strengthening the framework for energy relations between the eu and russia in order to give more confidence to both sides, as well as policies and measures to diversification of the geographical sources and transportation routes of external energy supplies to the eu.
in this context, it is important to underline that the eu is making continuous efforts to improve energy relations with other energy-producing organisations – such as opec, the gulf cooperation council, the countries of the caspian basin and north africa – as well as with the consuming regions in the framework of the international energy forum, the international energy agency, g8 and through bilateral agreements and dialogues.
this policy of diversification is not directed against our current suppliers: it is a necessity dictated by the global energy security challenges and by the challenge posed by global warming and other environment-related issues.
together with the austrian presidency of the european union, i recently sent a letter to the russian energy minister, mr khristenko, on the issue of energy cooperation and in particular gas interdependency.
in this letter we reiterated the importance the eu attributes to deepening energy relations with russia, the eu’s most important energy supplier.
therefore, the short answer to the questions that have been asked is that we are looking for diversification, but it is extremely important to establish measures on the demand side, because only with demand-side measures, energy efficiency and savings can we actually establish our energy independence more strongly and, at the same time, look towards our goals of sustainability and competitiveness.
that is why energy independence is very important.
could we not therefore give greater priority to the promotion of heating materials produced from renewable raw materials, i.e.
one is definitely related to the energy charter and transit protocols under which such rights could be enjoyed.
in october this year, we will have a conference on energy policies.
it is also fairer to the russian side also to ask questions as to what europe’s views are and how far europe is going in creating a common energy policy.
the next item is the report by mrs dagmar roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (com (2004) 0775) c6-0223/2004 2004/0270b (cod)) (a6-0161/2006).
i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament, the committee on agriculture, the committee on the environment and in particular the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, and mr schnellhardt, the second rapporteur, for the intensive work done by the commission on this dossier.
we have therefore made sure that consumer and environmental protection issues play a major role by tightening up the decisions on principles.
i would also like to mention and remind the commission that it has promised to take part in the revision of regulation 1774/2002 to regulate the issue of the feeding of kitchen and catering waste.
i would like to thank all the colleagues on the environment committee for the good cooperation and the factual approach to this important subject.
i think this is a compromise which can be supported by all, and i therefore ask for the support of the council and the commission for amendment no 57. i would like to conclude by reminding the commission that there is a gap in the area of food waste recycling.
we are waiting for this proposal with great interest, with the aim of optimally and safely using, recycling and using these 'not waste' but recyclable materials which, if properly treated, can also be used properly.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental legislation is properly implemented.
during the discussions, several parties called for the appropriate integration of all the interests involved, such as those of consumers, environmental protection and small and medium-sized enterprises, in european standardisation.
the same applies to the integration of consumer protection, environmental protection and occupational safety interests.
this applies in particular to the areas of trade policy, transport, the environment and the security of travel documents.
we must increase our growth potential - and i agree with the views expressed in mr rosati's report - we must persevere on the path set out in the review of the lisbon strategy, we must continue to implement the national reform plans within the framework of that strategy, we must continue to reform the product, service and labour markets, we must correct where budgetary imbalances persist, we must make our public finances more sustainable, of course, we must improve the quality of public spending and, in particular, we must make a greater effort in all policies aimed at the qualification of human resources, research and development, innovation and, in general, education.
and in the stability and convergence programmes, adopted for the first time in accordance with the guidelines and parameters of the new pact, there is a qualitatively clear improvement in the medium-term budgetary strategies of the member states, with greater attention to sustainability and greater effort to improve the quality of public finances and to link budgetary and fiscal policies with the growth strategies included in the lisbon strategy and in the national growth plans.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community, and it is therefore not necessary to paint it black, but there is a need for action, particularly in terms of improving the economic climate and further integrating the internal market.
there is evidence of extraordinarily dynamic competitors, both in other industrialized countries and in emerging countries; there is a risk - which some of the honourable members have mentioned - arising from the evolution of energy prices; there are global imbalances in other important areas of the world economy which may affect this phase of growth.
we cannot pass up this opportunity, nor can we fail to learn from the mistakes that european economies and the euro area made in the previous period of economic recovery, by failing to use good periods of economic growth to consolidate public accounts to improve their sustainability and to use the dynamism of economies in the service of more and better jobs, which is what the citizens are asking us to do.
there has been a climate of cooperation for the best european solution.
my next point is energy policy.
europe should go ahead together and say we must move away from oil, we must invest much more in renewable energy, and we must adopt a new attitude here which also involves the citizens.
greater consideration of these universal rights and their sustainable integration into all policy areas are essential.
the establishment of the energy community is in itself making good progress.
the council is seeking to develop a common approach to a credible common external energy policy in the wake of the decisions taken in march.
we believe that it is absolutely necessary - also in order to avoid a disruption of the energy market we are seeking - that what has been enshrined in the memorandum of understanding - consequences for employment, social standards, working conditions, health, environmental consequences - needs a binding legal basis.
we believe it is very important that this treaty does not allow or pursue energy strategies which would have been appropriate 20 years ago at the most.
we believe that in this new treaty energy efficiency must be a very important concern and that the orientation of the market to be created must not be based solely on demand.
in line with the debate on greater autonomy in energy supply in europe, the consideration of renewable energies must be a central focus in all regions of this treaty.
the commission proposes a 17% increase for environmental policies, including the extension of the emissions trading scheme to the new member states.
firstly, i think we must make it clear that cohesion policy is of course intended to support the lisbon strategy, but we must not forget the sustainable development of the european union in accordance with the gothenburg objectives.
within the three commission guidelines enhancing the attractiveness of europe and its regions for investors and workers, promoting knowledge and innovation for growth and more and better jobs we support the development of sustainable transport infrastructure, including in border regions.
we attach particular importance to the implementation of environmental priorities such as natura 2000, the water framework directive and the sustainable prevention of natural disasters.
we draw attention to the particular opportunities of using renewable energy and developing new technologies in this field.
the guidelines have been successfully aligned on the principle of sustainable development.
i would like to stress this point because the commission has now moved away from giving this importance to sustainable development.
in my view, these problems which the commission has created in its own initiative can only be solved in retrospect if the commission, in its operational programmes, ensures that sustainable development is given equal consideration in all its dimensions and for all areas - urban and rural - in the economic, social and ecological approach, that is, in an approach to development of equal value.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
it has become increasingly clear that we must also be able to respond to industrial and technological disasters, to crises caused by terrorist acts, but also - and this is particularly important to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - to public health crises, and to provide solidarity and financial support.
i therefore also expect my colleagues not to support the renewed call for a monitoring centre for drought, desertification and other effects of climate change, as called for in another report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
this creates a double responsibility and a waste of money on administrative apparatus.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
i would also like to say to our polish friends and partners that you have a point on the energy question.
you can rightly expect solidarity when it comes to energy supplies.
they want more social protection, more environmental protection, they want more stability.
i would have liked to have seen the same energy used in defending the european constitution and in saying: i am fighting for my convictions as i have fought for other projects.
we're back to energy policy.
we know that in 20 years, 70 percent of our energy will be imported from unstable areas.
but this new basis for a new energy revolution would be something that many people would also welcome, and i would advise you to decide on this at the summit in june.
i am convinced, mr president, that europe can only be sustainable if it is a social europe, and i share the view of jean-claude juncker.
the united states has taken a position on the international court of justice, on climate change, on iraq and many other issues which we must take up with the present administration.
finally, i would like to mention a point relating to environmental policy, which is of particular importance to my group.
i would like to draw the attention of all the members to the new documentary by al gore, an inconvenient truth, which draws the attention of our friends in the united states to a very, very important issue which should also be given greater prominence in this report, namely global warming, which affects us all.
the first step is to check whether the potential partner is in compliance with internationally agreed standards, for example on social and labour protection, environmental protection, protection of human rights and whether or not he accepts the institution created for this purpose.
because then you can produce cheaper at the expense of the environment.
the further the policy moves away from the shaping of the economic order and leaves it to the discretion of market-liberal forces, the further the cohesion objectives are pushed away, all the more so as it simultaneously ignores social rights, democratic participation and the protection of our environment and fails to take sufficient account of regional and local conditions and particularities.
in countries where these conditions were not present, accelerated liberalization has led to deindustrialization, environmental degradation and growing dependency, and has exacerbated poverty among the population.
at the same time, these same rules are encouraging monoculture farming, which, while bringing huge profits to the agro-industry, has devastating consequences for the environment and employment.
instead, policies should aim to preserve biodiversity through sustainable economic practices, both through rules and financial support.
finally, in areas where the conditions for liberalising market sectors are in place, it is necessary to ensure that international standards on social, labour and environmental protection are compulsorily applied.
the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on paediatric medicinal products and amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92, directives 2001/20/ec and 2001/83/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 [15763/3/2005 - c6-0087/2006 - 2004/0217 (cod) ] rapporteur: erika mann (a6-0171/2006).
i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating mrs grossetête, rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on her report.
the next item is the report by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (2007-2013) (com (2005) 0121 - c6-0098/2005 - 2005/0050 (cod)) (a6-0180/2006).
but still: the major themes of innovation, competitiveness and energy are all covered in this programme.
firstly, the need to adjust the 20% energy saving target by 2020 upwards.
this means that we can expect much higher cost-effectiveness from energy efficiency measures.
in determining them, factors such as rising energy prices, reducing energy import dependency, climate and environmental protection, security of energy supply, innovation and medium and long-term energy saving effects shall be taken into account.
in addition to ambitious targets, we need ambitious energy efficiency action plans.
we really need to make these action plans the centrepiece of a necessary energy efficiency offensive, i.e.
we need good and intensive publicity, practical and effective proposals, and we also need differentiated energy efficiency scenarios.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the report by the committee on the environment contains 43 amendments as a recommendation for the second reading in the european parliament.
the groundwater ecosystem as such must be protected.
we will in any case not support the introduction of exceptions to the nitrate limit of 50 mg per litre of groundwater, which would lead to widespread pollution.
the daily pollution of groundwater must be stopped, and above all we must put an end to the extreme nitrogen inputs from industrial agriculture, as my predecessor has already said.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i have already had a very hard fight with your brother, who was then minister for the environment, and we have in many cases come to a good conclusion.
failure to protect water and to keep it clean in the first place means incurring multiple costs and long-term pollution of water.
however, the concern that the new directive may leave room for additional pollution is addressed by the requirement in article 5 to identify and reverse any significant upward trend in pollutant concentrations.
as regards the programmes of measures to reverse the trend of nitrate concentrations of agricultural origin, it is noted that the relevant provisions of the nitrates directive still cover these programmes and therefore do not need to be included in this directive, therefore the commission can accept amendment no 43. i would like to reiterate here that the nitrate directive, the water framework directive and this directive all have the same objectives in terms of preventing and reducing nitrate pollution.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire, and that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i would therefore ask you to support amendment no 71, which has already been adopted in the committee on the environment, to be voted on tomorrow in the plenary.
but whoever has had to clear out his cellar, his barn or even his house because the news came from trier: in an hour the water rises by exactly that many centimetres, and so you are standing in the hallway of your house thank god you can find this out today who knows what it means to be on call and to carry out cleaning work during each major rainy season, and who also knows about the energy, the cost and the time necessary to cope with these disasters.
i would like to make a special point on energy research, which is the subject of european decisions for many years to come.
the european parliament has no real influence on the bulk of the energy research funds allocated under the euratom treaty and, in fact, only a small part of the funds allocated under the seventh research framework programme.
the fact that we spend most of the energy research funds on nuclear fusion, under euratom, without democratic control, is certainly out of date.
for me, lisbon means that we want to make climate action effective and secure jobs and employment in the coming years.
climate change through a technology that even the leading scientists say will not contribute to the energy supply in the next 40 or 50 years - how is that possible?
climate targets must be met by 2020 or we can forget kyoto.
we are trying to secure some of the funds under the seventh framework programme for research on efficiency and renewable energy - there are some interesting amendments here - but even this change to the pooling of funds for efficiency and renewable energy will not change the irresponsible imbalance in favour of nuclear research.
concerning energy, it is clear – as a number of you quite rightly pointed out – that this is one of the major challenges we must address in the future.
however, the commission’s opinion is that the challenge is simply too serious for us to leave any potential area out of the research – from renewables to hydrogen fuel cells, clean coal, nuclear energy, smart networks and more efficient use of energy, etc.
this a truly important issue, and on the subject of environmental challenges such as climate change, i would say that these are more serious than we are sometimes ready to admit.
the legal system is under political control, the question of whether russia is a reliable energy supplier remains open.
the yukos case is an example of the government's need to disclose the state's entanglements and dependencies with the energy corporations.
russia is - and this is not just a phrase - an important and important neighbour, it now holds the presidency of the council of europe, the g8 presidency, but by virtue of its own weight, by virtue of its energy and other resources, and by virtue of its geographical location, we ourselves have a great interest in developing such a strategic partnership with russia accordingly.
this is necessary in order to establish the partnership, to develop the strategy of the four areas and to achieve results, particularly in the field of energy security, because russia too must know that the partnership is only possible if it recognizes the freedom of all nations in the immediate neighbourhood and beyond, and also recognizes that they must not be victims of other considerations.
is it wise to have again such a concentration of large companies, which are state-owned, which today bring in a lot of money because of high energy prices?
mr eurlings and various members pointed out that we must not trade human rights for energy; i fully agree.
we want both human rights and energy.
on energy, mr kelam referred to the interdependence between the eu and russia.
one of europe’s greatest challenges will be to reduce dependence on energy imports and on fossil fuels.
therefore, it is very important that our energy policy and the external aspects of europe’s common energy policy are very high on the agenda of the finnish presidency and, i trust, of all the future presidencies.
it was therefore quite natural that the court should now, in this context, have held, on the basis of a concrete example from environmental law, that it was not possible, here too, to split up acts which were in fact interrelated in such a way that certain aspects were allocated to a field of the treaties other than the actual objective originally pursued by them, in so far as that objective was to be attributed to the first pillar.
on the one hand, it was about addressing concrete issues in order to make progress on those issues that are closest to people: issues of prosperity, economic growth, job security, internal and external security, social security, energy security and much more.
we have also invested a great deal of time and energy in these six months in an external strategy in the area of justice and home affairs, in which we have started to build a security belt around the european union, so to speak, and have initiated a security partnership between the european union, our neighbouring countries, and russia and the united states.
another very important issue, for which pan-european solutions are also the only viable option, is sustainable development.
the guide has now been completely renewed under the austrian presidency and developed into an ambitious and comprehensive new strategy covering a whole range of key areas such as climate change, clean energy, transport, emphasis on sustainable consumption and production patterns, etc.
the issue of climate change is also on the agenda in this context.
the question of energy policy will of course also be an important subject for the european council.
as far as the council's discussion was concerned, the focus was on the need for internal measures, such as increasing energy efficiency and the switch to renewable energy sources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we are losing a clarification of competences between the different levels, we are losing the extension of co-decision and the extension of qualified majority voting, we are losing the legally binding charter of fundamental rights, we are losing a union minister for foreign affairs who would at the same time be the vice-president of the commission, we are losing more effective action in areas such as public health, food security and even energy, because the constitution extended competences in this area.
we have launched - something unthinkable two years ago - a common energy strategy for europe.
there is a set of concrete projects, not to mention the two main areas which, i believe, are shaping europe's future: energy, following the green paper we have presented, and research.
(applause) i would like to thank if we succeed in doing so, if we put all our energy into it, we shall have an opportunity next year to relaunch the process of european constitution, of building a europe which is an enlarged europe, which implies a debate on enlargement.
i believe that many of the issues on the agenda for the summit - from energy policy to development policy to the common foreign policy - and many other issues could be better dealt with by the new constitutional treaty than by the old treaty of nice.
delivering concrete results and reconnecting with european citizens will create the favourable climate that is necessary for successful institutional reforms; that is the way we motivate it.
as far as energy supplies are concerned, we are in favour of diversification: diversification of energy sources - one cannot rely on just one form of energy, nor can one exclude any form of energy - and also diversification in terms of supply.
we cannot depend on one or a few countries for energy supplies, but we need diversification there too, and the principle of solidarity applies to all the member states of the european union.
jacques delors already said in 1993 that the european union had an urgent task to ensure that the economy was restructured in an environmentally and socially just way and that it was oriented towards a sustainable strategy in order to meet future challenges.
this is shown by the decisions which proclaim unchecked growth as the key to solving today's problems, which no longer mention the third dimension - the preservation of the ecological basis - and which deny the necessary balance between the three dimensions.
the earmarking catalogue of the structural funds regulation, for example, contains just one feature for the environmental dimension out of a total of 71. the new commission slogan that the new lisbon strategy must be pursued with a view to unchecked growth is simply wrong, because it is shortsighted and lacks solidarity and is irresponsible towards the next generation.
the sustainable development website launched by the commission on 30 may is well-intentioned and very interesting, as are the two other websites on climate change and climate control.
this does not include a sustainability strategy but a catalogue of actions taken, individual problems and projects.
but i also go further and say that sustainable development is the democratic realization of the vision of a society in which everyone can live in self-determination and dignity.
sustainability, in my view, means that more and more people, locally, in europe and globally, have more and more of the conditions that are simply necessary to make peace, protection from violence, democracy, social security, nature intact, education and culture possible.
the sustainability strategy must therefore focus on three priorities: meeting the millennium development goals, combating poverty and social exclusion in the eu, reducing carbon dioxide emissions and global warming.
this means disarmament, demilitarisation, the democratization of world economic relations and our societies, and redistribution, the diversion of resources in the context of structural change, the restructuring of energy economies and, of course, the restructuring of the social division of labour.
i would like to conclude this debate by summarizing the points and objectives which we have tried to coordinate with the sustainability strategy during our presidency and which we will now try to decide in the coming days.
we have set ourselves the objective of placing this issue of sustainable development for europe and thus europe's role as a model high on the political agenda with the sustainability strategy.
the most important chapter, of course, is this will also give some measure of the success of the sustainability strategy in the coming years a strong and clearly structured implementation chapter, which provides responsibilities and powers to review implementation progress and addresses all eu institutions and policy levels clearly and clearly, eu-wide and national, local and regional.
i also see - and we should do this together - the european union's sustainability strategy as a complement to the lisbon strategy.
both strategies aim at sustainable development with different priorities and timeframes.
we also want to show that a high quality of life and the environment and a high level of social cohesion are important factors in ensuring long-term competitiveness.
sustainable development is a key innovation driver, opening up opportunities and potential for smart growth and better jobs.
sustainable development is a treaty-based overarching objective for all european policies.
we have tried to find an ad hoc solution with the 'friends of the presidency' group for the negotiations on the eu's sustainability strategy.
at council level, we will work out possible options for appropriate sustainability mechanisms until the first review of the strategy.
this institutional issue concerns all eu institutions equally and i would certainly encourage an interinstitutional dialogue beyond the adoption of the sustainability strategy.
we do not see the sustainability strategy as the end of the sustainability debate in europe, but rather as an important starting point in support of the lisbon strategy for sustainable development in europe.
i thank you again for the very constructive cooperation, not only - and i say this almost at the end of the austrian presidency of the european union - in the field of sustainability, but for the constructive cooperation overall between the european parliament and the presidency.
it goes towards improving the economic, social and environmental dimensions of our way of life.
the commission’s proposal has emphasised and given added relevance to the underpinning principles of our sustainable development policy.
we are therefore proposing a new approach aimed at making the difficult changes across society that are needed for sustainable development.
sustainable development is about a coherent approach to policy-making.
it requires an integrated approach, and in practice this means the lisbon strategy working hand-in-hand with the sustainable development strategy – two strategies working in parallel and in coordination towards the overarching objective of sustainable development.
the commission disagrees with the idea of merging the two strategies, but agrees they should be used in parallel towards achieving the overall goal of sustainable development and that they should be complementary, both in scope and in terms of governance.
concerning governance and monitoring, improving the governance of the european union’s sustainable development strategy is key to pushing forward progress.
let me assure you that in doing so it will draw on the full range of sustainable development indicators.
concerning the international dimension, sustainable development requires a global approach.
the european union should maintain its position as a world leader in sustainable development through its action at home and by addressing the effect of this.
this is essential, for example, in the drive to limit climate change.
it is also why the global dimension is an integral part of the reviewed european union’s sustainable development strategy and why that strategy advocates an integrated approach to development and external policies.
but even though this idea was present, europe very often entered a period of cruel intolerance, which is bounded by millions of dead and millions of destitute lives and those who were not physically destroyed, but lived in such an intolerant environment.
this will enable us to shift some of the freight from road to rail to save energy and better meet the requirements of kyoto.
the momentum was stepped up still further on our economic, social and environmental agenda.
there will be much more to come on this between now and the end of the year on innovation, energy, emissions trading, the european institute for technology and on very important projects for a europe of results.
in particular, the european council endorsed the commission’s proposal for a fundamental review of the single market and the programme on sustainable development.
but why does the council not say so openly and clearly and put ideas and energy into what should be done instead?
on the contrary, it is precisely this intention that will exacerbate social, environmental and global problems.
and just as alarming is the fact that, under the other interim heading 'promoting the european way of life in a globalised world', an energy policy which is out of date is being linked to the common foreign and security policy and the european security and defence policy in such a way that others in the world may feel threatened by it.
this is a very good proof that the governments do not understand sustainable development as a democratic solution to social, environmental and global problems.
i would also like to thank the environment committee of the european parliament for the unanimous adoption of the report, and the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament and the author of the opinion, mrs hennis-plasschaert, for the adoption by that committee of the inclusion of aviation in the european union's greenhouse gas trading system.
aviation is the sector that contributes about 3% of the carbon dioxide produced in the european union, but this rate is increasing rapidly.
this rate of increase in carbon dioxide is of course contributing to the further increase in the greenhouse effect, and it should be noted that it is not only carbon dioxide emitted by aircraft: there are other side effects, such as emissions that contribute to the creation of other greenhouse gases, and therefore the contribution of aviation to the greenhouse effect is much higher than the 3% contribution of carbon dioxide.
as mrs lucas said, the kyoto protocol does not cover the limitation of carbon dioxide emissions from aviation.
but that period is certainly several years away and therefore they should be included in the gas trading system now, after the co-decision procedure by the european parliament and the council, in order to achieve a limitation of the contribution of aviation to the limitation of the greenhouse effect and not to put this sector in an advantageous position compared to other sectors which contribute to the limitation of the greenhouse effect.
it is therefore particularly encouraging that not only have there been the relevant reports from parliament's committees but also that both the council of environment ministers of the european union and the heads of state and government of the european union adopted at the european council last december the inclusion of air transport in the trading system and called on the european commission to bring the relevant legislation into the codecision procedure.
i would like to make three comments on the remarks made by the committee on the environment and on the points made earlier by mrs lucas: first of all, whether a closed or an open system is better for aviation: the european parliament's committee recommendation wants the system to be closed, a separate system for aviation, either as a permanent system or at a pilot stage by 2012. the commission has taken a different approach: considers that the wider the scope covered by the trading system, the less costly it is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and therefore the lower the cost to aviation without reducing the environmental benefit.
the commission is continuing, and will continue, as you said earlier, its efforts also towards third countries to remove this system of non-taxation of kerosene, which is clearly not having any positive environmental effects.
finally, i would like to say that, beyond the inclusion of aviation in the marketing system, there are undoubtedly other measures such as those you have mentioned: improving air traffic, investing in research to develop, improve and use technologies that are more environmentally friendly, possibly using biofuels in airlines - although this is still being researched - and a number of other measures that can also be implemented in parallel to reduce the impact of aviation on climate change.
the climate impact of aviation is significant and increasing rapidly.
it cannot be argued that aviation accounts for only a small percentage of global emissions.
we always have this in the climate debate: the individual issuer always creates only one share.
but if every single emitter comes out with the argument that they only cause a small part, then we will never get to active climate action.
in addition, other modes of transport such as buses, trains and cars are already subject to very high taxes, charges and environmental requirements imposed by the european union.
that is why we have prepared amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and have also supported some amendments in this direction from the committee on transport and tourism.
we should focus on other instruments, that is, a fundamentally new emissions trading system that removes the weaknesses of the current system and a mix of other instruments.
it is important that emissions trading not only covers intra-european flights but also intercontinental traffic, at least if it lands and takes off in europe.
the weaknesses of the emissions trading system as we have it now must be overcome.
we also want to see that, with all the emphasis on emissions trading, other measures such as air traffic management continue to be pursued on an equal footing.
although aviation is responsible for only about three percent of global co2 emissions, its share of emissions is steadily growing.
our policy must aim to reduce the climate impact without cutting the growth of this key sector.
the growth and competitiveness of our airlines must not be at odds with the reduction of greenhouse gases.
the increase in the cost of flying only reduces greenhouse gases at the expense of growth, which is not absolutely necessary.
the system of including aviation in the emissions trading scheme proposed by the commission is the environmentally and economically better alternative.
in the case of eu-only emissions trading, it is necessary to ensure that european airlines are not placed at a disadvantage compared to other companies.
moreover, emissions trading must not become an end in itself but must, above all, provide incentives for investment in better technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental impact of the use of energy.
without regulatory zeal, we can achieve a considerable reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, particularly by reducing air travel and avoiding queues.
what we need first of all is a common european approach to reducing the environmental impact of air transport.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on emissions from aviation are respected.
secondly, i reject the inclusion of non-co2 climate impacts by multipliers.
the european citizens will thus have a legal framework guaranteeing them access to environmental information and also participation in environmental decision-making.
the aim of this communication is to increase transparency in environmental matters and to increase public participation in decision-making.
however, if the present text is measured against the stated objective and it clearly states that through public participation every citizen should be able to live in the environment that suits him, this cannot actually be achieved, because everyone has a different idea of the environment that surrounds him.
i also believe that it is unacceptable to grant special rights to ngos in the environmental field.
i appreciate the work of ngos, particularly in the environmental field, but i also see them as lobbyists and representatives of a particular direction, such as representatives of companies or associations.
the commission's initial proposals were a little more ambitious than what we have at the end of the conciliation committee, so it could be said that this is perhaps not the big leap for the environment.
but what has been decided brings a significant improvement in the protection of people and the environment from dangerous chemicals that can escape from batteries.
a ban on cadmium in industrial batteries would have imposed too great a burden on industry and not much good for the environment, unlike a ban on appliance batteries, because we have a working recycling system for industrial batteries.
i have been informed by the german environment agency that even operators of certain plants in the libyan desert are inquiring about how to dispose of industrial batteries, because these batteries are so large that they cannot be easily disposed of in household waste.
we're being taught to think sustainability is a big deal, not a necessary evil.
the actual task of the structural funds, to create cohesion between regions and to pursue sustainable regional development, has suddenly become secondary.
it is therefore a particular success of parliament that the regulation at least incorporates the horizontal objective of sustainable development.
i would also like to mention the partnership principle, because it is extremely important that civil society actors are involved in addition to the social partners, and that it is a must for member states to consult environmental organisations and representatives of equal opportunities for men and women.
the european parliament adopted many amendments at first reading and significantly changed the commission's proposal, particularly in the areas of strengthening the urban dimension, greater protection of the environment and cultural heritage, non-discrimination and treatment of people with disabilities, which is also reflected in the hatzidakis report.
i very much welcome the fact that this support is increasingly geared towards sustainable development, with sustainable urban transport, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy as key sectors.
we will monitor, together with the regional actors, whether the eligible sectors in the environment and transport sectors are really balanced, whether the projects are in breach of environmental regulations, whether the gothenburg objectives are respected and whether there is real involvement and not just a formal invitation of the relevant partners in the preparation of the programmes and projects.
the second key issue, which i mentioned in my opening speech, is partnership and civil society, and the third issue can be the environment, sustainable development and security.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by joan calabuig rull, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a policy framework to strengthen manufacturing in the eu pathways to a more integrated approach to industrial policy (2006/2003 (ini)) (a6-0206/2006).
i would like to say again that the purpose of the current review of community law is not to reduce any standards, such as less protection of the environment or less protection of consumers, but to make provisions as effective and modern as possible in order to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies.
we believe that modern industrial policy is a means of maintaining an attractive european location and of ensuring a competitive environment in the context of globalisation.
industry, with its high quality standards and good technological progress, has been and is the engine of economic development in europe, and all measures in the field of the environment and climate protection must also be measured in energy policy by whether they contribute to improving the framework conditions.
we believe that the basis for a successful strategy would be - and i repeat what my predecessor said - to clarify the interaction between industrial, regional, competition, trade and, last but not least, environmental policy.
question no 36 by mr andrás gyürk (h-0577/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy market surveys in the past month and their results last month, the commission carried out on-the-spot inspections of several major energy suppliers to determine how competition is being achieved in the european natural gas and energy markets.
the establishment of free competition in the energy market is crucial for healthy european economies.
since we are discussing the introduction of a possible common european energy policy in parallel with these measures and the results of the inspections will have to be used in the design of the strategy, i recommend that we make the inspection process known at the appropriate level and provide evidence of the results.
does the commission intend to take further steps towards completing the internal energy market?
as the commission confirmed on 17 may 2006, it has indeed recently carried out on-the-spot inspections of a number of major energy companies in europe.
this is a distinct exercise from the individual investigations and inspections to which the honourable member refers, but the extensive information about the functioning of the energy markets that is gathered during the sectoral inquiry will of course help to inform any enforcement action taken by the commission in individual cases.
for example, national wholesale energy markets are still highly concentrated, with few new competitors entering the sector.
the information gathered through the sectoral inquiry will also play an important role in the ongoing formulation of a common european energy policy, as agreed by the spring european council.
the commission is also conducting a review on implementation of the european regulatory measures in the energy sector.
this work is being led by the commissioner in charge of energy, mr piebalgs, and the commission will report to parliament and to the council at the turn of the year.
that report will also reflect on any further action that is needed to complete the integration of europe’s energy markets.
all the information gathered during the sectoral inquiry and the review of implementation of the liberalisation directives, together with other information received through consultation with the stakeholders, will of course play a key part in the formulation of a common european energy policy.
i have explained to the honourable member that the commission has already initiated a number of investigations where it appears that anti-competitive behaviour contributes to the problems identified by the energy sector inquiry.
regulatory changes may be needed for us to reap the full benefits of our energy markets.
once we have the full report of the inquiry into competition conditions in the energy sector, we will reflect further on what changes may be required.
my colleague, mr piebalgs, is looking at the level of current implementation of the existing liberalisation directives in the energy sector.
as the honourable member rightly mentioned, there has been quite some change to the whole energy market scene.
an open and competitive, flexible and interconnected single eu market will guarantee a secure energy position for the future as it will make the european market attractive to external suppliers; so that is all part of the game.
such a market will also be open to embracing new energy mixes.
i can tell the honourable member that we are only at the beginning of our negotiations on the energy issue, but that we have already addressed very clearly at the european summit in sochi the important issues of transparency, reciprocity and general balanced regulations.
how will the new agreement reflect the commission's 2006 green paper on a secure, competitive and sustainable energy policy?
it is very important to note that this energy question shows that today we have an interdependent relationship with russia.
it is therefore very important to find a market-oriented but transparent solution for energy supplies in the future.
what is the commission's view of the dismissals of trade unionists as a repressive measure and of the creation of a climate of fear at the workplace?
this applies both to the free movement of goods and to the guarantee of high safety, environmental and social standards.
mr president, the proposal that is the subject of mr seppänen’s report aims at modifying and replacing directive 92/3/euratom, which lays down a community uniform administrative procedure applicable to the shipment of radioactive waste.
it further takes fully into account the opinion given by the european economic and social committee on 9 june 2005, as well as the informal discussions held at the council and in parliament during 2005. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr seppänen, for the excellent report he prepared, which has received the strong support of the committee on industry, research and energy.
it enhances certainty with regard to the community uniform procedure which is applicable to the control of shipments of radioactive waste and nuclear spent fuel.
i would like to begin by thanking mr esko seppänen for his keen awareness of the problems involved in the market conditions for such a difficult commodity as nuclear waste or spent fuel.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste from nuclear power stations.
those who are concerned with the matter have already noticed the sites of mayak and chelyabinsk: recycling plants in the urals, which have been in operation for decades and which process or receive for storage not only soviet waste but also increasingly european waste.
such plants could not be operated in the eu, so europeans are not allowed to send their waste there for storage, disposal or recycling.
if we allow thousands of tonnes of nuclear waste from the european union to be exported to russia, we are taking on an ever greater responsibility.
i would like to stress that we are already responsible for the deplorable state of the environment and the health of the people in the region around mayak and chelyabinsk, since exports are not just beginning.
i am firmly convinced that the responsibility for solving the nuclear waste problem must be borne entirely by those countries which are the ones creating the problem.
our nuclear waste is not russia's fault, it is our own countries' fault.
as the presidency, we will make a special effort to ensure that the economic, social and environmental implications of legislative proposals are carefully taken into account in decision-making.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
finland's answer is that it is found in, among other things, innovation, energy solutions, quality and productivity of work, openness to world trade, immigration and a well-functioning social security system.
we will put forward initiatives, both in the council's legislative work and at the meeting of heads of state in lahti, to create an environment conducive to the creation and effective use of innovation.
the eu's external relations with regard to energy are also on the agenda of the informal meeting of heads of state in lahore.
ensuring access to affordable energy is a prerequisite for europe's economic success.
all member states are facing challenges related to rising energy prices, security of supply and climate change.
energy policy choices are largely national issues.
the european union needs common energy policy guidelines and, in particular, a coherent policy in its external energy relations.
the finnish presidency will be a forum for strategic debate on how the objectives of energy policy should be reflected in the union's external relations.
energy use and the choice of energy sources are inextricably linked to the most serious environmental threat of our time, climate change.
in the context of climate policy, a particularly important issue is the promotion of negotiations on the development of the un climate treaty system after 2012. finland, as chair, will seek to promote international discussions that can lead to an ambitious agreement covering all countries with a climate change focus, in line with the eu's objective.
a comprehensive framework would not only help to respond to the climate challenge as effectively as possible, but also to safeguard the eu's competitiveness.
both topics - energy and climate change - will be strongly featured at summits with third countries during the finnish presidency, including the 10th anniversary eu-asia summit in helsinki.
there must be a balance between reforms, social security and environmental sustainability.
however, new practices and modern technology often contribute to both economic growth and prosperity and reduce environmental emissions.
eu-russia relations go beyond trade and energy to a comprehensive partnership, where we are united by european values and global interests.
at the same time, we propose a partnership approach for energy, based on mutual interests and agreed principles.
next week prime minister vanhanen and i will travel to st petersburg for the g8 summit to determine, i hope, a new framework for the global energy challenges which require a global response.
for energy, as for climate change, we need this global response.
political support must now be translated into concrete actions which create a more innovative climate in europe.
i am always reluctant to give advice and do not want to waste my time answering mr schulz's interlocutory calls.
we say yes to common interests, including energy supply, but we must also tell russia that human rights must be respected.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the european union's individual countries are not large or small, nor are they able to meet the economic, ecological and social challenges of today.
with your experience, you can develop relationships here that could be extremely constructive, including energy security and other issues.
i expect the commission, as in the debate this morning, to bring up the human rights and environmental situation in the urals around the mayak and chelyabinsk reprocessing plants with president putin on the spot.
we expect, mr president, that the commission's report on the emissions trading system will be available during finland's presidency, and naturally finland will have a good opportunity to bring its own national experience to the table in the debate on this subject.
it should also be noted that, as prime minister vanhanen said earlier today, climate change issues will be very central to cooperation with the transatlantic and asian countries during finland's presidency and, hopefully, beyond.
tribute also has to be paid in this context to the energy deployed by the uk and austrian presidencies.
combat europe's contribution to the migration of war refugees through arms exports and reduce the emissions of europe and its trading partners if you want to reduce migration, mainly caused by climate change and the spread of deserts!
fair prices, fair working and production conditions, respect for environmental standards, which benefits the quality of life of producers in the south and consumers in the north alike.
transparency, compliance with the core conventions of the international labour organisation on occupational safety and health and child labour in production, compliance with environmental standards, support for production and market access by producer organisations and monitoring of compliance with these criteria.
there are other organisations and ngos, such as the rainforest alliance, which deliver many of the same environmental and social benefits by working in collaboration with mainstream companies.
the proposal is designed to benefit the internal market, the citizens, the car industry and the environment.
the proposal also promotes sustainability by implementing fiscal measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from passenger cars, as it establishes a more direct relationship between taxation levels and carbon dioxide emissions.
i want to emphasise that the proposed measures would make passenger car taxation citizen-friendly, car-industry-friendly and environment-friendly.
the report adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs contains a contradiction in one point, namely article 4. we have adopted two different, mutually exclusive approaches, and our group therefore wishes to make it clear once again that we want to base the assessment of future motor vehicle taxes strictly on co2 emissions.
as mr wiersma said earlier, energy efficiency is of course also an issue.
our line is quite clear: we want a strict approach to co2 emissions, regardless of the technology used, the consumption and the size of the car, so that it is purely environmentally friendly.
if we were to use this instrument to start an action against, say, larger cars, we would be wrong, because it is the larger models, the more expensive cars, that bring about the technological progress in car manufacture, where important safety and environmental measures are first enforced, because in these more expensive cars a new technology can be better developed.
these vintage cars tend to have relatively high emissions because they are based on old technology.
i have followed the opinion on behalf of my group in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and have therefore also dealt with the dossier and i would now like to concentrate on two main points: first of all, i should like to say that i very much welcome the abolition of the registration tax proposed by the commission.
i am also in favour of a direct proportional relationship between taxation and co2 emissions, as are my colleagues, and mr langen in particular.
every gram of co2 emitted has the same effect on the climate and should therefore be taxed at the same rate.
proportional taxation ensures that vehicles with higher co2 emissions are taxed at a higher rate than those with lower co2 emissions.
this is crucial for climate protection.
firstly, from an environmental point of view, it makes sense to include all emissions as a basis for taxing passenger cars.
both co2 emissions, which are responsible for climate change, and emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which are responsible for ozone formation and lung diseases, should be included in the taxation.
secondly, from the consumer and environmental point of view, the abolition of the registration tax is still welcome.
perhaps the abolition of registration tax in europe will stop this re-import trade and reduce the average age of the motor vehicle fleet, which will ultimately benefit the environment.
so let us finally slaughter this sacred cow of admission taxes - also and perhaps especially because of the environmental aspect!
tax measures are one of the three pillars of the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from cars.
the tax should not be linked to co2 emissions only, but to pollutant emissions in general.
because in addition to co2 - and this has been said many times already - there are also nitrogen oxides and, of course, particulate emissions.
the abolition of the registration tax - i am convinced of this - will have positive environmental effects, because of course it will lead to a faster renewal of the vehicle fleet.
the tax base for motor vehicle taxes should therefore generally be emissions.
and in order to ensure fair and neutral taxation, the tax rates must be defined in direct proportion to the emissions of pollutants.
the annual emission-related control load must increase linearly with increasing emissions.
mr president, firstly i should like to thank the rapporteur and those meps who supported the abolition of registration taxes, the establishment of refund systems for car taxes and the application of fiscal measures to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and improve fuel economy.
the latter implements the third-pillar measures provided for by the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars endorsed by the council in 1996. it is the only pillar of the three that make up the strategy that has not yet been implemented at community level.
i now turn to the group of amendments suggesting that car tax differentiation should be based not only on carbon dioxide emissions but also on other pollutants – in particular amendments 1, 2, 7, 8, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 25, 26, 27, 30 and 36. in principle the commission encourages member states to apply coordinated fiscal incentives under certain conditions – for example, to expedite the placing on the market of passenger cars satisfying future requirements.
however, mixing the objectives on carbon dioxide emissions covered by the kyoto protocol with those on pollutant emissions covered by the sixth environmental action programme would lead to increased internal market fragmentation in the area of passenger cars and endanger the whole compromise in the council.
as far as the commission is concerned, it is not necessary to include fuel consumption or fuel efficiency, because co2 emissions and fuel efficiency are directly linked.
the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr luis de grandes pascual, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the multiannual financing of the activities of the european maritime safety agency in the field of marine pollution from ships and amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 (com (2005) 0210 c6-0153/2005 2005/0098 (cod)) (a6-0184/2006).
it is certainly right and sensible to have them carry out operational tasks in the field of pollution control.
the agency has the expertise to support member states in preventing and combating marine pollution, with a focus on support.
we believe that the provision of insufficient community funds is simply a waste of money.
i think that the regulation on the financing of measures to combat marine pollution will provide that financial basis.
it is important to emphasize that marine pollution is not just about disasters.
we have had prestige and erika, but we also have the daily rubbish on our seas, namely the illegal oil spills; and if environmental organizations have counted correctly, we have 3,000 illegal oil spills a year in european seas.
commissioner dimas has described life+ and other options, but please within your national financial framework, and not at the expense of environmental protection in other countries.
the question then arises: what does trade in the different countries do to raise social standards, to improve environmental protection, to improve the quality of life?
overcoming poverty, reducing social divisions and taking strong action to protect the climate are, in my view, the greatest challenges, including for the eu's internal market.
this is where major reforms are needed to ensure sustainable financing.
climate change is one of the most important challenges we face as politicians.
emissions trading should be one of the main instruments to meet this challenge.
the european parliament, when it was deciding on emissions trading under the codecision procedure, was in favour of very clear, precise guidelines.
as for the next phase, the objective must not be that emissions trading should work somehow, as in the first phase, but that it should work well.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european environment agency.
i want to do this because germany will be holding the presidency of the council of the european union and the g8 next year, because these are crucial presidencies in the context of climate change and energy policy.
on the contrary, the way in which the allowances are allocated already suggests that some of the major german energy suppliers will again use this emissions trading alone to justify price increases, as we have already seen in the last year.
it is also clear that germany - as this allocation plan shows - is giving up any incentive to switch from coal to lower carbon fuels.
i think that's a disgrace and totally unacceptable given the current climate debate.
if the eu is to continue to play its leading role in climate protection in the future - and it should - the federal republic of germany, which will bear the decisive responsibility for kyoto and the post-kyoto process, must be asked to correct itself.
for example, in our northern climate, the annual temperature whether winter is cold or warm and the water situation have a very important impact not only on energy consumption but also on energy production and thus also on emissions, so that annual variations can be large.
we certainly agree, however, that despite its shortcomings, this system is absolutely necessary and must be vigorously pursued in the direction of its original objective, namely to provide a genuine and real incentive for operators to invest in low-carbon, environmentally friendly technology.
looking further ahead, concerning the review, i am now preparing a high-quality review of the european union emissions trading scheme to identify improvements to be made beyond 2012. this could not be done before because until 30 june 2006 we had not even received the actual emissions.
the emissions were reported on 15 may 2006, but some countries sent their actual emissions on 30 june 2006. so how could we have the review before we received the actual emissions?
later this year, following the adoption of the european union emissions trading system review report in the coming weeks, the commission will activate a stakeholder group under the auspices of the european climate change programme to intensify the debate on the review.
the commission has already confirmed its intention to address aviation’s climate change impact through emissions trading.
there are a number of good ideas to make emissions trading more effective, including giving longer-term certainty on allocations and increasing harmonisation in a number of areas.
the electricity price rose, not only because of the emissions trading system, but mainly because of high fuel prices and because of the lack of competition in the power and gas market – a lack of liberalisation.
looking back, we can say that the infrastructure for emissions trading is sound and the market in allowances is developing rather well.
so, no one can say that the emissions trading system has failed.
i would like to say a few words about the so-called ‘over-allocation’ of allowances to installations that are covered by the emissions trading system.
it is a fact that we had about 3% more allowances allocated than actual emissions.
that could be for various reasons, one of which could be that companies’ installations reacted to the emissions saving system and the obligations arising from the system, and they have made the most obvious and easiest reductions in emissions by improving energy efficiency, for example, or through other easy-to-take measures.
it was the case in germany that we had a real reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide from installations.
another reason could be the very mild winter that we had in 2005, which reduced the cost of heating, and – perhaps the main reason – the companies participating in the system were over-optimistic about their business growth and over-estimated their emissions, while the member states were complacent in accepting their figures.
also, the actual emissions that we have now should be taken into full account.
the onus is firstly on governments to propose plans to the commission which ensure that the european union emissions trading system delivers its contribution to achieving our quota targets.
at the same time, all stakeholders should engage in the process of improving and expanding the european union scheme, so as to secure a global carbon market that can deliver the emissions reductions necessary to tackle climate change.
i would like to thank you for the rich debate with encouraging and important contributions and for your continued support for the fight against global warming and the threat posed to future generations.
it is true that given the situation of oil prices, a number of initiatives have been studied and included in the five-point plan presented by commissioner piebalgs since september 2005. these were further developed in the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
the commission aims gradually to reduce the eu’s dependency on imported oil by creating energy efficiency, on the one hand, and by replacing it, on the other hand, with other energy sources, including biomass and other renewables.
it has been discussed in the college of commissioners and in the council, as have other areas such as the use of wind and solar energy.
question no 41 by mr florenz (h-0639/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: classification of secondhand smoke as a human carcinogenin its resolution of 23 february 2006 on the european action plan on the environment and health 2004-2010, parliament encouraged the commission to classify tobacco smoke in the environment as a category i carcinogen as soon as possible.
the world health organisation, the finnish and german governments and us agencies have already classified environmental tobacco smoke as a human carcinogen.
on the one hand, in the consultation document we are to bring forward on the smoke-free environment, we shall ensure that we refer to the classification of ets as a carcinogen – the one made by who, the us, germany and finland, so that we give the right information.
our target, as you will realise from the paper we are to produce, is a smoke-free environment in the european union.
given the recent messages from germany regarding promoting a smoke-free environment, i am hopeful that they will look into that and that special legislation will come into force in 2007.
member of the commission.
there will be a meeting between the maltese authorities and representatives of dg environment this month.
however, this trade should also be banned because it seriously damages sustainability and leads to collapses in the populations of many wild birds.
asked about the impact of this trade on conservation, commissioner dimas assured the environment ministers in december 2005 that the commission would examine the impact of this trade from a conservation perspective.
we came to the conclusion that the m-30 ring road project was not subject to a proper impact assessment pursuant to council directive 85/337/eec on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, in particular with regard to some of the subprojects into which the m-30 ring road project is divided.
i think it is a serious omission, however, that neither the report of the committee on the environment nor the commission's proposal contains a comprehensive analysis of the causes.
we know that pollution, poor nutrition, food allergies affect our physical and mental well-being.
the nervous system disorders caused by environmental toxins and pesticides, and the relationship between attention deficit disorder and food intolerance, are finally in need of urgent analysis.
i do not want to go into toxicological and environmental causes here, that would be a separate dossier.
body, soul and social environment.
the eu will need to continue supporting kosovo’s government in setting up a modern, open, market-oriented and business-friendly environment, based on eu-compatible structural reforms.
legal certainty and a well-functioning business environment are necessary preconditions for making economic progress in kosovo.
we also need further support in areas such as improving environmental conditions, sustainable energy and transport infrastructure and in establishing truly independent media.
for all of us in the council, it has always been clear that there cannot be any sustainable stability and peace in lebanon, or elsewhere in the region, without a return to the peace process between israel and palestine that is based on the roadmap and its goal of the two-state solution, with israel living in peace and security with an independent and viable palestinian state as its neighbour.
for a long time people in the region have wanted nothing more than peace and security, and they have become increasingly frustrated by their leaders’ inability or even unwillingness to deliver this, thus fostering a climate which has allowed extremism to thrive.
the commission has also responded to the environmental disaster and has supported the lebanese government through the community civil protection mechanism in order to tackle the huge environmental damage.
by focusing on some concrete and pragmatic measures that can bring about some positive and tangible results, we can help to create the appropriate climate and facilitate a re-engagement between the parties.
this is true across the board, whether on environment and climate change, energy security, non-proliferation, global and regional security, economic and trade relations and specific issues such as illegal migration.
to be sustainable, economic growth must be accompanied by social and political reform.
secondly, china has a vital role to play in creating more stable international energy markets and dealing with environmental challenges.
however, the european union must also send firm and very consistent messages on our areas of interest, such as the need for social and political reform to ensure china’s sustainability, the importance of international non-proliferation regimes, and immediate market access and a level playing field for eu companies.
there is particular eu expertise on a range of issues relating to internal stability where china wants help, for instance on energy, the environment, regional integration and public health, and we should exploit this as fully as possible.
it is also important to help overcome political crises, as china does in a way with iran, but at the same time china is buying energy everywhere, for example in darfur.
we share the concerns expressed in the draft resolution in relation to the recent violations and we are concerned about the climate of impunity and non-respect of human rights by both sides.
the european community has a right to pursue the highest possible aim of environmental legislation and standards throughout europe.
it is undeniable that high levels of air pollution, especially in densely populated regions and urban centres of the eu, are responsible for many respiratory diseases and their consequences.
pollution knows no bounds.
the only way to combat air pollution in the long term and within the european framework is to strengthen crossborder measures.
in the european parliament, we negotiated a package of compromise proposals between the three major groups before the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in july and in view of the forthcoming vote in the plenary, which in short follows the following approach: ambitious limit values and targets on the one hand, more flexibility and taking into account the difficulties of implementation of the current directive in the member states on the other.
i would like to stress at this point that this is not about diluting limit values, as is also very much criticised by environmental associations.
it has now been demonstrated that, regardless of any air pollution control measures, compliance with the daily limit values is largely contingent on the chance of meteorological events.
the environment committee and the three large groups in this house support the compromise proposal which would give the towns and municipalities concerned a little more flexibility and allow them to comply with the limit of a maximum of 55 days instead of 35 days as before, with a reduction of the annual limit of around 20% from 2010 onwards under certain conditions.
i look at the commission and say: i am waiting for your proposals - you have announced them - which deal with reducing pollution at source.
the reduction of the annual limit for particulate matter creates incentives for long-term and sustainable actions such as environmental zones or the introduction of particulate filters.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the main focus of improving air quality is on the limit values for pm 10 and pm 2.5. the environment committee voted on 21 june for ambitious annual limits for pm 10 and pm 2.5. it is important for eu member states not only to define the limit values for good air quality, but also to develop the tools to comply with the defined limit values.
everyone here today has mentioned the importance of a clean environment.
the question of renewable fuels is not the only one that is crucial, but also the question of what we actually have for fuels today.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
many municipalities already have an ambitious policy on air pollution: modernisation of vehicle fleets, environmental zones, etc.
but that is precisely what is to be done with the lazy compromise of the environment committee.
it would be a shame - and i hope that we will not lose sight of the european air quality policy tomorrow - if europe lost sight of its role as a pioneer in the field of the environment and the sustainability of industry, especially the automotive industry.
air pollution kills more than 350 000 people in europe, 65 000 of them in germany.
mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to discuss this evening the thematic strategy on the urban environment, which the european parliament has been awaiting with great interest from the commission.
i would first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr hegyi, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the comprehensive and ambitious report before us today.
but a clear path has now been set for the key environmental issues, which include urban environment policy.
the urban environment is an important issue for all of us.
with the sixth environment action programme, the commission recognised the role that the urban environment plays in the lives of so many european citizens and committed itself to action in this area.
the urban environment directly affects the way of life of millions of european citizens and also has significant effects on the environment in general.
european cities must be viable, sustainable and offer a high quality of life so that citizens want to live and work there and businesses want to invest.
the other side is that the many problems associated with living in cities, such as environmental degradation, traffic congestion, economic and social exclusion, crime and alienation.
the strategy aims to promote and facilitate sustainable urban development and focuses on environmental issues: air pollution, outdoor noise, high traffic levels, greenhouse gas emissions, slum building, water consumption and waste generation.
this is particularly true where the aim is to find solutions which could be both experimental and sustainable, appropriate to the multiplicity and variety of conditions and problems faced by the different cities of the european union.
this is why, although the european commission and the committee on the environment agree on the substance, they differ on how they should proceed.
there are already legislative acts which will have positive effects on the urban environment if properly implemented.
legislation already exists that has a positive impact on the environment and the quality of life in cities.
consider, for example, all the legislation we have on air quality, noise, waste and water - to name just a few of the issues it covers.
instead of legislative solutions, the strategy proposes guidance on how to improve urban management in an integrated way and increase sustainability in transport to be included in the green paper on urban transport expected to be adopted in 2007. this will lead to better compliance with the applicable environmental legislation and to improved coherence between different policies and different levels of government.
on behalf of the committee of the regions, i particularly and explicitly welcome the special attention paid to sustainable urban and transport planning.
the urban planning of the future must of course combine ecological, economic and social aspects; it must include the promotion of employment opportunities and of education, culture and sport for young and old alike.
this will not only benefit the local environment but also be an excellent way of communicating the objectives of european policies to the local citizens.
i know, mr president, that we both want the same thing, namely a livable environment in the large cities and conurbations of the european union.
on air, noise, waste, etc.
for example, environmental protection is important.
the quality of life in cities depends on the quality of the environment and the economic vitality.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
that does not mean - and the committee on industry, research and energy has said so - that we are in favour of a framework directive.
public transport, waste management, social services, water supply - we all agree that this is the responsibility of the regions.
basic services such as energy, transport, education, health, housing and hospitals are being left to the rules of the market and profit, partly under the auspices of brussels' liberalization regulations, partly under pressure from the european court of justice, partly on the initiative of neoliberal governments - allegedly because this creates jobs, allegedly because more competition would bring lower prices to consumers, allegedly because private investors would operate more efficiently.
hundreds of thousands of jobs have been destroyed in the energy and postal sectors alone.
we should continue to call on all parties to take a path whereby the limited market activity in the municipal environment is not necessarily subject to the procedure of all european rules, so as not to divert the municipalities from this path of public-private partnerships which is beneficial for citizens.
as the shadow rapporteur of the epp-ed group on the report on the thematic strategy for the urban environment, i have today asked the members of my group to abstain in the final vote.
the improvement of the urban environment through such measures is essential, especially in the new member states.
i abstained in the vote on the report on the thematic strategy for the urban environment.
the improvement of the urban environment through such measures is essential, especially in the new member states.
the full and effective implementation of reforms is essential to ensure their sustainability and continuity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the most important point is probably the clear statement that we want a sustainable development of the european union, that we are not only looking at short-term economic objectives, but are striving for a sustainable improvement, a sustainable improvement in working and living conditions, especially in the less-favoured and underdeveloped regions of the european union.
we have stressed that we are not looking to create any jobs in the european union, but to create jobs of better quality and sustainable for the future.
it is a recognition that the world has changed and that we need to redirect efforts towards new priorities in order to achieve sustainable cohesion.
the un operation is essential to improve the security situation in darfur and to implement the peace agreement in a sustainable manner.
this transfer is essential to restore a climate of trust between the protagonists and to allow a serious relaunch of the abuja peace agreement for darfur, to get the non-signatories to sign it, to support the concrete implementation of the agreement, to avoid calling into question the architecture resulting from the north-south peace agreement.
on gender-impact assessments, gender has been included in recent trade sustainability impact assessments.
renewable energy, in particular biofuels, represents one such measure.
regarding maximum sustainable yields, a number of stocks were brought into long-term management plans some years ago, which included low-target fishing mortalities, such as mackerel, herring and, more recently, haddock.
discussions concerning the maximum sustainable yield should also take place, but that is a wider-scale issue.
i can accept the argument that a three-year tac will give greater security to fishermen, but not the argument that a three-year tac would mean greater sustainability.
this is the balance that is reflected in this report - at least as adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy.
the role of politics is to protect consumers and the environment.
we know little about environmental toxicity, so we cannot ignore it and bury our heads in the sand, but we ask you as the commission to finally create a legal framework to protect consumers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet the needs of the world market.
the european union could commit itself to the implementation of drinking water and waste water supply for the african continent together with local partners.
we should therefore ask the commission to present a timetable for the time when all sub-saharan metropolises will be able to be provided with sustainable drinking water and waste water systems.
this needs to be addressed and made sustainable and practical, especially for smes.
i would remind you once again that there was a time when the united states of america, under the leadership of president bill clinton, agreed on concrete energy procurement programmes with north korea.
finally, mr president, i would like to remind all those who are always suggesting that the problems of mankind should be solved by the development of nuclear energy that any nuclear power plant or enrichment plant that is built is an incalculable risk to the whole world in the hands of a criminal such as the dictator in north korea.
we are witnessing a game of rabbit and vulture by the iranian government, which is becoming less and less convinced that all this is happening just to secure its own peaceful use of nuclear energy.
i can only say at this point that all those who advocate the so-called spread of the civil use of nuclear energy are at the same time ensuring that its military use takes place.
we have heard wonderful speeches by mrs lehtomäki and mr barroso on innovation, immigration, energy policy, the russian partnership, darfur.
you are right, mr president of the commission, that investment in innovation is essential, not only here but in all member states, particularly in research and development of energy efficiency technology.
one of the key issues in the coming years is whether we can meet the exponentially growing demand for energy in this world by achieving greater energy efficiency.
incidentally, greater energy efficiency also means abandoning the waste economy, which means technological developments, investment in research that helps to ensure that what we can develop in products is designed to reduce energy consumption, not increase it.
i do not want to repeat here what others have rightly said: sustainable development in the so-called third world is root-cause control in immigration policy.
we must understand that this country, in its energy partnership and above all its partnership in the context of conflict resolution worldwide - whether in iran or in the middle east, wherever it is, russia is undoubtedly needed - will try, with equal rights, to cooperate with us on an equal footing.
the us wish in the negotiations was to change the previous arrangement to better reflect the changed operating environment.
when i look at the interplay between animal welfare, animal health, sustainability, environmental and food safety, that's still true today.
in the areas of public procurement, services and investment rules, the eu is taking an aggressive stance, for example by calling for equal access to mercosur governments' public procurement contracts in the water, transport and energy sectors.
(applause from the centre)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the reintegration of women with breast cancer into the labour market and the use of social fund funds for the training of medical staff in the field of breast cancer, by jan andersson and karin jöns, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-0098/2006 b6-0433/2006), the oral question to the commission on the early detection and treatment of breast cancer in the enlarged european union, by karl-heinz florenz and karin jöns, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-00101/2006 b6-0434/2006), and the oral question to the commission on breast cancer, by anna karin záborská and jöns, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0036/2006 b6-0411/2006).
new studies confirm that harmful environmental influences in the form of toxic chemicals or increased radiation are responsible for half of all breast cancers.
we have set the course for greater health and environmental protection in europe in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
on research, i should like to repeat that environmental causes are part of the plan.
gene-environment interaction and cancer development will also cover lifestyle and other major risk factors.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the environmental committee tried to save what could be saved.
the committee on budgets has accepted all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment.
the only area which gives us hope for the future, because the development and the financing are positive, is the agencies, not just those for which the committee on the environment is responsible as a committee of experts, but all of them.
but europe should also do more to promote a future-oriented energy policy.
we should invest more in research into renewable energy.
in budget implementation, we must do more to combat the waste of eu money the simple catch-all effects and the lack of efficiency.
there are two bodies responsible for monitoring community environmental legislation, which accounts for 40% of our legislation.
they have the potential to lead to unacceptable risks to human health and the state of the environment.
derogations are provided for essential uses in small quantities which, according to the opinion of the scientific committee on health and environmental risks of the commission, do not pose unacceptable risks.
the proposed directive not only protects human health and the environment but will also strengthen the internal market by introducing harmonised rules for the marketing and use of pfos and related substances throughout the community.
i also welcome the fact that the compromise does not take into account some of the demands made by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, such as the early inclusion of pfoa without a prior risk assessment.
the problem with pfos is not the use of the substance in these industries, but rather the fact that the substance is still in old textiles such as carpets or clothing and from there it is released into the environment.
the eu chemicals legislation must strike a balance between the socioeconomically sound use of certain substances and high environmental standards.
we have a serious problem with pfos, and it has no local causes, but we have found that the trail of this massive pollution leads to other european countries - probably to belgium and the netherlands.
the exception for fire extinguishers has been deleted in a sensible way, since unlimited quantities can be released into the environment.
but you in the council, you, mr vanhanen, and the heads of state and government, you must put into practice what you say about energy policy in your national energy plans!
(applause from the centre) and, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not want to become dependent on russian energy, we must put an end to the wasteful energy economy in europe, in the united states and in the industrialized countries!
if you want to limit the climate catastrophe, you have to reduce co2 emissions!
but this cannot be done with russian natural gas, but with more energy efficiency, with more renewable energy, with power plants, with combined heat and power, with power plants that have the highest efficiency.
it may be difficult to reconcile european energy security with our european core values.
the yukos case, the arrest of khodorkovsky and lebedev, the war in chechnya - in terms of energy policy and human rights - remain current examples of the arbitrariness of the putin government.
energy policy and human rights must be negotiated together and not played off against each other.
there are no reliable guarantees of energy security, according to putin.
in lahti an important step was taken in energy policy, but in my view it was not a milestone.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis.
firstly, the issue of security of supply has been placed at the heart of energy policy and has contributed to the fact that we may also refrain in this parliament - i hope - from discussing energy policy only from the point of view of climate policy.
at the latest since the developments in ukraine, since it became clear that russia, that president putin uses energy policy as a political tool, we are all a bit more willing - and we felt a lot of this in lahti - to take this issue more seriously.
the second step would be to promote more european competence in the field of energy policy.
last but not least, the diversity of energy sources is also part of this.
the moldavian conflict must not be sacrificed to energy relations with russia!
we need to continue to encourage moldova to press on with key reforms on democracy, the rule of law and human rights and to improve the business climate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is very concerned about the recent environmental disaster in côte d'ivoire involving the probo koala.
it once again brought the world's attention to the serious threats posed by waste shipments to developing countries.
the european union has indicated its readiness to assist, together with the united nations, in protecting human health and the environment where the impact of the case has been particularly severe.
recent events in west africa have also reminded us of the importance of effectively implementing the agreements on the control of transboundary movements and treatment of hazardous waste.
these include the basel convention and its 1995 amendment, the marpol convention on the prevention of marine pollution by ships and regional maritime protection agreements.
the basel convention amendment prohibited the export of hazardous waste from eu and oecd countries and liechtenstein to other countries.
these include illegal waste shipments, ship dismantling, contract financing, synergy between the waste and chemicals cluster and monitoring of the strategic plan for the implementation of the convention.
as part of this preparatory work, the environment council held a thorough debate on 23 october, the day after, at the end of which the president drew conclusions on the eu's preparations for the basel cop.
the conclusions stress the importance of taking decisive and effective action to tackle illegal transboundary movements of hazardous waste.
it is important that as many other countries as possible, in addition to the current ratifiers, ratify the amendment to the ban on the export of hazardous waste so that it can enter into force worldwide as soon as possible.
as you know, the ban is already in force in all eu member states, as it has been fully implemented by the waste shipment regulation.
the revised eu waste shipment regulation, which will come into force next july, also contains provisions to improve cooperation on its implementation at both member state and eu level.
there is also a directive on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues, compliance with which may also be a matter of concern in the probo koala case.
in a debate held the other day, the environment ministers also stressed that effective enforcement of existing legislation is a priority for the eu.
the key to preventing illegal waste shipments is to increase the harmonisation of environmental and maritime legislation, particularly at international level, and to improve cooperation between public authorities.
the most important thing is that all types of waste are treated in an environmentally acceptable way, no matter where it occurs.
the conclusions of the chair also stress the need for external assistance to help developing countries implement the basel convention and manage waste in an environmentally sound manner.
developing countries should also integrate waste management into their poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies.
the presidency also met the cote d'ivoire delegation in the context of the environment council, from which it received up-to-date information on the case.
the scale of the environmental disaster is enormous: in addition to the loss of many lives, the acute health effects are extensive.
disasters also have significant ecological impacts, on livelihoods, on human living conditions and on the functioning of communities.
i now turn to the oral question by mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety: the member states of the european union have attached importance to the development of eu-wide legislation and cooperation in the prevention, investigation and prosecution of environmental crime.
environmental crimes are typically international in nature, as the effects of illegal emissions extend far beyond national borders.
however, as the honourable member states in his question, the council framework decision of 27 january 2003 on the protection of the environment by criminal law was annulled by the court of justice of the european communities on 13 september 2005. on 25 november 2005, the commission sent a communication to the european parliament and the council on the consequences of the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities.
mr president, the recent incident of toxic waste dumping in côte d'ivoire has dramatic consequences.
although the actual circumstances surrounding this heinous environmental crime have yet to be clarified, the need to strictly enforce the ban on the export of hazardous waste to africa has become much more urgent.
when the incident occurred, commission representatives - and in particular teams from the member states - were on the scene to help the victims and to help protect the natural environment.
the institutions and the member states of the european union must consider all possible means of supporting the victims in côte d'ivoire and contribute as much as possible to the elimination of pollution.
if we look beyond the ivory coast incident, we find that there is a serious gap in the member states' compliance with the european union regulation on shipments of waste.
this regulation contains clear rules prohibiting the export of hazardous waste to developing countries.
these rules are to be tightened up and, from july next year, will impose on member states the obligation to carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections and to cooperate in cases of illegal shipments of waste.
environmental crime is one of the most serious problems facing the community.
the environmental damage it can cause is enormous.
the provision of effective penalties, including criminal penalties, is essential for the proper application of community environmental legislation.
in 2001 the commission put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
the proposal was to establish a minimum number of criminal offences relating to the environment throughout the community and to provide for effective criminal penalties in all member states for such offences.
the european court of justice has now clarified that criminal measures necessary to ensure the effective implementation of environmental policy can be adopted under the first pillar.
a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law - under the first pillar - will bring about better protection of the environment, while at the same time being a more democratic method in the legislative process.
environmental crimes continue to be committed and we must put in place the necessary legal measures to deal with them.
the original proposal dates back to 2001, since then there have been many changes in environmental legislation and therefore the proposal needs to be adapted accordingly.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the legal framework for the protection of the environment.
the toxic waste scandal in côte d'ivoire is a truly abhorrent act.
i therefore expressly confirm: it is a humanitarian disaster, an environmental disaster, and a scandal.
i would like to know whether it is checked whether there is really a consent of the state to which the toxic waste is being shipped.
it is not just a health and environmental scandal, by the way, it is also a competition scandal.
if we do not close this gap in our country, and in the basle convention, we will encourage people who are not so strict with the law to export pollution.
mr president, apart from decision-making, it is of course very important to monitor the operation and to keep a constant eye on the changing environment.
on the nuclear issue, the council has repeatedly stated its commitment to a diplomatic solution that takes account of international concerns about iran's nuclear programme, while at the same time strengthening iran's right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy in accordance with the npt.
in this context, on 17 october the council noted the continued efforts made by the high representative, mr javier solana, since june to encourage iran to respond to the demands of the international atomic energy agency's governing council and the un security council and to continue discussions on long-term arrangements.
these far-reaching proposals would form the basis of a long-term agreement and give iran everything it needs to develop a modern civilian energy sector, taking into account international concerns.
on the subject of pollution from ships, it is true that we must, madam president, but without exaggeration, consider reducing the sulphur content of fuel used for inland navigation.
this reduction in sulphur levels is essential to reduce air pollution.
we are revising the air pollution directives with the aim of substantially reducing sulphur levels.
for example, construction and maintenance of motorways, airports or waste management.
i don't think it's sustainable that we end up at 100%.
as already emphasised on several occasions, such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to make an ongoing contribution towards supporting sustainable economic growth and job creation in the euro area, fully in line with article 105 of the ec treaty.
in 2005, the ecb's monetary policy operated in an environment of increasingly improving economic conditions.
while real gdp growth remained moderate in the first half of the year, in an environment of heightened uncertainties surrounding domestic demand, the pace of economic activity gradually strengthened during the second half of the year, from around 1.2% on average year-on-year in the first half of 2005 to around 1.7% on average year-on-year in the second half.
while annual hicp inflation eased to 2.0% in the first half of 2005, mainly reflecting base effects, hicp inflation rates accelerated to levels significantly above 2% in the second half, reaching a peak of 2.6% in september, mainly on the back of substantial increases in energy prices.
that being said, it is clear that there are potential risks to financial stability from their very rapidly growing presence in the financial system and it has yet to be tested whether they would amplify market volatility or pose greater counterparty risks in a less benign financial market environment.
i don't want to waste our time; the former president has done enough.
fourth, we are increasingly demanding renewable energy, and we know that with wind power, we are contributing to the fact that reliability in the grids is a problem.
i hope that this case will help us to deal with energy policy issues in a more sober and objective way, so that we do not make contradictory demands that cannot be met.
that report will be presented to parliament and the council and will look at the overall objectives and results of the 2003 reform, namely market orientation, competitiveness and the sustainability of the cap in political, environmental and economic and budgetary terms.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs hennicot-schoepges, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a joint undertaking for the creation of the new generation european air traffic management system (sesar) (com (2005) 0602 - c6-0002/2006 - 2005/0235 (cns)) (a6-0382/2006).
clearly, climate change is the challenge at hand!
of course, energy policy is the focal point for next year!
my group colleagues will be discussing the various policy areas, such as energy, climate change and also legal policy.
i believe that this is leading to an aggravation of global social and environmental problems.
there are also alternatives, which in my view can be summed up in three projects: the democratic union, the socially and environmentally sustainable union and the eu peace-making force, which seeks to solve global problems in a spirit of solidarity and democracy.
economic growth should take precedence over sustainable development.
this is a step away from the interconnectedness of economic, social and environmental objectives.
how does the commission explain that it is using earmarking catalogues to withdraw money from the structural funds for territorial cohesion and the sustainable development of all regions, and that it is only pursuing a policy for prosperous cities and successful economic centres, whereas many regions of europe, young people in the suburbs and in rural areas, are not given any comparable importance at all?
sustainable development must be put back at the centre of european policy.
i hope that the declaration does not talk too much about the past, but more about the future, because europe started with energy.
it may also contain a vision for the future, for example by proposing a major energy project which meets all the criteria we are seeking.
we can't let a million signatures go to waste.
but what i have heard is really a common call for sustainable development, meaning that a majority of you have mentioned the need to create jobs and growth.
it has to be sustainable growth, which means we have to take account of natural resources, energy issues and environmental constraints.
that is exactly what sustainable development is all about, making sure that we do it the european way, ensuring that all these three elements are covered by an ambitious policy for jobs and growth in europe.
security includes making sure we can live free from terrorist threats and crime and from environmental pollution.
i have heard so many proposals for things that ought to be added to the list and things that you have missed – initiatives or legislative proposals – that should be on this list: energy initiatives, migration initiatives, the single market review, the social reality stocktaking, the emissions trading scheme, a european strategy for social services, a community framework for efficient health services, etc.
these 21 strategic objectives cover exactly the three pillars of sustainable development.
question no 31 by chris davies (h-0896/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: carbon dioxide emissions from new cars how high does the commission currently estimate the average carbon dioxide emissions from new cars entering the european car market?
the commission attaches great importance to the automotive industry's commitment to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars.
these commitments have enabled significant reductions in consumption for new passenger cars and in 2004 average co2 emissions from new passenger cars were 12.4% lower than in 1995, from 186 grams per km to 163 grams.
we do not yet have definitive data for 2005, but i do not expect a reduction in 2005 greater than in 2004. if it appears that industry will not meet its commitments, the commission must - as i have already announced - take action and also propose legislation to reduce co2 emissions to the level deemed necessary.
the commission is currently reviewing the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars.
i believe this approach is a key prerequisite for achieving further reductions in co2 emissions from passenger cars at a sustainable cost.
however, other aspects need to be considered, such as policies to promote the use of low-carbon fuels and changes in driving habits.
we should also pay more attention to the other two main elements of the strategy: the labelling and tax incentives for low-carbon vehicles.
the proposal for the introduction of a euro 5 standard for vehicles, which was presented by the commission at the end of last year, reduces particulate matter emissions for both light commercial vehicles and cars.
in a second step, which is also being discussed, i have proposed to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel vehicles from 200 to 80 milligrams, and this would come into effect in 2014 or 2015.
vice-president of the commission.
of course we have these figures, and it is a - in my view - a very gratifying fact that the emissions from new cars from europe are far, but really far below the average emissions from cars from other parts of the world, significantly among the oil producing countries, including the united states and japan.
it is interesting to note here that these countries, which have lower emissions than we do, have legally binding regulations in place for all sectors.
i think, in fact, that if all that is poured into our development policies is poured into states that are failing, the consequences will be only negative: a lot of waste, a lot of loss, a lot of loss of efficiency.
it is an important eu development tool: it contributes to economic progress in developing countries and the reduction of poverty, while taking on board the enduring need for promoting core human and labour rights, as well as sustainable development and governance principles.
one of the key priorities of eu trade policy is to be consistent with and to consolidate the objectives of development policy, in particular the promotion of sustainable development and good governance.
this goal has been given greater prominence in the gsp+ scheme, which aims at encouraging developing countries to comply with international standards relating to social rights, environmental protection and governance, including the fight against drugs.
the commission is not the system of generalised preferences has proven its worth by providing effective support to states in their efforts to achieve sustainable development and good governance.
the israeli people must no longer live in a climate of constant fear, but they too have a right to peace.
in gaza these services constitute the only element of stability in an insecure environment.
but please, no new european superstructures in civil protection, and please, no waste of precious european resources on tasks which are now really largely national affairs!
it is, as i said, a matter of public interest: the european food agency, the european medicines agency, the chemicals agency, the environment agency - all areas of public interest - and if no one knows who is responsible for what, or how it works, it is no wonder that people are frustrated with european policy.
i agree with the rapporteur that we need to act on the basis of a comprehensive concept of security in today’s security environment and that both external and internal security aspects need to be adequately addressed.
regular stocktaking can be helpful in guiding our efforts to adjust our strategies to a changing environment.
the esdp is to be used to combat terrorism, protect infrastructure, protect energy supplies and protect external borders.
we also know that, in the context of the extension of the mandate to negotiate a new partnership and cooperation agreement, it is precisely issues relating to energy security and democracy and human rights in russia that are to be included in that agreement.
i also think it is extremely important that the commission and the council take note in their negotiations - you can use this as an argument - that such an agreement must ultimately be ratified by the european parliament and that we will not accept an agreement which does not take into account certain conditions, for example in the field of human rights or energy security, which are crucial in the sense of solidarity between all the member states of the european union.
even the commissioner for energy, andris piebalgs, is opposed to the contractual agreements being negotiated.
the member states have different views on the use of nuclear energy.
agricultural research now has additional opportunities to receive european support in the context of energy and environmental research.
in this way, we not only contribute to sustainable agricultural research and development, but also help farmers to implement the 2003 agrarian reform and to move towards internationally competitive production systems.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, entitled 'keeping up the pace - a europe of entrepreneurship and growth' (2006/2138 (ini)) (a6-0384/2006).
the point is that in my view the report contains serious shortcomings, such as the question of nuclear energy in bulgaria or the weak calls on the commission to examine safeguard clauses carefully and, if necessary, to apply them in good time.
this is a dramatic step forward for the environment and health in europe.
i think it is fair to say that we want this environmental progress, but we are also imposing a considerable cost on business and industry.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are applied in the member states.
the aim was to put the necessary pressure on the boiler to bring the different wings of this house closer together, namely the rightly very committed health and environmental politicians and the economic politicians.
we have even fought some quite senseless proxy wars, and the climate has not always been free of strain.
i am convinced that where there are better alternatives, in the future, when it makes economic sense, there will also be ecological alternatives.
in the age of the internet, it has not been possible to provide consumers with access to this information via the internet; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the next item is the report by mrs christa klaß, on behalf of the delegation of the european parliament and the council, to the conciliation committee on the protection of groundwater against pollution and degradation (com (2004) 0391 - c6-0080/2004 - 2004/0127 - cod)) (a6-0188/2005).
the environment is a vast field.
groundwater regenerates very slowly, both in terms of quantity and pollution.
the air we breathe is showing that all the measures we have taken over the last decade are not enough to prevent climate change with all its negative consequences.
the protection of the groundwater ecosystem is therefore of the utmost importance.
the protection of the groundwater ecosystem and the precautionary approach were explicitly included.
the european commission reports must include an assessment of this directive in relation to other relevant environmental legislation, including the nitrates directive, including compliance with these provisions, for groundwater.
this is hopefully a starting point for strict and efficient measures for sustainable water protection.
nitrate pollution remains the biggest and most costly problem for european water protection.
we still know too little about the properties of our ecosystem.
the groundwater directive to be adopted must be the starting point for further environmental protection measures.
as rapporteur for the environment committee, i will pay particular attention to the high levels of pesticides in groundwater in the forthcoming legislative procedure on pesticides, because this too will be an important step towards greater protection of groundwater.
i would like to congratulate in particular its rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, and the co-rapporteurs and the fictitious rapporteurs who spared no time or energy in drawing up parliament's opinion.
there is, as all of us know, a serious problem with regard to cod sustainability.
on the issue of cross-pollination, it is important to remember that no gm crop can be grown in the european union unless it has been evaluated as safe for the environment and human and animal health and authorised for cultivation.
however, the special characteristics of each member state – the landscape, the environment, climate conditions – make it important for them to take the most appropriate measures.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution.
the compromise which will be put to the vote tomorrow is significantly different from the commission proposal because a second stage has been added by the environment committee.
the greatest progress in reducing motor vehicle emissions is being made in the case of nitrogen oxides.
the soot particles problem in diesel vehicles is virtually solved with euro 5, particulate emissions are reduced by 80%, and with modern engine and particulate filters, the exhaust of many new diesel cars will produce cleaner air than is sucked in from the front.
as rapporteur for the air quality directive, i can tell you that i wish all technical systems were as clean and energy-efficient as our modern cars.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy.
it's not going to do much good to the environment if we don't get the old cars off the road because the new, clean cars are not affordable.
we have been generous with the exemptions for the m1 vehicles, but i think that is justified, because the environmental impact is comparatively small.
in a market economy - and i want to keep reminding you of this in environmental decisions - the final decision to buy is ultimately the customer's.
we have been more or less in agreement, but at the end of the compromise i wondered whether the leadership of the negotiations was really in the hands of the environment committee.
i note that parliament is clearly not prepared to give a firm hand to incentives for technological innovation which would have a positive effect on the environment.
the development of the euronorm is undoubtedly a decisive step forward in european environmental policy, a step which the automobile industry can live with.
i have just been in shanghai for six weeks, at the china automotive industry forum, where i spoke about europe's environmental activities in the automotive sector.
it was learned that china will introduce emission standards in line with the euro 3 standard in 2007. this will reduce emissions by 30%.
the next stage, equivalent to the euro 4 standard, will be reached in 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental standards of the community are respected.
but now it is also up to the highly profitable fuel industry to become more involved in the process and to improve the environmental performance of fuels so that the burden of costly improvements is not borne solely by the automotive industry.
the basic concern of reach, the protection of people, the protection of the workplace and the protection of the environment is positive.
this type of approach to the protection of man and the environment is, however, bad for europe as a whole.
as regards innovation, as regards energy and climate change, the council will no doubt prepare the ground for a european council in spring 2007, which i believe will be very important in this respect.
let me add one last thought on a subject on which we must develop our awareness, namely the issue of climate change.
but if we have climate change leading to a disastrous situation, and also to the impoverishment of wider areas, then our political efforts will not succeed either.
the issue of climate change must therefore become a political priority for the european parliament and the other institutions as well.
climate change is not a topic that you discuss after hours.
if the 2.3 billion chinese and indians claim the same energy consumption as we europeans and europeans or the americans, then the growth rates of their economies are the end of this planet.
we can reduce co2 in europe as much as we want; the co2 emissions there will be many times higher than anything else.
the construction of energy networks, i.e.
infrastructure in different directions, is therefore a very important step towards increasing energy security in the member state concerned.
mr president, deforestation is one of the most significant contributors to the global climate change problem, accounting for about 20% of the total greenhouse gas emissions from human activities, i.e.
about a fifth of the total emissions from human activities.
as tropical deforestation is a major contributor to total emissions, developing countries have and can play an important role in mitigating climate change by reducing emissions from deforestation and promoting sustainable forest management.
such actions would also help those countries to adapt to climate change and would also have other beneficial effects.
the eu therefore stresses the need to explore different options to reduce emissions from deforestation and to exploit synergies with other fora in this regard.
this issue has also been discussed at the nairobi climate conference, so its importance and weight have been recognised.
i am curious to see whether next year the council will have the same courage as the commission and parliament to take action against marine pollution.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by eluned morgan, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy green paper (a6-0426/2006) - the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the strategy for biomass and biofuels (a6-0347/2006) and - the report by esko seppänen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the draft council regulation establishing a support instrument in the field of nuclear safety and security (09037/2006 c6-0153/2006 2006/0802 (cns)) (a6-0397/2006).
this provides an excellent opportunity to discuss topics of key importance for energy policy just before the new year, topics that brought a great deal of inquietude last year.
let me begin by addressing the report on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
first, i wish to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs morgan, for her impressive work on the energy green paper.
this document is an important contribution to the commission’s work on the strategic energy review.
your work over recent months has fed into the commission’s wider deliberations on the future of energy policy in europe.
i agree that the european union needs an integrated, coherent and consistent european energy policy that maintains europe’s competitiveness, safeguards our environmental objectives and ensures our security of supply.
i also agree on the nature of the climate change challenge.
climate change provides the strongest encouragement for a new energy policy.
energy accounts for over 90 % of carbon dioxide emissions in the european union, so we cannot tackle climate change without the right energy policies.
i agree that the european union needs to show vision and determination to lead the world in accelerating the shift to a low-carbon economy.
at the heart of this must be ambitious but credible targets for further reductions in greenhouse gases beyond 2012. without a functioning internal market, the emissions-trading system – the cornerstone of our efforts to deal with climate change in a competitive manner – will not work properly, nor will we achieve our aims of competitiveness and security of supply.
in addition, in line with the conclusions of the internal market report and the final report on the energy sector inquiry, the commission now intends to take action to address the remaining issues under the following headings: ensuring non-discriminatory access to well-developed networks, notably by looking at the issue of unbundling; improving regulation of network access at national and eu levels, which includes better cooperation at eu level between regulators; reducing the scope for unfair competition, through increased transparency and improved access to storage facilities; providing a clear framework for investment; and strengthening the focus of the public service obligation.
the role of citizens is particularly important with respect to our energy efficiency agenda.
this is an area where everyone can contribute to a more sustainable and secure world, and we welcome your support for the energy efficiency action plan.
europe’s citizens can also make a difference to the role of renewables in our energy mix, but we cannot expect people to make the necessary shift unless the political and investment plan is right.
climate change, globalisation and longer-term targets call for a renewed effort on the technology front.
this year, our external policy has taken some very important steps: the establishment of the energy community and new agreements with several producer countries and transit countries, including kazakhstan, azerbaijan and ukraine.
first of all, i would like to thank mr langen for this valuable contribution and his great help to us in the commission as we look forward on the issue of renewable energy, including bioenergy.
first, the eu, acting collectively, will need to strengthen the legislative framework for renewable energy, committing itself to the establishment of a stable regulatory framework based on ambitious targets.
longer-term, more ambitious objectives up to 2020 will need binding obligations on the part of member states to guarantee burden-sharing and the development of an internal renewable energy market.
second, this framework will need to include legislative measures tailored to the specific obstacles facing renewable energy in individual sectors.
for example, access to the grid is a key issue for renewable energy in electricity.
in transport, it is necessary to take into account the fact that the extra cost for biofuels is greater than that of renewable energies in other sectors, but we need biofuels in the energy mix because they are a tool not only for combating climate change, but also in terms of security of supply.
first, i welcome the emphasis the report places on the certification of biofuels to ensure that, whether produced in europe or abroad, they need sustainability standards.
however, as the work of the round table on sustainable palm oil has demonstrated, the environmental impact of palm oil production can display enormous variations, and this has to be taken into account.
they offer better greenhouse gas performance and improve security of supply by widening the range of feedstocks from which biofuels can be made.
first-generation biofuels improve security of supply, too, by reducing dependence on oil, and they also offer greenhouse gas savings compared with conventional fuels.
we should particularly encourage farmers to venture into the new world of production of farm food and energy grasses.
it will remain essential in the coming years, as most of our neighbours and emerging economies rely heavily on nuclear power in order to satisfy their energy needs.
i look forward to continuing our joint work for europe’s energy future.
the objectives of the green paper competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply are not being fully achieved, but at least all the measures to promote biomass and biofuels are being implemented.
this is important because 50% of all renewable energy around 4% of total energy demand in europe is already generated by biomass.
there is a huge potential only 1.6 million hectares of potential 97.4 million hectares are currently used for energy in the european union.
no one wants to make it harder to produce quality food by relying too heavily on energy, for example by oversubsidizing.
the committee on industry, research and energy, which was in charge of the subject, has therefore largely adopted my draft report.
firstly, we want an energy policy approach that ensures affordable energy prices.
secondly, we support an integrated approach to energy policy which takes into account the objectives of security of energy supply, security of competition and environmental sustainability.
thirdly, the dependence on energy imports does not allow for ideological blind spots.
we want a non-discriminatory energy mix.
fourthly, we see the completion of the internal market as a central point for ensuring security of supply and affordable energy prices.
fifthly, investment in networks and capacity, and investment in co2 and low-carbon energy, must be facilitated and accelerated.
seventhly, we do not want to burden our energy policy with unnecessary bureaucracy.
bioenergy will be central to the energy mix of the future.
in many areas it can and will make an important contribution to energy security and to reducing our dependence on foreign imports, to climate protection and to employment and the economy in europe's rural areas.
at the same time, biofuels imported from third countries should also be certified according to strict ecological criteria in order to ensure a positive environmental impact.
it has become clear that europe's dependence on energy is enormous.
in 2000, europe's energy dependence was 50%; in 2030, it will be around 70%.
it also means that new priorities must be set in foreign policy and new consequences must be drawn in the matter of safeguarding and using our own energy resources.
finally, it also says that the question of aligning these three objectives - security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness - needs to be rethought.
energy efficiency, yes, renewable energy, yes, but we also have to recognize that these are limited solutions to our problem.
we all know that energy is the lifeblood of the european union.
i think the eu as a whole is very naive about energy.
energy policy is still fragmented, with member states pursuing different strategies.
the spring energy summit has failed, that's clear.
the eu-russia summit, which was important for us and also included an energy component, has failed on polish beef.
on the other hand, we have a very high dependence on oil and gas, we do not have enough interconnectors for a real european energy market, as we saw recently with the blackout this year.
we therefore welcome the fact that you, commissioner, are putting forward more action plans, that the german presidency will make energy a priority, and that countries such as finland, for example, are taking a very unideological approach to energy policy, but are nevertheless very successful in doing so, investing heavily in biomass and at the same time in nuclear power, because they have clearly recognised the signs of the times.
in particular, i also welcome the fact that, with the biomass action plan, commissioner, you are likely to make a significant contribution to energy diversification, to reducing dependence on other regions of the world and to the lisbonisation of our entire eu agenda.
we have very different reports on the table as regards energy strategies.
the morgan report and the langen report are, in my view, actually dealing with a positive future and a paradigm shift in the energy industry, whereas the seppänen report is actually dealing with the cleanup of old bottlenecks.
the various reports on energy are actually quite typical of this european parliament.
the energy mix is a recurring theme.
this means that the nuclear energy will continue to be used, and nuclear energy is and will remain false and dangerous.
the eu is failing to promote research, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
it is scandalous that the 1.6 billion euro spent on the arms race in space is twice as much as the money spent on the energy transition.
the german foreign minister keeps talking about 'energy foreign policy'.
we need an immediate nuclear phase-out, massive promotion of renewable energy, energy research instead of arms research and cooperation in the field of energy foreign policy.
russia is using energy as a political weapon, the situation in the middle east and the gulf region is uncertain and none of us knows what the political situation and thus the security of energy supply will be in two or three years' time.
when you see energy-hungry china winning energy rights in darfur, hosting an africa summit, joining nigeria, making a $100 billion energy deal with iran, then we must be very concerned about affordable energy supplies, which are crucial for the economic and social development of our continent, for jobs and much more.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
but it also shows how necessary the constitutional treaty is to create an energy competence so that we can actually do what we're talking about here.
the commission should not ignore this signal when it presents its energy package in january, in the interests of continuing the really good cooperation in the field of energy policy.
for example, the report calls for a binding 25% target for renewable energy by 2020. the commission seems to be quite open to a binding overall objective.
as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment on the strategy for biomass and biofuels, i would like to make two points on this report: first, it is of great importance that sustainability is prioritised at all stages of biofuel production.
but we also need to define standards for cultivation and processing, with the balance of greenhouse gases throughout the production cycle as the main criterion.
the second point i would like to mention is the energy efficiency of biomass.
the main criterion here must be how many kilowatt hours per hectare can be harvested per year without neglecting sustainability.
the increased demand for fossil fuels and the rapid price increase associated with it make it important that the share of renewable energy increases rapidly in order to reduce the increase in the price of fossil fuels in the future.
we would like to add a short addition in the middle of the paragraph, 'as part of the 2007 energy package'.
the issues addressed – enlargement, immigration, innovation, climate change – are all long-term issues which require determined, ambitious, persistent action at the highest level.
if you look at what has really happened in concrete terms on the services directive, on enlargement, on energy, on reach (we have just witnessed the signature of the reach regulation), on the seventh research framework programme (the biggest ever, with a 40% increase in real terms), on the new system for schengen (especially important for new member states), on our response on lebanon, on our response on the congo (where the european union was by far the biggest contributor to the successful democratic elections, the first ever in that important african country), on all those issues and on several others we have seen the three institutions much more focused on delivering results to the citizens of europe and, hopefully, much less on brussels turf wars.
if you look at three key areas – economy, energy and climate, and external policy – you can see the european union delivering real change on issues that matter for citizens.
on energy and climate change, the commission is now finalising its proposals and we have received a clear signal from the european council.
therefore the report adopted by parliament last week on cleaner, greener energy was excellently timed: it will help us shape our final recommendations and confirms our own conviction that citizens will not thank the european union for timidity in this matter.
we also say: we do not want to secure our energy supply and sacrifice our human rights in the process.