the eu should have used its powerful position to develop the wto into a well-functioning multilateral agreement system with clear social and environmental terms for trade.
the commission's starting point has been that by breaking up monopolies we could have more efficient and well-run ports, so that we can have more goods transported by ship, which will reduce both the burden on the roads and the environment.
it is not only sugar beet but also other crops which can be grown on former sugar beet areas and used for biofuels which are an important part of the energy production of the future, both in terms of supply, the environment and also economically.
we should help the acp countries to build a sustainable production system.
the social and environmental problems that are evidently present in many places must be solved through the ilo and the environmental conventions.
if the aarhus convention is to work as it is intended to in the eu, it is essential that the rules also guarantee access to justice for certain environmental organisations.
the committee on the environment has therefore rightly supported the commission's original proposal and reintroduced this element.
but environmental organisations must also be able to take action when eu laws are broken.
individual citizens cannot be tested in environmental decisions, since there is no individual interest.
but ngos are public interests in the field of environment and health and should therefore have access to justice - also in the eu.
environmental organisations are the public interest, while the chemical industry, with its huge money reserves, can push decisions through the eu system.
first of all, i would like to thank anne ferreira for a fine report which unfortunately received a few bad applause in the committee on the environment.
the greens have tabled three amendments: more ambitious targets for the reduction of greenhouse gases, a move away from dependence on nuclear energy and a specific amendment on the waste problems we have as a result of an inconsistent attitude towards beverage packaging.
denmark alone has 400-600 million cans of german beer and soda water floating in the wild or in the waste incineration system every year because the germans let the danes off the hook for canned bread when they buy beer in germany.
with a common european lease system, danish nature and the environment would be much better off - just like the cows that are tortured today when they rummage on one of the many german beer cans in the wild.
the june motion voted in favour of paragraph 45 of the report on 'environmental aspects and sustainable development', but wants the introduction of environmental taxes at eu level to be based on minimum directives, so that more extensive requirements can be set in each member state.
point 45:"supports the introduction of environmental taxes at eu level; stresses that they, like other market instruments, are an indispensable tool in an effective policy to combat pollution; calls on the commission to submit proposals and the member states to adopt the first european environmental tax by 2009 at the latest;"
on behalf of the ind/dem group.
bigger companies do not have to expend the same proportion of their energy on this as smaller companies, and the same is true of the proportion of finances.
it is astonishing how often members of this parliament who are working for a green europe and to prevent the climate catastrophe fail to notice what is going on in the committee on agriculture.
the environmental and climate rapporteurs of the groups should have stopped this in its tracks.
the world is facing enormous challenges: poverty, climate change, serious diseases and armed conflict.
the aim of the cotonou agreement and the economic partnership agreements is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development.
at best, it can be characterized as a waste of time.
finally, i would say that it is good that we have included the ilo and environmental standards in the report, even though it has been too broad.
i believe that the regulation on f-gases, as well as the directive on mobile air conditioners in cars, will make a significant contribution to the eu’s fight against climate change and to our efforts to achieve our kyoto emission reduction target.
the commission estimates that the legislation that we are discussing today will, by 2012, cut emissions of fluorinated gases by some 20 million tonnes of co2 equivalent annually.
that implies a reduction of 20% compared to 1995. in the absence of measures, emissions of fluorinated gases would have risen by 50% in the same period.
eu climate policy builds on close cooperation between the commission and member states.
only through common and combined action, at european and at national level, will the european union be effective in reducing its emissions of greenhouse gases.
the commission therefore welcomes measures taken by member states to reduce national emissions in order to meet their burden-sharing target.
in that context, however, the commission’s responsibility is to preserve any right it might have to ensure that all actions carried out to reduce emissions of f-gases are compatible with the treaty.
that is why the commission should like issue the following declaration on the question of stricter national measures: ‘the commission notes the agreement between the european parliament and the council on the insertion in the regulation of a provision allowing member states to maintain, until 2012, more stringent national measures compared to those laid down in the regulation, should these measures be adopted before 31 december 2005. it results from the treaty that if, after the adoption of a harmonised measure, a member state considers it necessary to maintain national measures that are justified by important requirements specified in article 30 of the ec treaty, or relating to the protection of the environment or of the working environment, this member state notifies them to the commission, indicating the reasons for their maintenance.
the outcome is strong and effective legislation, which, once again, demonstrates the european union’s capacity to match its words with concrete deeds in its climate policy.
the outcome of the conciliation committee is a victory for europe's environment and for europe's citizens.
it proves that the eu puts the environment at the forefront of its agenda.
when the european parliament adopts the conciliation committee's text tomorrow, with a hopefully very large majority, i assume that environment commissioner dimas will take the opportunity to withdraw the commission's letter of formal notice to denmark.
with amendments we will make the f-gas decision a minimum rule whereby countries are allowed to go further in protecting our common climate.
and we therefore owe a great deal of thanks to the chairman of the committee on the environment, karl-heinz florenz, and the rapporteur, avril doyle, for their steadfast support for minimum standards, despite the fact that they were subjected to strong pressure - including from within their own group.
we will have more opportunities to take account of safety, health, the environment, working conditions, consumer protection and animal welfare.
no danes or austrians will understand if the commission makes its action on climate change a political priority and at the same time punishes denmark and austria for taking a particular action.
we are faced here with a proposal which is an affront to all good environmental forces.
we have efficient refrigerators in denmark and austria, and yet they have chosen to benefit the f-gas industry rather than the environment.
the balance between the two parts is lost when it concerns the energy community treaty.
in the context of the current debate on the way forward for europe in energy policy, it is positive that the environmental focus that has been the driving force behind the intelligent energy for europe programme has been maintained.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, which are among the areas where more innovation can best contribute to the eu's competitiveness.
we are opposed to the liberalisation of energy markets.
we do not believe it is essential to enhancing competitiveness, tackling energy prices and enhancing of security of supply and energy efficiency.
however, we have decided to vote in favour of the report as it contains positive proposals relating to energy efficiency, conservation and access to energy by disadvantaged members of society.
from the beginning of the environmental struggle in the 1970s, groundwater was at the centre.
fortunately, the environment committee has managed to repair the damage.
energy research has become a separate thematic priority within the framework of cooperation.
there is a great need for research into energy technologies which can help europe to achieve its energy policy objectives in the field of .... (the president withdrew the speaker).
excuse me for saying so, but it is a hell of a job, because it takes time and energy and often you get very little thanks for it.
we need a new treaty in order to have low energy prices.
they unanimously agreed on the cost of environmental crimes through an intergovernmental decision.
i am very pleased to note that the resolution recognizes that growth and sustainable development are not opposites but rather presuppositions of each other.
sustainable growth is the only growth we can afford.
it is also a great step forward that the resolution extends sustainability to areas other than the environment.
the environmental and social dimensions should be integrated as equal themes in the understanding of sustainability.
and in this connection, i would like to emphasize that sustainable development also implies gender equality.
a sustainable development strategy must address this inequality and ensure that social problems do not affect men and women equally.
the common objectives of both the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy cannot be achieved without addressing the issue of inequality and better exploitation of the potential of both men and women.
total harmonisation should be made much more frequently into minimum harmonisation, encouraging countries to take the lead in the fight for safety, health and the environment.
this has been rectified by the aarhus convention on the conditions for the participation of ngos in environmental legislation.
it is possible that some of them can also be caught in the system and that the environmental damage is not so great - if the system is to work.
because now it's going to say on the package how much energy is in such a battery.
finally, i would like to say that i believe that we should incorporate environmental sustainability and social inclusion into our innovation strategy.
sustainability should be the fundamental principle, so that we ensure that the eu is ahead, thinking both long-term and globally.
the present proposal will, from almost every point of view, be detrimental to the environment.
we will have many more cars, and with proportionality there will be more cars that are more polluting and that have a higher energy consumption.
they don't expect to sell cleaner or less energy-consuming cars.
at the copenhagen summit in december 2002, all heads of government backed much stricter rules against pollution from ships.
we are glad that pollution in general is now included and not just the specific pollution.
that there is more to be gained by incorporating proposals - such as the one that has just been put forward - so that it becomes possible to prosecute the many, many criminals who are completely indifferent to what is happening to our marine environment and therefore simply use it as a garbage can when they do not want to pay what it costs to dispose of their pollutants properly.
i voted for the report because it sends an important signal about the reorientation of taxes towards the environment.
we agree to common minimum standards for air pollution.
since limit values for air pollution can conflict with the internal market, we therefore do not believe that a directive with a legal basis of articles 175 and 176 is in itself a sufficient guarantee of the member states' ability to maintain or introduce higher levels of protection.
there are problems with human rights, interest rates and environmental standards, but they must not be solved by protectionism.
however, this labour market is also characterised by a large grey economy where the general rules on pay, working time and working environment do not apply.
the protection of the environment and nature is a key asset of the european union for too many people.
we have not accepted the council's greenhouse savings in administrative expenditure, but on the other hand we have put 50 million euro from the commission's administrative budget in reserve with a demand for a better explanation of the development of some of the expenditure.
they are therefore not particularly suitable for the rapid, economically sustainable and reliable development of air transport in europe.
but when it comes to environmental considerations, the commission's proposal does not adequately address the challenges that the increase in air traffic will bring in the coming years in europe.
sesar must not only ensure safe air traffic management, but also the environmental benefits.
i can therefore support the amendments which stress that sesar should lead to more energy-efficient air routes which save fuel and protect the environment.
let all the trade union committees and the european committees give a colour signal for each proposal: black if the national parliament wants binding eu laws, green if it wants minimum provisions with the possibility of better protection of welfare, health, environment, working environment, safety, consumer protection and animal welfare, yellow if you just want voluntary coordination instead of binding laws and red if the eu has to stay away from a case altogether.
the june movement believes that investing in nuclear power as well as fusion energy is a bad investment.
that's because the global potential of solar and wind energy is enormous.
if we just harness one tenth of their potential, there's enough energy to power 30 times the global energy consumption by the year 2010. energy policy should therefore be limited to a plan to exploit this potential by further developing and disseminating existing technology, including wind turbines, solar cells and wave energy, and finally hydrogen as an energy carrier and storage.
the chemical reform is currently designed as total harmonization, which prohibits member states from introducing better protection of the health of citizens and the environment.
these are substances which have a negative impact on health and the environment and that list can hardly be maintained in a system of total harmonization.
the protection of the environment and health is considered to distort competition in the internal market.
we don't know what their impact is on the environment, and we don't know what their impact is on health.
clearly, the health and environmental concerns have won.
we have reached a compromise which is good for the environment and good for health.