we therefore call on the commission, in coordination with the member states, to tackle this aspect of the matter under discussion with energy and urgency.
in the face of the fear of those who believe that the adoption of this directive will lead to a reduction in the working conditions of workers, it must be made clear that the directive respects not only the legislation of the member states on working conditions, vocational training and qualifications, but also those relating to health, safety at work, maritime safety and environmental protection.
it is therefore necessary to assess the issue of aid to ports, of state aid, also from a social point of view - well-trained workers, with quality jobs and with all their labour rights, which is often not the case in maritime law - and, finally, also from an environmental point of view: many of the services in question are fundamental for safety and environmental protection.
i am convinced that this parliament will do the right thing and reject this proposal, which has sufficiently demonstrated its inadequacy for the present needs of european ports, and i ask the commissioner to be sensitive, as he has shown himself to be in other areas of transport, and to prepare as soon as possible, because the global situation requires it, an updated, necessary and courageous consultation process which will openly and in depth address all the necessary aspects of european ports, so that we can have solutions in good time so that european ports can be the poles of economic, social, technological and environmental development that europe needs and, given the overall picture, contribute to a better articulated and more cohesive europe.
i would like to congratulate the latter on his very good work, which is particularly relevant as a milestone on the road to building open skies between the european union and third countries, and which allows us to reflect precisely now on the achievements made and the remaining challenges which require certain conditions of social and environmental equity.
finally, i would say that in the case of the implementation of the agreements or the demand for environmental standards and legislation on social rights, we would like to see international standards closer to the highest european standards, i.e.
and this is largely because, up to now, russia has always shown, even in times of intense internal turmoil, that it is a reliable energy ally, and at no time in the past have the member states of the union seen their gas supplies from russia interrupted or reduced.
we must also maintain and strengthen research and development activities at european level on new sources of energy and make more efficient use of the existing ones.
and, of course, mrs harms, we cannot do without any primary energy source.
if you want to commit energy suicide, you are free to do so, but the sacrifice has to be individual.
finally, mr president, i would ask the commission to continue to put pressure on the member states to achieve a common energy policy, which this crisis has shown that we need without any doubt.
commissioner, the european environment agency, in its 2004 report, stated that europe had increased its temperature by one degree above the average for the rest of the world.
i am sure you do not think, madam commissioner, that with one and a half million hectares for energy crops and a subsidy of 40 euros per hectare we are going to be able to respond to the many farmers who are going to lose their livelihoods.
i would like to thank the european parliament and the committee on the environment for the painstaking preparation of this second reading report.
it is worth noting that, following the guidelines on access to environmental information and public participation, this proposal for a regulation is the third legislative proposal to implement the aarhus convention, this time for the community institutions, and mrs korhola's contribution is valuable.
the proposal therefore covers all three pillars of the convention, namely access to environmental information, public participation and access to justice.
in particular, as regards access to environmental information, a new article 6 is added, referring to the application of the exceptions concerning access to environmental information, as proposed by an amendment of the european parliament.
the common position also incorporates elements of the european parliament's amendments concerning more detailed requirements for public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment.
the commission is able to accept these changes, since the present wording retains the obligation of these bodies to have as their main objective the protection of the environment at community level.
i think this can create a lot of problems, especially because, as we know, sustainable development requires direct environmental knowledge, because it is not the same case by case.
the first principle, which we have mentioned many times here, is that the concept of sustainable development is comprehensive, it has to refer to a specific place and in one place you can do one thing for economic or social reasons and in another you cannot do it.
the fact that ngos, often not located on the relevant site, can claim this right because of their interest in the environment seems to me to be excessive.
i therefore acknowledge the efforts of the rapporteur and the other members to adapt this convention to the mechanisms currently available in the member states and the community institutions, in order to ensure the legitimate right to information and environmental justice.
in this respect, we believe that better access to information and greater public participation in decision-making will make it possible to implement such decisions more effectively and will contribute to raising public awareness of environmental problems.
the convention will have to strengthen transparency, accountability and good governance in areas of public action as diverse as energy, agriculture, transport or tourism, through the recognition of a series of rights aimed at ensuring the effective participation of citizens in public decision-making processes.
on the other hand, in the interests of the universalization of justice, i think we should reject the possibility that the european investment bank can refuse access to environmental information, since the aarhus convention provides that exceptions must be interpreted restrictively and the inclusion of the term 'banking' extends this concept of confidentiality.
in fact, the directive on public access to environmental information does not provide for specific rules for banks.
i hope that this regulation will be implemented as soon as possible, to ensure access to justice in all environmental matters.
i think it is important to stress - and i will explain this to my students whenever i teach courses in the future - that this is a real example of the extent to which environmental policy is an added value for the economic system, for the well-being of citizens and even for the surplus value and increase in the value of land.
i therefore welcome this and say that it shows how much the quality of the environment adds value to the economic system, to industries and even to social benefits.
secondly, mr chancellor, in a few years' time europeans will have to identify and recognise the political role of the european union in the face of the great problems we face: energy, immigration, terrorism, growth and employment.
i would like to make a few comments on the energy question.
but i have fought for every country to ultimately have its own choice of energy sources.
i personally think that the road to a revival of nuclear energy is very, very dangerous.
but at european level we can deal with the question of renewable energy.
we have renewable resources, we have wood, we have biomass.
chancellor schüssel highlighted some of these priorities, including research, small and medium-sized enterprises and energy, where the hampton court agenda usefully complements the lisbon agenda.
the spanish socialist delegation welcomes the adoption of this own-initiative report, which seeks to improve the aspiration to achieve genuine sustainable development.
the five-year work programme sets medium-term objectives in the areas of political and security partnership, sustainability of economic development and reform, education and socio-cultural exchange, and addresses issues related to migration, social inclusion, justice and security.
so on the one hand, yes to the liveliness, the energy, the contrast of ideas, which sometimes manifests itself in shouts and other reactions that, to those of us who come from latin parliaments, even seem to be lacking, because simultaneous interpretation makes it difficult for laughter to break out or for a comment to be reacted to, but not to the point of losing the dignity of the role we are entrusted with and of what each of us represents, which is much more than what each of us is.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the lisbon strategy, which was merged with the sustainable development strategy in gothenburg, aims to achieve economic growth, social cohesion and poverty reduction in the union and, to this end, it establishes that the three complementary pillars on which it must be based are economic, social and environmental.
as the report explicitly states, there is a need for better coordination between the policy of an integrated approach to equality between women and men on the one hand and the lisbon strategy on the other, in order to systematically take into account the gender perspective in the achievement of the ambitious lisbon objectives, in particular in the broad economic policy guidelines, the employment guidelines, environmental policy - see reach directive - , internal market policy - see bolkenstein services directive - and finally in the policies for the integration of immigrants.
i am therefore fully convinced of the validity of your wish, your attention and your concern and i will certainly devote all the commission's energy to answering this question in particular.
however, the fact that an institution such as the european parliament is supporting this process will also undoubtedly help to create an international and binational climate between the two countries, whose relations are not easy, in the right direction.
it is in this context that peru is currently preparing for the presidential elections in april 2006. the international community attaches great importance to the holding of these elections in a climate of transparency, stability and calm, and to the continuation of the ongoing process of democratic consolidation.
moreover, the targeting of human rights organisations through a series of arrests on criminal – not civil – charges which are out of proportion with the alleged crimes is creating a climate of fear for human rights defenders in the country.
it states: the european union shall pursue the objective of promoting a process of transition to a pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as a sustainable recovery and improvement of the living standards of the cuban people in its relations with cuba.
we believe, however, that in the present climate of relations the prospects for progress are better today than under the council's previous policy, which led to a dead end, as has been - to say the least - the policy of sanctions and embargo for decades.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, they want to know whether the european community is complying with its commitments in international fora, since the proposal for a council regulation on measures for the sustainable management of fishery resources in the mediterranean has not yet been adopted by the council.
the consequences of this irresponsibility are manifold: the mediterranean is the only community area which is still far from being associated with the minimum concepts of responsible fishing and sustainable development, when in other community waters much more drastic action is already being taken in its name.
aspects as important as the protection of victims must be accompanied by other measures, such as specific programmes for access to employment or social housing, in order to address this reality from a comprehensive point of view, taking into account aspects relating to education, legal aid or the health sector, and without forgetting that these situations of violence also affect, in many cases, children within their family environment.
but not only are studies being made of what violence is, but it is also worth investigating whether when there is violence in the family environment, the person who exercises it also exercises violence in the workplace, if he also exercises what is called "mobbing" and tries to destroy physically and psychologically the people around him, because, deep down, whoever does it is a sick person who does not know any other way to express himself other than with this form of violence.
in the spirit of the lisbon strategy, we want state aid reform to help member states get the best value for money by focusing state resources on measures that will contribute to sustainable economic growth and to more and better jobs for the future.
in the field of trade policy, the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, known as ‘gsp+’, provides additional benefits for countries that implement, inter alia, certain international standards in human and social rights; so it is a positive incentive.
we cannot continue to look complacently at our external energy dependence.
the current oil prices are certainly a benchmark for the cost-effectiveness thresholds of substitution technologies: there is a great opportunity for renewable energy sources to reach competitive prices with public aid, in line with state aid legislation.
as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, the renewable energy directive is difficult to enforce.
the directive on energy efficiency in buildings already contains some provisions on the use of biomass for heating which will have to be further developed.
we believe that a new heating and cooling directive which takes account of mrs rothe's excellent report, with renewable energy sources, must include objectives which are both ambitious and realistic: clear guidelines on financing mechanisms and an exemplary role for the public sector.
mr president, there is nothing wrong with wanting to reduce unjustified barriers to the free movement of services within the framework of a single market, as long as this is done in a responsible way, ensuring that it does not undermine social and environmental rights, and moving towards a european-wide harmonisation of services legislation.
in other words, article 16, with its country of origin principle, is not going to liberalise services; what it is aiming at is liberalising the labour market, because there are certain concessions granted by the then commissioner which go against social protection, environmental protection and consumer protection.
but acceptance of the market economy and also acceptance of the european project requires a market economy with a sufficient social component, that is to say a social market economy which does not regard the individual as a mere cost factor and which is committed to the principle of sustainability.
the principles in the approach to the revision were outlined at a meeting of parliament’s committee on industry, research and energy on 26 january 2006. smaller activity actions cannot be reduced as much as bigger ones, otherwise they lose their raison d’être.
i am very grateful to mr kindermann for accepting my amendment on the fundamental role of forests as regulators of the water cycle, but i still miss an explicit mention of the importance of community intervention to help maintain and, if necessary, compensate for the environmental services that forests provide to society as a whole.
in this respect, although i believe that we should pay attention to the economic and environmental importance, i already announce to the commissioner and the rapporteur that i will continue to work towards a genuine community policy in this field.
we spanish socialists are pleased to see the multifunctional role of agriculture mentioned and we are also pleased that the conservation and protection of soil has been given priority, because soil is an environmental resource which must necessarily be considered alongside water, air and biodiversity.
in addition, this care of the soil allows us to maintain good agricultural and environmental conditions.
the services are preparing the response to a conflict of competence between the committee on fisheries and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in a global environment, each company makes the final decision on the establishment or relocation of its business activities independently.
as i pointed out earlier in my introductory speech, the commission has proposed and implemented measures to limit any use of the structural funds for purposes not linked to the sustainable development of any region.
water needs to be shared more equitably, but at the same time the amount of freshwater is decreasing year by year because of climate change and the destruction of ecosystems such as wetlands, forests, rivers and streams.
we must apply the same european law when we are outside europe and we must ensure that the amount of water obtained in a complex way through ecosystems, through the fight against climate change, is conserved in the medium and long term.
the main objective of the strategy is to reduce mercury levels in the environment and human exposure to mercury, and in particular to methyl mercury in fish.
in recent decades, many actions have been taken at community level to address the mercury problem and to reduce emissions, uses and exposure to mercury.
the main areas examined and for which action is proposed in the short term are: the supply of mercury to the market and its export; mercury surpluses from the chloride alkali industry; the use of mercury in measurement and control equipment; mercury emissions from coal combustion.
the current levels are due to past mercury emissions and it will take time for these levels to stabilise even if there are no new mercury emissions.
in conclusion, i would like to thank mr machakis and parliament as a whole again for their work and to reiterate my commitment to helping to shape even stronger european union policies for better health and environmental protection.
mr president, we share your objectives, mr matsakis, both the elimination of mercury emissions at european level and the ban on exports of mercury, which, like its components, is a highly toxic substance for humans and the environment, as has already been said here.
although the european union is the world's leading exporter of mercury and a ban on its exports will contribute considerably to curbing trade and reducing global reserves of this metal, i call on the council to continue the european union's participation in international forums and activities, to make bilateral commitments and to undertake projects with third countries, especially in the field of technology transfer, to tackle the problem of mercury pollution.
i also ask the commission to raise public awareness by organizing information campaigns on the health risks of exposure to mercury and the environmental problems that this substance can cause, since i fear that citizens are still not sufficiently informed about its toxicity.
another aspect which particularly concerns me is the use of mercury in the form of thiomersal in vaccines, as it could have harmful effects on human health, and we should take note of the fact that countries such as denmark have not used it in childhood vaccines since 1992. i am glad that the council conclusions recognize the environmental and social problems resulting from the closure of the long-running mercury mines in almadén, as well as the possibility of using these almadén mines as a deposit for the safe storage of existing stocks of metallic mercury or secondary metallic mercury resulting from european industry, never from its waste, thus taking advantage of existing infrastructure, manpower and know-how.
mercury is a toxic element with negative health effects and therefore the commission proposes that it be safely contained, while reducing its use and ending its trade, but as the communication rightly says in point 9 there are many gaps in its effects on human health, on how it spreads or accumulates in the environment, on its toxicity and on the sensitivity of ecosystems.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to pay tribute to dr matsakis for his report and for the motion for a resolution with which he has assisted our committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and i would like to thank the members of that committee for their contributions, which have improved the text we are now debating.
the contribution of the european parliament is very important and only by close cooperation between the institutions will we be able to secure for the european union effective ways of tackling the negative effects of mercury on human health and the environment.
i would like to say a few words, in the interests of brevity, on the points raised by mr kallahan: the environmental impact of mercury remains significant and relevant alternatives exist.
on the subject of dental amalgams, the commission will ask the relevant medical group to study new measures and will seek the opinion of the scientific committee on health and environmental risk.
(applause)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
firstly, in connection with article 66, which was adopted in the committee on industry, research and energy and which refers to the need not to forget deregulation, which is necessary for the sector, which was only needed to be regulated temporarily and for a while.
this gives us more weight, for example, when we talk to others around the world about the international dimension of social responsibility and environmental protection.
the most recent striking example is energy policy.
it is clear to any reasonable person that all member states have a vital interest in a secure and affordable supply of clean energy and must work together to achieve this objective in the best possible way.
"everyone is his own neighbor" will not be sustainable here.
the european commission has presented a green paper on energy policy.
the next step, as you have said, is to look more closely at the energy europe and so many other elements which must be common.
madam president, i am sorry to waste a little time before the commission starts its question time, but i wanted to express my surprise and perhaps my astonishment at what has happened to one of the questions i had put for this particular part-session.
on another point made by mr stevenson concerning the studying of factors other than over-fishing, such as pollution and global warming – a point also raised by other honourable members of parliament – we are certainly willing to do this and we are doing so.
the problem exists independently of the problem of depleted stocks, and we need to address it if we want to regain sustainable fisheries in the long-term interests of the fishermen themselves.
in fact this is what we are trying to do by virtue of the proposed new technical measures and the communication we are preparing on maximum sustainable yields.
with regard to the point raised by mrs corbey, we are looking at the question of certification and labelling regarding sustainable fisheries by means of the eco-labelling proposal, which we hope to present during the course of this year.
however, i would not agree with his point regarding the abandonment of the common fisheries policy, which i consider to be a cornerstone and the very basis of sustainable fisheries in the european union.
i agree with the point made by mr braghetto, mr gklavakis and mr nicholson on involving the fisheries sector – the various stakeholders and the industry – in the management of fisheries and in the various measures needed to attain and maintain sustainable fisheries.
i would remind you that the time you waste also costs the taxpayer money.
these include the intensification of external competitive pressures economic and technological , the ageing of the population, rising energy prices and the need to ensure energy security.
the presidency intends that the european council, in the framework of the integrated guidelines adopted last year, will identify specific priority actions to be implemented by the end of 2007. the spring summit, therefore, in the context of the renewed lisbon strategy, focuses on the themes identified as priorities in the national reform programmes and in the european commission report, namely research, development and innovation, small and medium-sized enterprise policy, employment and energy.
it is clear that action should continue to be taken in general in all three areas of the lisbon strategy (economic, social and environmental).
secondly, more must be done to develop the business environment, the entrepreneurial potential and, in particular, the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises.
finally, the energy issue will also play a particularly important role, not only because of the importance of this sector for job creation and growth, but also, of course, in the light of recent events.
the presidency of the council, like the commission, has no speaking time, but today we all have to allocate a scarce and non-renewable resource, namely time.
mr president, commissioner, we are holding this debate this afternoon in the face of extremely serious developments on the energy markets, particularly electricity and gas.
competition policy is key, but it does not solve everything in the energy field, and neither does internal market policy.
to talk about energy is to talk about security and the general interest.
energy is vital and essentially part of the current competence of the member states.
there are currently 25 energy markets with wide disparities, asymmetries in regulation and operators operating under different strategic choices and foreign policy commitments.
a european energy market with european energy services will not be born alone, but as the fruit of the european method, of common action and commitment.
the socialists are in favour of a european energy policy, as envisaged for the first time in the european constitution.
and if we are talking about economic patriotism, what spain needs to continue to grow and create jobs is more competition and not more protectionism, more liberalism and not political meddling or political interference, more energy security, which means integration into europe, and not remaining an island on this issue.
thirdly, as she has said, i ask you to integrate into a common market, which will be the only way to have energy sufficiency, cheap energy and an internal market, which is what we are striving for.
in the face of a global market in which we must compete, increasingly, for low labour costs, low environmental and hygiene requirements, i.e.
indeed, it is the most important of these countries and it is also rich in energy supplies and therefore it is being courted by many countries today.
mr president, in the coming days the heads of state and government will discuss the possibility of launching a common energy policy.
the european parliament fully shares the concerns of the citizens and that is why we must send a clear and strong message from this house today in favour of the union's energy independence.
to do this, we need to support a comprehensive energy mix, with a prominent role for emission-free energy sources such as nuclear and renewables.
on the demand side, we must emphasise the improvement of energy efficiency at all levels of consumption and production.
we must make a strong commitment to a genuinely free internal energy market, improving infrastructure and interconnections and abandoning the idea of the great national champions, which is now obsolete.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by asking the council not to waste this opportunity.
i fully agree that we must safeguard access to water, energy and a whole range of other essential goods.
with this new initiative, our environment will be improved by the contribution of clean fuels.
such an act, which, as we know very well, would not be legislative, would be a great help in encouraging the use of renewable energy and stimulating the cultivation of the raw materials that make it possible.
a very important subject is being raised, namely the energy debate, at a time when we are in the midst of a debate in this parliament.
mr president, quite recently we had the opportunity to discuss the issues related to the green paper on common energy policy.
i believe that the issues we are debating today – security of supply, environmental sustainability and competitiveness – are very closely related, and europe needs a european answer.
i really believe that trans-european energy networks will provide for enhanced development of the european union.
the trans-european energy network policy aims to secure and diversify additional gas import capacity from sources such as the caspian basin region, northern africa or the middle east.
again, for the electricity market, the trans-european energy networks will provide for the creation and fostering of real european interconnections and a european grid.
the decision was already proposed to parliament in december 2003. at that time, it looked at the new challenges created through enlargement as well as at the essential energy connections with third countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy landscape is at a crucial juncture.
this is demonstrated by the green paper and the recent reports of the european commission on the state of liberalisation of energy markets.
all of them highlight the need to strengthen interconnections between the member states and to deepen the development of transeuropean networks in order to improve all these energy services.
the european energy network is a reality only if unnecessary delays in the implementation of projects, especially those of european interest, are avoided.
i do not want to end my speech without mentioning the recent european summit of 23 and 24 march, at which energy policy was treated as what it is, a priority issue.
if millions of europeans could watch their ministers on television openly discussing european issues such as the energy crisis, the services directive, the retention of personal data or stem cell research, we could arouse much more interest in european issues and we could awaken from the slumber millions of europeans who show very little interest in european current affairs.
i would like to draw your attention in particular to the council decisions on the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, the improvement of legislation and energy policy.
secondly, i fully agree with one of the statements in mr garcía-margallo's report on the importance of paying more attention to the sustainability of public finances and, in particular, to how to deal with the consequences of population ageing.
commissioner almunia has referred to the ageing of the population and we should also talk about the consequences of immigration, the consequences of chinese imports once quantitative restrictions are over, the global imbalances, mainly in the united states, and finally the energy shock.
as regards the business climate, we ask for serious reflection.
energy, r & d & i, more market, more competition, more competitiveness.
therefore, we had restrictions with regard to the size of vessels, the age of vessels, the fact that vessels should not use towed gear and other conditions relating to ecological resource management and seaworthiness.
rather than moving in the direction of sustainable fisheries, according to the information we have, there are significantly more problems than there were before.
yes, obviously it is important to try to strike the right balance between the needs of the countries that would be affected by such disasters and long-term assistance, which should aim not to create further pressures or difficulties for those countries by trying to help rebuild the economy in a sustainable way.
mr president, given the high expectations which have been raised in the weeks before the spring council about the possibility of creating a common energy policy, the council's conclusions in this area are on the one hand hopeful but on the other disappointing.
they are encouraging because, for the first time, a council text includes a section devoted exclusively to the launching of a common energy policy, because it emphasizes the issues on which the european parliament has been insisting for some time, such as the correct application of existing directives, the need to meet the commitment of the member states on interconnections, the lack of investment in infrastructure and research and development, and the need to complete the internal energy market: a series of proposals which we hope the member states will implement quickly.
the council has once again lacked vision and ambition in this crucial field of energy.
we also miss a frank discussion between heads of state and government on the political barriers that some governments are putting up to the smooth functioning of the internal energy market.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by conveying to the council the satisfaction with which we have welcomed its proposal to fulfil existing obligations and the disappointment at the lack of political courage to establish, as the majority of this house and also the european commission are asking you to do, a genuine common energy policy, which the union urgently needs, because it is its future.
thirdly, i shall refer to energy policy.
finally, we are beginning to talk about energy policy, but rather than attacking protectionism, we must do energy policy, and we must start by achieving what the saxons call a level playing field.
the initiative under the common energy policy to meet the major challenge of adequate energy supply is another desirable development for which the commission should be commended and supported.
facilitating the transit of humanitarian aid to the palestinian population is essential, but beyond a strict interpretation of this obligation, israel should also facilitate movement in the occupied territories to enable economic sustainability, without thereby compromising the security of israelis, something that no one wants.
i am convinced that the majority of the population in both countries profoundly desires a peaceful and sustainable solution to the conflict.
only a negotiated settlement will be sustainable.
and all of this, as mr solana has said, in an environment of light and shadow.
the situation in iraq and iran is grim, where we really have to wait for the 30-day deadline that the un security council has given for iran to comply with the demands of the international atomic energy agency.
israel will not be able to carry out its announced unilateral withdrawal plan in an environment of increasing violence, social despair and civil war.
we also call for a renewal and updating of the ministerial political dialogue and recommend the adoption of a renewed bi-regional political agenda, to include new issues: threats to governance, the fight against terrorism and organized crime, the preservation of the environment and natural resources, the reconciliation of the positions of the member states of the european union with those of latin america at the united nations, and many other issues that have to be reflected in initiatives such as the signing of a euro-latin american charter for peace and security.
i would like to end, mr president, quickly, so as not to waste time, by mentioning two initiatives: the european investment bank facility, which we would like to have named after the commissioner, because of her tenacity, for having favoured a completely innovative social cohesion fund in the history of the european union; and an initiative which we do not want to see go to waste: the biregional solidarity fund, a fund which will not cost the union any money, because we are not asking for additional aid, a fund which is supported by the european parliament, by the latin american partners.
social cohesion, sustainable development, protection and enhancement of the environment on a global basis within the framework of the united nations are topics where we have traditionally worked well with our latin american partners.
without innovation, the lisbon strategy's objectives of sustainable jobs and growth will be impossible to achieve.
(parliament rejected the proposal) the socialist group has asked for the vote on the reinhard rack report (a6-0408/2005) on improving the environmental performance of the freight transport system (marco polo ii) to be moved to wednesday.
there he began a trade union and political career which has led him to the presidency of his country, the second poorest country in latin america after haiti, but which has the second largest gas reserves in all of latin america; a country in which two thirds of the population live in poverty and which has had throughout its history, after gaining its independence, difficult relations with its neighbours; a country which today represents an emergence of new political forces, such as that of the president, who won the elections with 53% of the votes and who is proposing, as you know, political measures on the nationalisation of the energy industry and the investments made there by many european companies, which are certainly interesting for us to discuss.
so far, of course, we have decided to recover our natural resources, renewable and non-renewable, natural resources that will help solve the social and economic problems of my country.
the commission justified this sequence on the basis that the benefits of reducing the fishing of baby eels remain uncertain and made clear its belief that the evolution of the population depended on factors other than fishing: pollution of waterways, loss of habitats, non-maintenance of ecological flows and obstacles to upward and downward migration.
for the first time the commission has negotiated a fisheries partnership with morocco, following the principles laid down in the council conclusions of july 2004. it prepares the ground for fruitful cooperation between the two parties with a view to achieving sustainable fishing and it will foster a favourable climate for further cooperation in all segments of the fisheries sector.
a substantial part of this amount – eur 13.5 million – is earmarked for support measures in view of the implementation of a sustainable and reasonable fisheries policy.
they include, amongst other things, an exclusivity clause which prohibits the existence of private licences or other private arrangements outside the scope of the agreement; scientific cooperation in order to promote responsible fishing in moroccan fishing zones; the possibility of a review of the fishing opportunities on the basis of scientific evidence and within the limits required by the sustainable management of morocco’s resources; vessel monitoring system requirements to reinforce checks on vessels operating in moroccan fishing zones; and the social clause applicable to local seamen signed on by community vessels.
it is not a purely economic agreement, as it seeks collaboration in the sustainable management of resources and improved cooperation.
on the basis of the conclusions of the annual scientific committee meetings, the two parties can agree jointly to modify the existing fishing possibilities as long as sustainable management of the resource is ensured.
they are asking for more security, as well a higher level of environmental protection, food safety and a more stable energy supply.
we will also continue to implement the sustainable development agenda.
the single market has brought huge benefits for citizens, but it is still unfinished business in the areas of energy, banking charges and roaming fees, for instance.
we need to rebuild a climate of confidence and trust.
in addition to the congestion this will cause, it will have a major impact on our environment: what we call 'external costs'.
we are also glad that the criterion of the volume of cargo has been taken into account when assessing the results of the aided measures, because what causes pollution and congestion is not the weight of the goods themselves but the volume they occupy and, consequently, the number of lorries needed to transport them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
in conclusion, i would like to express two wishes: from the experience of marco polo i and this improvement of marco polo ii, and in view of the review of the white paper on transport, i hope that the successes and achievements of this programme will help us to maintain the firm commitment to the modal transfer from the road to more sustainable modes and in this, logistics will obviously be the key.
before allowing the import or the growing of any gm product, the european food safety authority has to have the possibility to go through all the details – both from a health point of view and from an environmental point of view – to calculate the risk or the consequences for either health or the environment.
setting medium-term budgetary objectives, taking into account the situation of each country and its cyclical and sustainability conditions, provides a more coherent fiscal environment and better incentives for structural reforms that raise growth potential.
it does not seem that public investment should be subject to stricter rules than private investment, so it is reasonable for the council to investigate the authorisation of investments for objectives defined in the lisbon strategy, which are amortised in a similar period to business accounts, and it is also important to make progress on sustainability.
mr president, i would like to point out that the european fisheries sector needs sufficient resources both to continue with the commitments it has made to the sector and to continue defending the new policy we have imposed on ourselves - the development of sustainable fisheries - especially when the european fisheries policy mainly affects areas outside the convergence objective in which many of the regions that suffer most acutely from the crises that periodically affect this sector are located and which therefore continue to need community support.
globalisation, the unipolar world, the development of new economies, population mobility, the influence of extra-institutional centres in shaping political decisions, the asymmetrical threat of international terrorism, environmental problems - combined with energy insecurity - make up a complex and rapidly changing international environment that creates challenges as well as opportunities for the european union.
the crisis of the iranian nuclear programme, the parallel energy crisis which is looming, and which may be deeper than it seems, terrorism, developments in the balkans with a view to the finalization of the kosovo regime, the conditions in africa and the aids problem are situations which require the european union to articulate its own unified message and to shape its own strategy.
the solution of the palestinian problem, with a secure israel and a democratic palestine, together with stability in iraq, will also restore the political geography of this energy-critical area with which europe has privileged, historical, political, cultural and commercial relations.
they clearly demonstrate the commitment of the european union to the democratic process and the sustainable resolution of conflicts.
and speaking with one voice in international forums - as the commissioner and the council representative have already said - defending human rights with the voice of 25 countries behind us, with the energy that the union must develop at this moment, will strengthen us all and make it possible finally not to think again, as we are doing at the moment, about what we call torture, what we call murder, what we call security and what we call the unavoidable defence of fundamental rights.
the next item is the joint debate on - the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the energy community treaty (oj c6-0435/2005 2005/0178 (avc)) (wr: giles chichester) (a6-0134/2006) - the oral question to the council on the energy community treaty for south-east europe, by giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0024/2006 - b6-0020/2006).
- the oral question to the commission on the energy community treaty for south-east europe by mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0025/2006 - b6-0206/2006), and
the president of the council.
the debate has already shown that the energy community treaty is a historic treaty and not a one-way street in terms of its benefits.
that is certainly not how an integrated energy market can work.
this treaty not only contributes to energy security and supply but also to greater stability in europe as a whole.
it is perhaps interesting to recall that the treaty establishing the energy community was deliberately modelled on the european coal and steel community, which was the nucleus of the european union.
it was also mentioned here, for example, by mr paasilinna, that the energy community treaty has addressed the very local and specific energy and environmental concerns of south-eastern europe.
a number of speakers raised environmental concerns, such as the higher death rates due to harsh winters and environmental degradation from emissions from old power stations, the use of wood for domestic fires with the resulting deforestation and the unsustainable use of wetlands and watercourses for hydroelectricity generation.
in both regions, the question of energy is of particular importance, whether they are producers or transit countries.
it was also called 'nabucco', another important project that will help to ensure europe's energy security.
i therefore believe that the energy community is a unique achievement, a successful project which we want to continue to make successful.
there is no doubt that europe must speak with a common energy policy voice to third countries and that the integration of our neighbouring countries into the european internal market must be further promoted.
we will therefore involve parliament in all the important matters affecting the energy community, in accordance with the ec treaty but also, as i have already said, in a very comprehensive interpretation of these provisions.
the issue of affordability is very important because energy prices should be accessible to the citizens of these countries.
we have looked carefully at renewables and energy efficiency: chapter vi addresses this issue.
on kyoto, article 13 in chapter iii – even if it does not say very much – covers this and the provisions on renewables and energy efficiency in the treaty will definitely help to achieve the kyoto goals.
concerning prices, i think these countries are already paying extremely high prices for energy.
an energy community could bring down prices because of the new investments it will bring in.
this means that the energy community could bring much more stability – at least to prices – and could even reduce prices for consumers.
the treaty states that in some cases when energy is bought from third countries, the energy community could apply some restrictions if these countries neglect the environment or social issues.
it is very fair to look at these issues, because we cannot afford, if we want to promote sustainability, to buy energy from a third country where environmental standards are neglected and, as a result, the price of energy resources is perhaps cheaper.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we also welcome the innovative and modern take-up of mr delors' speech on growth and investment, in his call for sustainable transport infrastructures - rail, public transport and maritime transport - their accessibility and the optimisation of traffic management and road safety, and above all the need to complete the transeuropean networks, especially at the borders of states which are not sufficiently developed, as is the case in my country in the pyrenees.
we also approve of his call for the sustainable use of natural resources, especially water, and for the development of sustainable energy sources in combination with savings and efficiency.
mr president, i would like to thank the committees on regional development, the environment and agriculture and the respective rapporteurs, mr galeote quecedo, mr berend, mr capoualas santos and mrs estrela, for their hard and constructive work.
the incidence of extreme weather events and related natural disasters is increasing, perhaps fuelled by the effects of climate changes.
the four reports rightly point out the human, environmental and financial costs of such disasters.
not only are floods on the increase with changes to our climate, but droughts have become more prevalent in europe.
another relevant instrument for the future could be life+, the new financial instrument for the environment.
under the rural development programmes, they can also request that a ‘severe natural disaster’ be recognised as force majeure, in order to derogate from certain conditions under the ‘agri-environment’ measures.
firstly, a european strategy to combat natural disasters; secondly, the involvement of the regions and local authorities; thirdly, flexibility in the redistribution of available funds; fourthly, a community programme for the protection of forests; fifthly, a specific proposal, mr piebalgs, for a directive on the prevention and management of fires in the european union; sixthly, the application of the seventh framework research programme, the global observatory for safety and the environment and the galileo system to help with prevention and early warning; seventhly, programmes and information and educational campaigns coordinated with the member states; eighthly, a community civil protection mechanism; ninthly, that additional financial instruments such as eib loans or regional state aid should also be applied; and tenthly, that the european parliament should continue to exercise its responsibility for fire control and all the problems associated with fire.
as you know, a delegation visited spain and portugal and we were able to see the scale of the ecological and human tragedy on the ground.
we are saddened by the effects of catastrophes that have hit us hard and saddened that we have had to devote time, energy and stomach to countering unfortunate manipulations.
- mr president, this house will vote tomorrow on the report on energy efficiency for which i have been responsible as rapporteur.
following the energy crisis last january, the steady rise in the price of a barrel of crude oil, among other factors, has reopened a deep debate on the lack of a common energy policy within the union, the vulnerability of our supply system, the worrying increase in protectionist attitudes and the need to substantially improve our habits and the efficiency of our consumption.
in my view, which i believe is shared by the vast majority of members of this house, improving energy efficiency is the fastest, least expensive and most job-creating and economically growth-promoting way to reduce our external dependence and combat climate change.
in addition, the promotion of energy efficiency is perfectly in line with the lisbon agenda, which is in dire need of a revitalizing boost.
the report also aims to remind member states that, if the various directives in force were respected, the union could reach 50% of its energy saving targets and a large part of the commitments under the kyoto protocol without having to take any further action.
the report we are going to adopt tomorrow also contains recommendations which are worth highlighting here: the need to invest massively in infrastructure improvements - taking into account that we suffer an average loss of 12% in transmission networks, with losses of up to 20% in some member states - the completion of the internal energy market; increased investment in research, development and innovation of more efficient technologies; the introduction of more stringent requirements for household appliances and stricter control of products offered on the european market which do not meet minimum standards; the inclusion of efficiency criteria in relations with developing countries; and a reinforced dialogue with the main energy producing countries.
last but not least, several parts of the document highlight the importance of the public sector, including european institutions, playing an exemplary role in implementing energy efficiency measures, whether in the design of public buildings, the renewal of vehicle fleets or the inclusion of energy efficiency criteria in public tenders.
we all agree that europe is facing the effects of climate change, rising oil prices and tensions with russia over gas supplies.
however, the european political response to our energy vulnerability may not yet be up to the challenges we face.
in recent years, priority has been given to the completion of the european energy market.
however, reality shows that progress towards a common energy policy is essential and that the commitment of the member states is necessary to move decisively towards this objective.
on the other hand, greater financial commitment to research and development in the field of energy and, in particular, to increase efficiency, especially in buildings and transport, is also essential.
in any case, one of the essential ways is to improve energy efficiency, which can save europe a huge amount of energy.
and since it is mentioned, i will tell you what is happening: that the valencian community is an example of a model of orderly and coherent growth, a model of sustainable development, despite the negative image of the destruction of the territory that, both from the european socialist party and from the government of mr rodríguez zapatero, is trying to transfer to the institutions of the european union and to spanish society.
in addition, the area protected by the consell in this legislature is 2 500% - i said that correctly, 2 500% - larger than the area reclassified for urban development, which shows that the valencian government is committed to protecting the area and developing quality and sustainable urban planning.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on the environment and the rapporteur, mrs klaß, for the excellent work they have done on the second reading of this proposal.
groundwater also has great environmental value.
before the common position was adopted, the scope and applicability of community standards for groundwater quality, and in particular the issue of nitrates in relation to the nitrate pollution directive, were discussed.
in this respect, the commission considers that the nitrates directive, the water framework directive and this directive pursue the same objectives in terms of preventing and reducing nitrates pollution.
the common position also simplifies the criteria for the detection and reversal of pollution trends and clarifies the measures to be taken to prevent and reduce pollutant inflows.
i hope that we will be able to complete the legislative procedure as soon as possible, because we really need this new directive, which will allow the environmental objectives of the water framework directive to be assessed on the basis of clear quality criteria and groundwater protection measures.
i think we all agree that the protection of groundwater is important and that this should be one of the main objectives of european legislation, in order to correct the current pollution situation and prevent future ones.
the pollution of groundwater causes situations which are difficult and costly to correct.
finally, i hope that the house will approve the amendments which we adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and that the council will take note of them, because they seek to strengthen the quality requirements and promote prevention, in order to avoid new polluting discharges.
environmental policy at european union or national level depends heavily on spatial data, or in other words information that can be geographically placed on a map.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution of the atmosphere by nitrates and their salts is a very good one.
i am pleased to note that these issues have largely been addressed thanks to the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and adopted by the committee on the environment.
i have no doubt that this proposal will be useful as a basic tool for the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of environmental policies at all levels and of policies or activities which may have a direct or indirect impact on the environment.
i also think it is crucial that it is designed as a tool for providing public information and in this respect we hope that inspire will complement public sector information and the directives on access to environmental information adopted under the aarhus convention, which we adopted not long ago, and that it will address a number of issues not covered by those directives, such as data sharing between public authorities and interoperability issues.
the environment and local culture are promoted when the authorities restore monuments, open museums, create natural parks, etc.
and, most importantly, tourism concerns human beings, enriches them through culture and environmental and social awareness.
i therefore ask the commission to make an imaginative effort and to explore, in cooperation with all the parties concerned and, of course, in association with the european parliament, some provision aimed at ensuring that member states with a strong tourist activity establish in their national strategic frameworks and in their operational programmes measures enabling regions to implement and finance projects consistent with the development of sustainable tourism adapted to local conditions and potentials.
in this connection, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, that greater investment is needed in scientific research, which will enable us to know all the potential of the marine environment and ecosystems, not only - and i insist on this point - in the interests of fisheries, but also in other important matters such as pollution, climate change, progress in health or pharmacology, food and animal nutrition and the management of coastal uses.
the green group considers the seventh framework programme to be a great opportunity to bet on innovation, to bet on a new europe, based on clean technologies, based on the knowledge of thousands and thousands of small businesses, laboratories and young people, betting on a future that creates jobs, social cohesion and sustainability at the same time.
one challenge has been to increase the participation of small businesses and to create this cohesion, another challenge has been the environmental crisis.
this is also due to our current energy crisis.
we deeply regret the current disregard and marginalisation of renewable energy and efficiency within current programmes.
we regret doubly that we were not able to secure a separate budget line for renewable energy.
today, the european citizen cannot know how much money is spent on solar or wind energy.
we know, however, that a great deal more money is being invested in nuclear energy.
this is a political problem, a real problem, because in the short and medium term, in a few years, we will have to deal with the energy crisis precisely with renewable energies and efficiency.
there has been a serious transparency problem because we have not been able to know, not only in the energy field but in many other areas of the sixth framework programme, how the money has been spent.
it means consolidating our leadership in fusion energy as an important way of achieving a massive, sustainable and secure energy supply and how much it can help the future of european industry.
and as for fission, i reaffirm our commitment to renewable energy, although i accept that, today, nuclear fission energy is inevitable, because of the strong demand for energy in the face of the still few mass sources at our disposal.
i insist on the need for further research into safety, waste management and... we'll keep working.
it should not be forgotten that one of the union's major objectives is to lead a policy of competitiveness and economic efficiency in a framework of sustainable development.
and when we talk about sustainable development, we immediately think of the marine environment and, in connection with it, the consequences of fishing activity.
it is not by stepping back at this scale that we can lead sustainable development policies.
the european strategy for sustainability is an important topic and an absolute priority of the austrian presidency.
in the past months, we have been working on the subject in ten different council configurations to deepen the quality of the sustainability strategy in a broad, horizontal way, including with a dedicated 'friends of the presidency' working group, in order to evaluate and implement the sustainability strategy for europe.
we want the european union to take a leading role internationally, to demonstrate its capabilities internationally as a 'sustainable union'.
we want to send clear signals towards sustainable development.
this renewed eu sustainability strategy should be clearly visible to the outside world.
you have mentioned on several occasions how the question of the link between the lisbon strategy and the european union's sustainability strategy can be seen in terms of qualitative growth.
we want to make it politically clear that sustainable development does not, as some people claim, slow down economic growth, but rather supports and enables smart growth in areas of the future.
we have repeatedly referred to issues such as renewable energy, environmental technology, greening public procurement, resources and energy efficiency, the environment as a factor for more employment and smart and innovative products and services, and mobility solutions in this strategy.
and the purpose is to improve the quality of life and the quality of the environment in europe, while also ensuring long-term competitiveness.
if the people and the environment are doing well, the economy is doing well.
the main objective is to increase the visibility of the eu sustainability strategy at political level and to enhance its value.
we want to make it clear that the eu's sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs are not mutually exclusive, competitive or even overlapping, but rather complementary.
the eu's sustainable development strategy provides a comprehensive framework within which the lisbon strategy, with its refocus on growth and jobs, can also act as a driver of a dynamic economy.
the two strategies, in our view, underline that economic, social and environmental objectives can and should be mutually reinforcing and therefore conceived, developed and promoted together.
the objectives and content priorities of the sustainable development strategy, which also compared to gothenburg 2001, become key challenges for sustainable development, are clearly addressed on paper and in the strategy, and also concretised by objectives and actions: climate change and environmentally friendly energy, sustainable mobility and transport planning, sustainable production and consumption patterns an important guide to the future , management of natural resources, health, social inclusion, demography and migration arguably one of the central challenges for the continent and global challenge in terms of poverty reduction and sustainable international development.
as a key new challenge, the issue of sustainable consumption and production patterns was discussed in a particularly controversial way, but was then also included in the strategy.
you see, we've been working very hard on this sustainability strategy.
we have tried to resolve this apparent competition between lisbon and sustainability, and i am very pleased that, taking your comments into account and after intensive negotiations with the member states, we are on the verge of adopting this eu sustainability strategy in the coming days.
mr president, the sustainable development and lisbon strategies together address issues that really concern people.
european value and quality of life surveys tell us that citizens want prosperity, but they also want a clean environment, good health, social protection and equality.
the commission put forward its proposal for the review of the european union’s sustainable development strategy in december.
sustainable development is an over-arching objective of the union.
the european union sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy work hand in hand towards this objective, although they should be kept separate.
together the strategies are an agenda for change, for europe to adapt to a changing global context: new competitors, an aging population, and the impacts of demographic change, increased resource scarcities, climate change, biodiversity, and ecosystem loss, for example.
the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy are complementary.
the much-needed economic growth must be decoupled from environmental degradation and must better safeguard social cohesion to ensure it can be sustained.
by achieving results on sustainable development, we improve our chances of regaining citizens’ confidence in the european union.
to achieve this aim, the lisbon strategy comprises actions in a wide range of policy areas, many of which are central to sustainable development strategy, such as energy efficiency, environmental technologies resource use, and others.
a good example is climate change, but also unsustainable modes of transport, social exclusion, health and how we use our natural resources.
there have been more than 20 years of debate on sustainable development, but progress in addressing unsustainable trends is too slow.
the commission’s revised sds provides a new political drive for sustainable policies that apply to all policy areas.
we are talking about a new drive aimed at making the difficult changes across society that are necessary for sustainable development.
the review of the european union’s sustainable development strategy is about how we can do things better to get results: first, about how we design policy, including policies within the lisbon agenda; second, about implementing what has been agreed; third, about making sure that we involve all those who need to act.
the european union institutions cannot achieve sustainable development alone.
by clarifying priorities, we will also facilitate the coordination of the lisbon and sustainable development strategies.
the renewed sustainable development strategy re-emphasises the importance of an integrated approach.
good use of impact assessments that address the economic, social and environmental impacts of proposals is key.
mr president, i am less optimistic than those who have spoken so far, because i think that the document that has been drawn up is a highly declarative document, which covers many existing topics, many speeches that we have all heard and which are leading to the concept of sustainable development becoming weaker and less respected.
because for me, the structure in the methodology -- and i speak as a politician, as an academic -- is part of a mistake: part of repeating old topics, and not really analyzing what the problems of sustainable development are today.
it also ignores problems such as the relationship between the economy and sustainable development.
today, economic activities cannot be separated from sustainability, and, if we want to link it to the lisbon theme, even less so: that is to say, there is no employment, no possibility of development for the underdeveloped countries if we do not take into account which economy is the right one.
there are economic activities necessary to maintain biodiversity.
have we realized that if we want to talk about climate change and development in africa, we have to talk about nuclear energy to solve the problem of getting water through desalination and getting clean energy?
if we are talking about climate change, we must also talk about nuclear energy, as a substitute for 30 or 40 per cent of what is produced.
the migrations we have from north to south in europe are producing a sustainable development stress, as are the african ones.
that is something that must be addressed, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of sustainable development.
we have repeatedly expressed our deep regret that the iranian government has not taken the steps which the international atomic energy agency board of governors and the united nations security council in particular consider essential and has threatened, until recently, not to do so in the future.
the council has not denied iran's right to peaceful uses of nuclear energy in accordance with its obligations under the non-proliferation treaty.
and, on the basis of the proposals of august 2005, as reaffirmed in the february 2006 conclusions, the eu would be ready and remains so today to support the development of a safe, sustainable and non-proliferation-compliant civilian nuclear programme, provided and this is the other side that the concerns of the international community are fully taken into account and confidence, especially with regard to iran's intentions, is restored.
i would like to stress once again that the future european fisheries fund must take account of the need for modernisation and renewal for reasons of safety and also for reasons of energy saving, in order to alleviate the crisis in the fisheries sector caused by the increase in diesel prices.
low-water fishing, when well regulated, is an essential element of ecosystem conservation.
we have seen the commission's model for a policy debate, and the first time at the spring summit it was on energy.
(applause from the centre) we have started the energy policy.
an action plan is being prepared for the 2007 spring summit, which will ensure security of supply for consumers, but also make a big impact on the environment through energy saving and renewable energy.
the sustainability strategy, a new, revised and now comprehensive instrument, was adopted at this european council.
this strategy of environmental compatibility is an essential element of the european model of life and we therefore support it in the long term.
(applause from the centre) and it proves that our ambition to create 10 million additional jobs by 2010 is realistic if the environment is right and if we do our homework right.
we want to cooperate on energy, where the americans are ahead of us.
the americans are far ahead of us in research into renewable energy sources, and we will make a joint effort to achieve the kyoto targets, to protect the climate and much more.
it is only necessary to advocate for it, and olli rehn, in particular, who has invested a great deal of time and energy, can confirm this.
and particularly on the issue of climate change we need to take action at european union level for the simple reason that in the 6th community action programme the european union has agreed that it must identify, propose and take measures if the international civil aviation organisation had not proposed measures by 2002. that deadline has long since passed.
in any event, the measures we are considering will not bring the european union into conflict with our commitments under the international civil aviation organisation, since the organisation itself has advocated an open emissions trading system.
in particular, it has accepted the inclusion of emissions from international aviation in existing national emissions trading systems.
the european union contributes about 50% of the total carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation in relation to the countries in annex i, i.e.
mr president, i welcome an opinion report from this house seeking alternatives and measures to mitigate the negative effects of aviation on the environment and its impact on climate change.
in this way we will increase our objective of transparency of environmental measures taken at community level.
i think that all this work has led to a strengthening of access to information on environmental matters, by making the exceptions more restrictive and their interpretation more restrictive.
i would also like to stress, with regard to public participation in decision-making, that it is very important that public participation has been extended in the preparation, modification or revision of environmental plans and programmes financed by the european investment bank.
it is also an achievement for the public that when decisions are taken on environmental plans or programmes, the relevant community institution or body should inform, and not just make reasonable efforts - as the text said earlier - to inform, the public in all decisions, because in this way we increase transparency in this type of process.
it is a legal tool which can help us in many cases to preserve the environment.
parliament has introduced important changes to the regulations which are used to implement this policy and which have considerably improved its content in terms of the environment, accessibility for people with disabilities and participation by civil society.
innovation means new methods to enhance energy efficiency, ecotechnologies, clean production, to achieve a more competitive economy and create more environmental and social well-being.
the commission also proposes seven new cross-sectoral policy initiatives of major importance: increased protection of intellectual property rights and anti-counterfeiting, the creation of a high level group on competitiveness, energy and the environment and support for fair and reciprocal access of our products to new markets.
this will make it possible to harmonize navigability on rivers, both in terms of social safety and environmental standards, including a proposal for non-regression in those countries where such a danger exists.
i can only hope that my city, which will be hosting the international exhibition in 2008 on the subject of water and sustainable development, will be able to carry out projects to restore the navigability of the ebro river, among other rivers, as a means of collective passenger transport and, of course, to facilitate its use for sport and tourism.
i would like to highlight in particular the new system for the notification and authorisation of shipments of radioactive waste and spent fuel, which in my view maximises the usefulness of the automatic acceptance procedure, which was already highlighted by the european economic and social committee as an essential element for the proper functioning of the internal market.
the amendments voted in committee are also fully in line with the initial objective of the proposal, which is to bring the legislation in force into line with the joint convention of the international atomic energy agency.
as regards the amendments tabled by mrs harms, i would like to make a couple of comments: firstly, that the convention makes very clear the conditions under which member states are allowed to export radioactive waste and spent fuel, and secondly, her insistence that information on shipments of these substances be made public runs counter to much of her argument in committee when she warned of the danger of these falling into unreliable hands.
i therefore hope that this semester priority will be given to this problem and not just to russia and energy.
crowley specifically mentioned new sources of energy, and i can fully agree with what he said in his speech.
paasilinna raised a very sensitive question as to whether energy policy is a weapon for some in the world.
our answer is that energy policy must not be used as a weapon in world politics.
on the contrary, the eu's policy should be that energy policy is a normal part of business.
in particular, the eu-russia energy policy is part of the strategic partnership.
russia needs european technology and our payments, and we need russian energy.
the commission is also taking into account all the points made in the debate on climate change, including those made by mr hassi.
as i said in my speech, they relate to both the impact on our competitiveness and the environmental and social impact.
another issue which is a high priority for this parliament, and which is also a priority for the finnish presidency, is energy.
firstly, we are in favour of a constructive partnership with russia in the field of energy, but what we are proposing - and this was clearly stated in the strategy paper that the commission produced - is not just to develop good relations with russia, it is diversification.
the solution to europe's energy problem is diversification: diversification of the country of origin, of the country of supply, diversification of the countries of transit and also diversification of energy sources, in particular by increasing investment in renewable energies.
so the solution for energy is diversification and not to lock ourselves into a relationship with one partner, however important that partner may be.
in the negotiating mandate for our relations with that country which we have presented to the council, the first point that appears is not energy, it is not even trade, no, the first point concerns human rights, respect for democracy, respect for the principles of the rule of law.
but the right to development is comprehensive and means economic and cultural exchange, conflict management, the fight against terrorism, environmental protection and policies to promote equality between men and women.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on international trade of the european parliament, noting what the commissioner has just said about the excellent climate of cooperation and joint work we have between parliament and the commission, i would like to express my regret in this case for a small incident relating to the formal transmission of this proposal to parliament for information, which has prevented us from reacting in a timely manner, although we are still in time.
mr president, this weekend there was a fire at a chemical plant in the galician town of caldas de reis, which was storing chemicals, and as a result toxic waste was dumped into the umia river.
i met him as director general of transport and energy.
it has not given it the 'last chance' to formulate and implement a european energy policy.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you today the proposal for a regulation on the financing of measures to combat pollution caused by ships.
the purpose of this regulation is to provide the european maritime safety agency with the financial means it needs to carry out the new tasks assigned to it in the field of the fight against pollution caused by ships.
since the agency's responsibility for pollution control is intended to be exercised in the long term, this text defines a financial envelope to be charged to the community budget on the basis of a multiannual commitment.
the purpose of the proposal is therefore to lay down the procedures for the community contribution, set at eur 154 million 2004 reference amount for the period 2007-13. the proposal provides that the financial means made available to the agency are to cover all the pollution control activities of the agency as listed in its action plan adopted in october 2004. among these activities, i would particularly highlight operational assistance to member states wishing to strengthen national pollution response mechanisms by means of specialised vessels: in fact reserve vessels equipped for the recovery of pollutants at sea which the agency will make available to member states.
another activity was the development, in addition to aerial surveillance, of a satellite imaging service to enable pollution to be detected and thus assist the member states in their fight against illicit discharges and accidental spills of hydrocarbons.
this constructive approach between the two institutions should make it possible to adopt the regulation quickly, so that a viable system for combating pollution at community level can be established without delay.
at the same time, as you have said, mr commissioner, we have had a fluid and fruitful relationship with the commission and the council, which has resulted in compromise amendments which will allow this report to be adopted at first reading and, consequently, to avoid delay in the measures envisaged in the context of the new tasks entrusted to the agency, to combat pollution from ships more effectively.
the new tasks assigned to the agency are aimed at increasing maritime safety and preventing pollution from ships in the waters of the member states.
it should be recalled that the purpose of the agency is to provide the appropriate framework for the development of concrete actions to increase maritime safety and prevent pollution by ships in the waters of the member states, and to provide the states with additional means when national response means are insufficient to deal with a large-scale disaster.
the additional means in question are essentially long-term chartering of vessels through availability contracts with commercial shipowners who have vessels with sufficient capacity to adapt to pollution control operations.
it should also be noted that the rapporteur's aim of extending the scope of the regulation so that the agency's actions take account not only of pollution by oil but also of pollution by harmful and dangerous substances has been achieved.
on this point, consensus has been reached by using the term 'pollution from ships' to describe pollution caused not only by oil but also by harmful and dangerous substances.
it is also worth noting that it was agreed that the agency would play an important role in the development of a centralised satellite imagery service for monitoring, early detection of pollution and identification of ships responsible, increasing the availability of data and efficiency in the fight against marine pollution.
mr president, commissioner, the european maritime safety agency is ready to get involved in the fight against marine pollution from the thousands of ships that ply the community's waters every day, but it must be acknowledged beforehand that there is an inability of the member states to respond to the great ecological disasters we suffer from time to time, such as the sadly remembered cases of the shipwreck of the erika and, above all, the prestige.
it is therefore appropriate and necessary to adopt community measures to supplement and support those established by the individual member states, without thereby relieving the latter of their primary responsibility both in preventing and responding to marine pollution.
among those support measures, the european maritime safety agency shall establish a system for the collection and analysis of information on pollution from ships, which would include satellite photographic monitoring, scientific and technical assistance and operational assistance, by vessels distributed over various maritime geographical regions and ready to intervene in the event of accidents and disasters at the request of the member states concerned.
however, i would like to say that i am convinced that the greatest pollution at sea is not caused by accidents and disasters, but by a great lack of environmental awareness and a superiority of economic objectives on the part of unscrupulous people who consciously and voluntarily clean the tanks and bilges of ships on the high seas.
i therefore support the introduction of automatic mechanisms on all ships which monitor the levels of tanks and bilge tanks at regular intervals and which are used to determine whether or not the waste has been emptied in the waste dumps provided for in the marpol regulations.
although the commission expressly recognised that the area most affected by large-scale oil spills over the past 35 years had been the galician coast, with more than seven spills of more than 10 000 tonnes, of the seven anti-pollution vessels contracted by the agency, not a single one was located in galicia: five in the baltic, one in the mediterranean and one in the north atlantic area of the english channel.
but, to be fair, i will also say that one of the commitments that this parliament took from the commission after the prestige disaster was the presence of a pollution control vessel based in galicia, and in this connection i have to tell mr barrot that the smooth dialogue with the commission, both with the director of transport and with the director of the agency itself, has given us peace of mind.
amendment no 13, which divides the atlantic coast into two zones, as mrs ayala and i had requested, mr de ruiter's visit to galicia and the good communication between the regional government and the agency ensure that the european union's commitments to galicia in relation to the deployment of a pollution control vessel on the galician coast will not be ignored.
i have also noted your concern to ensure that the efforts of the agency in the field of pollution control will not be reflected in a disengagement on the part of the member states.
i thank you, mr president: the quality of this debate, like your various suggestions and proposals, shows how much parliament feels involved in this effort to combat marine pollution and protect our european maritime area, which is one of our riches.
as i said before, we immediately sent experts who are still there as the problem still exists: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the pollution of the baltic sea, and that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the pollution of the baltic sea.
because, ladies and gentlemen, the fires in southern europe are, like the floods in central europe, a recurring environmental emergency.
because other factors are already at play here, such as the climate, which this summer was very extreme with very strong winds, very high temperatures, with no or very little rainfall, or the state of the mountain which, for socioeconomic reasons, is abandoned, full of highly combustible weeds that help it to spread, as well as the planting of inappropriate forest species and the abandonment, for decades, of a real forestry policy.
it is effective because it does allow us to see the areas of climate risk or the areas of risk of outright natural disaster, but it does not allow us to see what the areas of socioeconomic risk are.
mr president, when an oil tanker sinks, we are all very aware, first of all, of the gravity of the situation, of its environmental impact and of the need to tackle its response together.
in galicia there has been a new environmental tragedy, which is added to other ecological disasters, such as that of the prestige ship.
unlike the prestige case, i believe that today there is nothing to be said against the management and response given to the disaster by the xunta de galicia and the state government, but the dimensions of the fire were such that they highlighted the need for greater solidarity and for european means to assist the member states in extinguishing large fires, or to tackle floods, as we are going to approve tomorrow for the financing of the fight against marine pollution.
the xunta de galicia has already launched a plan worth 126 million euros until 2009 to restore the environment and, in addition, to move towards adequate forestry development, for which the other community funds must be open and mobilised.
four dead, 514 injured, 35 population centres displaced, the main communication routes cut off, a multitude of dead and injured animals: in short, a real tragedy, an unprecedented environmental and human catastrophe, with incalculable economic and social consequences.
without a doubt, the worst environmental catastrophe in galicia.
how will it affect the climate, biodiversity, groundwater, the devastated spaces of the nature network?
we therefore call for the urgent mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for galicia, which has been devastated by fire and is facing a very serious ecological, economic and social situation.
the consequences of the disaster were thus greatly aggravated: 4 dead, more than 500 injured, more than 100 000 hectares burned, 4% of the galician forest area burned, serious environmental damage and, also, it has had serious repercussions on livestock, the tourist sector, etc.
a very wide and rich range of issues was raised, from trans-boundary pollution – fires in russia, which should of course be raised in the framework of eu-russia cooperation – to stricter criminal laws regarding arson and arsonists, which lie within the exclusive competence of the member states.
in 2006, the commission’s civil protection mechanism responded to floods, earthquakes, forest fires, marine pollution and emergencies with a humanitarian dimension.
you have also worked hard for sustainable development, respect for human rights and the rights of minorities, something which is unfortunately also very relevant today in some countries of the union.
you have also made decisions on energy policy: you have democratically opted for nuclear energy for reasons of security and diversification.
climate change, pollution, natural disasters, infectious diseases, and economic uncertainty are threats that cannot be countered militarily.
the union's strength lies in the wide range of instruments at its disposal, from humanitarian aid to agricultural, trade, development and environmental policies.
the most sustainable way to resolve conflicts is to engage widely.
in addition to immediate humanitarian aid, the union will have a major role to play in reconstruction and environmental remediation.
recently, energy issues have been particularly high on the agenda.
it is good that the eu is seeking a common approach to energy issues, even though the choice of energy sources is a national matter.
the eu's external relations must be more closely linked to energy policy so that the union's external relations can support energy security.
this eu-russia energy dialogue must be based on trust.
we must also all work together to combat climate change by reducing emissions, conserving energy, developing cleaner technologies and promoting the use of renewable energy sources.
we know that the energy resources available today are not limitless.
the eu must also seek to establish a broad cooperation with russia in the environmental sector.
the northern dimension focuses in particular on environmental cooperation and social and health issues.
mr president, this report we are debating today on the european social model for the future, of which i would like to highlight the consensus reached between the two major political groups - and i would like to expressly congratulate my colleague josé silva and also proinsias de rossa on the effort made - is good news, because it is intended to contribute to solidarity, greater social cohesion, a better quality of life and a more sustainable future for social security systems in europe.
i could perhaps say in one sentence that the commission has sent a warning letter concerning the possible poor application by the spanish authorities of the amended directive on the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment in the case of the construction of the m30 motorway in madrid.
i would point out that the commission's letter of formal notice made it very clear that, in its view, the content of directive 85/337, which makes environmental impact assessment essential for this type of public works, had not been respected.
it is clear that china is making great progress and that modernisation is now becoming more advanced, but it must also be borne in mind that this accelerated and rapid pace of modernisation has its risks from a social and environmental point of view.
i wonder what issues can be agreed with the united states of america: the death penalty, respect for international law, the demilitarisation of security, climate change?
but we must also recognize that china faces enormous challenges, political, social, economic and environmental challenges; it must of course face the consequences of its rapid growth and, at the same time, it must also respond to the growing expectations of its citizens in the area of freedoms, of course, education, health and many other areas.
the first thing i would like to stress, as rapporteur for this report, is the indisputable role that a credible label or certification can play, among the measures that can be taken, in trying to ensure sustainable fishing.
in the meantime, with the market becoming increasingly aware of environmental issues, private promoters of fisheries eco-labels are making their move, causing total confusion among consumers, at best, and more than likely discrediting the system in general, because when you can apply a surplus value to a product by saying it is ecological, without having to prove it, the way to fraud is served.
the commission has also proposed that the criteria for defining sustainable fishery products be established in a sound manner.
and in this report, with the invaluable and varied contributions of many colleagues, including those from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the european parliament is also making its contribution to defining the lines that will allow consumers, politicians and the fishing industry to become more involved in the sustainability of fisheries resources.
changing lifestyles and the introduction of new technologies have changed the european consumer, who is increasingly concerned about his health and also about the protection of the environment.
the fact is that the growing importance which consumers attach to sustainable development has given rise to a bewildering collection of private labels, without any control, which can distort their original purpose, namely to guarantee an environmentally friendly catch and processing system.
if, in addition, additional information is provided on the sustainability of the product, the independence of the inspection and accreditation body must be guaranteed, as the rapporteur rightly points out.
the committee on fisheries shares the commission's objectives, such as sustainability and the need for european action in this area.
on the issue of the harvesting of fisheries resources in a sustainable way, i wish to refer to the commission’s communication, which underlines that the aim of the policy on eco-labelling for fish and fisheries products is based on the concept of sustainable fishing.
the communications spells out that eco-labelling schemes, if based on clearly-defined criteria and appropriate indicators, can assist in both monitoring the progress made on sustainability in fishing and in raising public awareness on sustainability issues.
it goes on to make reference to sustainable exploitation with regard to article 3(e) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002.
moreover, eco-labels offer the possibility of helping to combat iuu fishing and of promoting proof with regard to sustainable fishing practices.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sifunakis, on his work, which underlines the specific nature and importance of europe's cultural, natural and artistic heritage, which generates numerous benefits, both in social and cultural terms and in environmental and economic terms.
at a time when, on the one hand, rural abandonment, depopulation and the economic crisis, and on the other, fires and the proliferation of natural disasters, are highlighting the urgent need for agricultural professionals who work and care for our environment and who look after the sustainability and future of our territory and our landscape, this report is very timely, because it emphasises the need to develop an effective policy based mainly on a sustainable balance between the population and the environment, and on an integrated approach to traditional agricultural areas, especially rural environments.
preserving the natural environment is one of the main goals of the european union.
it is really important to preserve natural assets, but in small ecosystems, the environment, human settlements and cultural heritage are fully interconnected.
in this sense, the government of the balearic islands is working on the development and implementation of sustainable development policies based on the convergence of the objectives of sustainability and competitiveness of tourism activity, and especially on the safeguarding and improvement of the natural, cultural and architectural heritage.
that is the way forward, a way forward marked by a civil society sensitive to the particular fragility of island regions and with a high level of environmental awareness.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission on its proposals and also the rapporteurs, because they have once again shown their high commitment to the environment.
i sincerely believe that it is too small for a sector in increasing difficulty and that it also fulfils multiple functions with positive effects for the environment and social cohesion.
i also think that we should be more ambitious in the field of vehicles, which are the main cause of pollution in cities and of external dependence in the energy sector.
finally, it is important to continue to implement and develop the directive on integrated pollution prevention and control.
this directive will enable industries to continue to innovate and to control their emissions more effectively, without having to close any installations.
we also expect rapid growth in our forestry, mining and other natural resource-based industry, based upon policies that aim at creating an investment climate that will encourage investment in activities in which liberia can compete internationally.
we cannot afford to waste any time, and in many projects we need to speed the process of disbursement and implementation.
we need, therefore, to function fully in this multilingual environment, because it defines us and provides us with a link to citizens.
the strategic guidelines therefore include important recommendations, including: the creation of more and better jobs; innovation and the knowledge economy, which contribute to closing the digital divide; environmental investments, which ensure sustainability and the management of natural resources; transport infrastructure and accessibility, which allow equal opportunities for those who need it most, such as the elderly, people with disabilities and women.
in this respect, the european union's capacity to act, its speed of decision-making and its ability to respond to changes in the environment are crucial.
madam president, our assessment of this commission communication is generally positive, since we believe that it responds to the demands of the sector, in the sense of seeking solutions that allow the profitability and sustainability of the fisheries sector and that ensure a viable future for it.
we also tell the commission that we consider it necessary to deepen and extend some of the measures contained in that communication, for example those relating to the improvement of marketing or those relating to research for the development of more efficient energy use.
the european scientific committee stated and recalled in its opinion of 28 and 29 september last year that there are significant gaps in the knowledge needed for risk assessment, for example in relation to the characterisation of nanoparticles, their detection and measurement, data, doses, responses, evolution, persistence of nanoparticles in humans and the environment and all aspects of environmental toxicology.
once released into the environment, very little is known about the behaviour and reaction of nanoparticles and a strong research push is needed from the european union in this field.
it is a multidisciplinary field that opens up a whole range of new opportunities and solutions to real needs of citizens and businesses, and is therefore expected to make a major contribution to the european union's achievement of its objectives in terms of sustainable development and competitiveness.
this requires not only better investment in r & d, but also ensuring research excellence, sufficient qualified staff, better coordination of resources and policy coordination with member states, and further improving the business environment, mainly by modernising our smes and creating new ones based on knowledge, so that excellent r & d in nanosciences and nanotechnologies translates into new products and new processes.
since the beginning of the humanitarian emergency in the early 1990s, we have been a major donor, delivering some eur 345 million in assistance since 1995. we also played our part in support of earlier non-proliferation efforts through the korean peninsula energy development organisation, and we have offered political support for the six-party talks, although we are not direct participants in that process.
the bull contributes to the maintenance of the dehesas, contributes to the protection of the environment, contributes to rural development.
we advocate improving animal welfare because only by improving animal welfare can we promote human health, the environment and social justice.
our report therefore calls for a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced agreement based on three pillars: a political-institutional chapter that strengthens democratic dialogue and political consultation; a cooperation chapter that promotes sustainable economic and social development; and a trade chapter that establishes an advanced free trade area and covers a broad agenda that, in addition to reciprocal liberalisation of trade in goods and services, includes investment, public procurement, protection of intellectual property rights and competition cooperation, as well as trade defence instruments, trade facilitation and a binding dispute settlement mechanism.
; nama, where we include a special reference to fisheries and the sensitivity of certain processed products such as canned tuna; services, where real improvements and clear and stable regulatory frameworks are needed; investments, which are fundamental to sustainable economic development and the creation of jobs and wealth; public procurement and intellectual property, as well as the clear identification of possible obstacles to trade and the approximation of certification, accreditation, standardisation, etc.
in addition to the strictly technical and commercial aspects, the report also covers the necessary industrial, labour and social cooperation mechanisms for small and mediumsized enterprises and aspects relating to technology, science, environmental measures, energy and communication, as well as aid and solidarity mechanisms from the european union.
the vote results reflect genuine agreement in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, although there may be dissent and different positions, deriving from the positions of each state.
we understand that life has traditionally been a leading programme for funding innovative projects and innovative management models, especially in the field of the environment.
but that is also because the universal nature of environmental policy has been emphasized, which has been one of the successes of european policy in this field.
europe knows that environmental policy cannot be applied to a single region.
it requires a global reflection, and this has always been the view of the european union, and the 6th environment action programme has always considered it so.
the policy on climate change, desertification, water, waste, quality of life, welfare and pollution is universal, and we are trying to make it not only applicable in europe, but to make europe a model for the whole world.
however, let us remember that life was created to do this and that is what the text of the financial statement i am about to read says, which states that the life + credit is intended to finance financial contributions for actions to implement, update and develop community environmental legislation and policy, including the integration of the environment into other policies.
that is precisely why we are here: to work with the commission and to tell the states that sustainability policy is a process and that europe is not just a market.
if we are to create a knowledge society, sustainable economic development and greater social cohesion, we need to set up a strong foundation from the outset, and this can only be achieved through effective education.
the frontex system and the solidarity of the european partners in general have not been up to the task, but perhaps unilateral acts of regularisation have not created the best climate for obtaining the partners' collaboration.
mr president, we cannot seriously deal with terrorism only after 11 september 2001, with the energy crisis only after the russian-ukrainian crisis, and with illegal immigration only after the deaths at the fences of ceuta and melilla.
he is an advocate for social and environmental rights.
this has led to the creation of a european group of green presidents, that is, concerned with environmental problems, an original and creative initiative.
the commission recognises the need for the european union to maintain its leading role in not only international but also domestic efforts to fight climate change.
i agree that it is important to assist developing countries to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change and to help them in deploying sustainable technologies.
a few days ago, the commission proposed the new global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund.
this new initiative aims to boost climate-friendly technologies in africa in particular.
we expect about eur 350 million to be available for investments in developing countries and in africa for the period 2008 to 2012. the european union can only be credible in its leadership role when it achieves meaningful reductions in domestic emissions and complies with international commitments under the kyoto protocol.
the second national allocation plans of the european union emissions trading scheme will be a decisive test.
if member states put more allowances into the european market than companies are likely to emit collectively, the european union emissions trading scheme would fail.
mr davies said that collectively the first 17 plans notified propose a total allocation that exceeds 2005 emissions of these member states by about 15%, which is really a lot.
i am determined that we shall not permit the european union emissions trading scheme to fail and the commission will assess all the national allocation plans in a consistent and fair manner.
all the member states will have to contribute to the success of the emissions trading scheme in the period 2008 to 2012. i agree that we should try very hard with our public relations and the possibilities for influencing our governments, but also your involvement and action is important in this crucial phase of the emissions trading scheme.
in the next few days, a communication on the emissions trading scheme should be adopted by the commission, launching a review of this important scheme.
this will address its scope, how to make it simpler and more predictable, strengthening compliance and linking up with emissions trading schemes elsewhere.
as regards tackling transport emissions, which contribute to about 22% of the emissions in the european union, this year the commission will put forward a legislative proposal to include the aviation sector in european union emissions trading.
also this year, the commission will review the possibilities for further reductions of carbon dioxide emissions from cars after 2008-2009, with a view to meeting the community target of 120g of carbon dioxide per kilometre by 2012. that will, of course, require legislation.
the commission is also exploring options for a legal framework in the european union to allow the safe capture and underground storage of carbon dioxide from industrial installations, provided that that is considered appropriate.
the commission also intends to promote adaptation measures, helping the regional and national decision-makers to deal with increasingly evident impacts of climate change.
on the basis of a green paper on adaptation to climate change, to be launched at a conference in brussels on 1 december, the commission will begin a public debate on the need to adapt to unavoidable climate change.
most importantly, we will have to further frame the international debate after 2012. next january, the commission is planning to release its energy package.
a core part of the package will be the strategic european union energy review.
this will put forward an alternative energy scenario for the european union that is in line with the european union’s long-term climate change objective.
close to the adaptation of the energy package, the commission will also be releasing a green paper on the european union’s views on further action to tackle climate change.
this green paper will respond to the european council’s request to develop a european union strategy to limit global warming to 2°c, compared to pre-industrial levels.
one of our main objectives will be to bring on board the united states and other fast-developing countries like china and india in a common but differentiated way, as provided for by the united nations convention on climate change.
the commission will ensure that the energy package and the green paper put forward a climate and energy strategy for the european union that is coherent, coordinated and sustainable.
i believe that since last year in montreal there is a certain new momentum in the international debate on climate change.
water transport is safe, low-polluting, energy-efficient and offers large spare capacities.
as regards fleet modernisation, inland navigation needs to improve its logistical efficiency and environmental and safety performance.
moreover, i am also pleased at this moment with the efforts of my city, zaragoza, which will host expo 2008, and which, in this context, wants - and has proposed this within the objective in favour of water and sustainable development - to recover the navigable function of the ebro.
we speak of sustainable development when we refer to the potential of waterways to help reduce the impact of co2 emissions by up to 75% compared to road and also - and this is why it is so important - when we promote this waterway network at european level and support new ways of making this sector more competitive and efficient.
for example, amendment no 27, which is virtually identical to amendment no 86 tabled by my group, suggests a number of aspects which should be developed: amongst other things, activities at sea, a number of industrial activities, many of them new, such as desalination itself - i am not against it, but it has not yet been studied - and methodologies for studying the impact on the marine environment, which are virtually 'in tatters', that is to say, unfinished.
and finally, mr president, commissioner, i would like to convey a thought to the council from here: it is high time that in a europe where there is free movement of services, goods, capital and people, where twelve member states have the same monetary policy, where we all share an international trade policy, we should stop pretending that the decisions we take on energy are exclusively our own.
in my region, galicia, as well as in other regions mentioned, such as the autonomous region of the azores or northern portugal - i would like to thank mr freitas for making this debate possible through his question - farms have a decisive social, environmental and territorial rebalancing role.
it's about working together to prevent more mercury from being released into the environment.
mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to human health and the environment.
we would be able to achieve that 30 tonnes of mercury per year would no longer be able to enter the environment.
the directive not only protects human health and the environment but will also serve to preserve and strengthen the internal market, since harmonised rules on the placing on the market of measuring instruments containing mercury apply throughout the community.
a transitional period of two years will allow these companies to adapt their production to the new regime without creating a disproportionate risk to the environment and health.
we must prevent considerable amounts of mercury from entering the waste stream.
in this way we will contribute to ensuring a higher level of protection of the environment and human health and to the preservation of the internal market, in accordance with article 95 of the treaty.
mercury pollution, which began as a diffuse local problem, is now recognized as a serious, chronic, global problem.
dumping or improper disposal causes mercury residues to seep into wastewater and disperse into the environment.
i also ask the commission to take measures to raise public awareness by organising information campaigns on the health risks of exposure to mercury and the environmental problems that this substance can cause, as i fear that citizens are still not sufficiently informed about its toxicity.
finally, i hope that parliament will endorse the agreement with the council at first reading, so that it can be implemented as soon as possible and thus reduce industrial demand for mercury and speed up its replacement by other materials which are not harmful to human health and the environment.
it is not possible, of course, to adopt a complete european union regulation on mortgages, but some progress can be made, for example, in the field of information, maximum authorized rates, repayment of mortgages at a given time, so that when a citizen moves from one country of the european union to another, he does not find himself in a completely different legal environment from the one in which he is accustomed to living.
it is clear that russia is now exerting great pressure on your country - i can tell you that at dinner with president putin there was a lot of talk about your country - and now you have a great opportunity, by addressing the european parliament, to explain what the situation is so that the representatives of the peoples of europe can know directly, through you, the difficult circumstances your country is going through and the problems involved in energy dependence on your great neighbour.
we have certainly established a political and legal environment in which that can happen.
in this scenario it is the people and future generations born into a climate of fear and hate that lose.
how are we going to articulate this issue with environmental policy and human rights policy?
fisheries management will be affected - and is already being affected - by a whole range of measures, programmes and policies that respond to the very diverse commitments made by the european union in the framework of the law of the sea, the johannesburg summit, sustainable development, environmental strategies, climate change and biodiversity, among others.
just as the protection of biodiversity is and should be a core value in today's societies, so too the protection of linguistic diversity must be understood as a core element of progress, the promotion of peace and development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the statement by commissioner mandelson and, as rapporteur for the report on the generalized system of preferences, i also stress the importance of the gsp plus as an incentive to engage the most vulnerable developing countries in sustainable development and good governance.
the regulations we have adopted will give european society a system of freedom and provision of services, while at the same time guaranteeing the high level of working, social and even environmental conditions we have at present.
stability in the middle east also requires that the european parliament continue its efforts to reach a peaceful solution to the iranian nuclear programme, which will confirm that its goals will remain solely peaceful and under the supervision of the international agency for atomic energy.
in the field of energy alone, qatar has signed contracts with a number of countries of the european union, amongst them italy, belgium, britain and spain, to provide those countries with their needs in terms of natural gas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the ombudsman's efforts, such as those concerning the environment, are particularly appreciated when there is a great deal of public concern about it.
we receive many complaints from citizens about major works, major infrastructures, which are carried out in the european union without the mandatory environmental impact study.
i think the european commission must act much more quickly to prevent this damage from having a truly devastating impact on the environment.
the crux of the matter in our relations with iran is that, irrespective of positive or negative developments on the nuclear issue, which is extremely important, without a systematic improvement of the human rights situation in iran, our relations with that country cannot develop properly, no matter how much potential our relationship might otherwise have in terms of economic and energy cooperation.
today europe faces as great an array of challenges as ever, including globalisation, technological change, migration, energy security and terrorism.
we know about the potential for pollution to trigger calamitous climate change.
but as long as our climate and our criminals do not stop at the borders between our countries, we must work together to ensure all appropriate action at european level.
it is not just some theoretical pro-european issue, it is to make the functioning of europe correct for the future so that we can continue with our environmental and economic progress and our common foreign and security policy.
europe has achieved all these things and the chance of our harmonising, getting stronger environmental laws, more cooperation and helping less developed countries – all these are european policies that never would have happened otherwise.
i would say to my good colleague, mrs sinnott, that the reason we have progressive disabilities legislation, the reason that we are putting huge resources into disability, the reason we have an environmental protection agency, the reason we have far greater health policy, the reason we are able to support these things, is not because there is any difference between the 1937 constitution – which treasures all the people and children of ireland equally – and what we have today.
the enlargement process is also a positive outcome for the european union, because of its political and economic consequences, because it promotes and consolidates freedom and extends prosperity in its immediate environment through what has been called the transformative power of the union.
in this respect, the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy covers ten major priority themes which represent a significant degree of continuity with the sixth framework programme, although it does propose improvements in the approaches which - we are convinced of this - will facilitate better access to the programmes for research groups.
the final text adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy and which we are bringing to this house for final approval is a very important one.
this framework programme has also meant a 'back to the basics' and so with the establishment of the european research council we will have in this framework programme strong public support for basic research with medium and long-term social and environmental objectives, led by renowned scientists who will defend their autonomy.
as greens, we wonder whether we will have, in the face of the energy crisis, the climate science we need.
it is very positive that there is financial support for renewable energy and energy efficiency and that it has been increased by 250%, but at the same time we regret that it is still only one third of what nuclear research as a whole receives.
mr president, european research has gradually given more space to issues relating to the environment and man and culture, thus giving importance to their scenarios and to their preservation and survival.
i should like to begin by saying that i voted in favour of this because we have really improved the overall safety aspects, the environmental aspects, the aspects relating to the health of people and also the interests of european companies.
the following is the joint debate on- recommendation for second reading, committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals and chemical preparations (reach), establishing the european chemicals agency, amending directive 1999/45/ec of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council regulation (eec) no 793/93 and commission regulation (ec) no 1488/94 and council directive 76/769/eec and commission directives 91/155/eec, 93/67/eec, 93/105/eec and 2000/21/ec on the common position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals and chemical preparations (reach) (proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council) (com (2003) 0253 - c4-0256/2006), as adapted to the council regulation (ec) no 67/548/ec) on the classification and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, as regards the classification and labelling of chemicals, adopted by council regulation (ec) no 67/5253/2006/ec (proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council) (direc directive 2003/06/54/535/ec), as amending regulation (direc) and council regulation (directives 2003/56/ec) on the classification and the preparations of chemicals and chemical substances and substances and substances (eec), as regards the second reading of the european parliament and the european union, and the european union (eec)
on behalf of the pse group.
in order to protect the environment as a whole and human health in particular, it is necessary to prevent and reduce the harmful concentration of harmful pollutants in groundwater, and i think we are on the right track with the drafting of this directive.
i am therefore particularly pleased with the agreement we have reached with the council, which will make it possible to implement a whole series of rules to prevent pollution and protect groundwater.
finally, i would ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this report and i hope that the member states will implement these measures as soon as possible, in order to preserve the environment and protect human health, and to move towards that sustainable europe which we all want.
but this directive, and not because of the rapporteur, who has been very brave about it - and thank you for that, ruth hieronymi - gives the national regulatory authorities the ability to decide what is true and what is not true, what emissions can be given or what emissions cannot be given or, as has happened in catalonia, which is one of the european regions with the lowest democratic quality in the whole of the european union, which operators can issue or which cannot issue.
and i am not opposed to the delegation taking advantage of the trip to meet the authorities of the country and thus to feel the changing political climate.
moreover, under the fund’s new priority axis 4 on the sustainable development of fisheries areas, support can be granted for the diversification of activities and the promotion of alternative employment for fishermen through a large variety of measures.
the new priority axis 4 on sustainable development of fisheries areas, supported under the fund, will be implemented through a bottom-up approach.
in addition to the topics of discussion i have just mentioned, the conclusions of the european council will therefore include innovation policy, energy policy and climate change as follow-up to the gulf summit.
european energy consumption will have increased slightly during your term.
the rapporteur has once again demonstrated his great experience in this area and his capacity for consensus by securing a large majority in the committee on industry, research and energy.
i understand that some members would prefer not to deal with the subject, to avoid opening a polemical debate, but we must be courageous and, for once, objectively and without prejudice admit the significant contribution of this energy source to security of supply and to the fight against climate change.
natural gas is already expensive enough, and its price is unstable; given that hydroelectric resources are running at full capacity, nuclear energy is, by elimination, the only viable alternative to coal.
the consequence is that we must increase our energy independence.
there are no kilowatts left and right, there are sources that emit greenhouse gases and sources that are free of these emissions.
renewable energy and nuclear energy should be seen as complementary and not as opposing.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and point out that the energy problem, which is at the heart of our concerns today, will certainly be at the heart of our concerns in the coming years, and probably to a greater extent.
having said that, i simply want to say that consumers must of course be at the centre of energy policy, since this is a public service to which all people should have access, not just those who are interested in the market.
i think we have to ask ourselves why the market is not moving forward and why there is not enough confidence, and the answer lies in the need for a common energy policy, and not just in the external sphere.
i would like to stress the need to support research and development into new, cleaner energy technologies which can meet our needs, and what this means in terms of investment in r & d. it is true that the seventh framework programme provides for investments of eur 2 350 million, that the seventh euratom framework programme also funds research into fusion energy, nuclear fission and radiation protection, and that the competitiveness and innovation programme also provides for resources to finance energy innovation.
but our investment in r & d in this area is still considerably lower than that of japan and the united states, and most of it is devoted to research into conventional energy sources, which shows a clear imbalance between investment in r & d and the obligations generated by a sustainable and ambitious energy policy, such as the one we are discussing today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the community's energy policy.
everyone who knew her admired her energy, her courage to the end, mr president.
a woman of conviction and a committed european, ms loyola de palacio left her mark on the european commission, of which she was vice-president from 1999 to 2004. in particular, it has worked to advance the europe of transport and the europe of energy.
i think it is good that we should take a few minutes to solemnly sign in public, in the house, two important pieces of european legislation that have just been adopted by parliament and the council: reach, the regulation regulating the chemical industry and its environmental impact, and the seventh framework programme for research.
i would also like to thank those members of the european parliament who have been most closely associated with these two new pieces of legislation and whom i will also be asking to act as witnesses at the signing: the chairman of the environment committee, mr florenz; the reach rapporteur, mr sacconi; the vice-chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, mr ransdorf; and the three rapporteurs on the seventh framework programme for research, mr buzek, mr busquin and mrs laperrouze.
the aim of reach is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment and to increase the competitiveness of the eu chemicals industry by setting high safety standards and promoting product development.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment, and the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
the sustainability and competitiveness of the union's economic growth also depends on our ability to agree on common energy policy objectives and to establish broad global cooperation to manage climate change.
the european council conclusions on energy and climate are an indication of better coherence in the way they are paving the way for the union to take these issues to the forefront of the german spring summit.
we need a common and strong agreement that contains the most important foundation of our cooperation, the values, and provides a sustainable basis for trade and energy cooperation.
we should have a constructive, positive engagement with russia, trying to make it a win-win situation, namely on the energy issue.
let us not now be divided from russia because of energy.
there have been some attempts to divide us but at the lahti summit we were able to speak with one voice on energy.