common and clear standards of quality, environment and safety would be more necessary to improve competition in the internal market than detailed prescriptions.
to sum up, russia has consistently used a government-owned monopolistic energy company to put political pressure on countries – market practices and existing contracts be damned!
the experiences of the new member states, and of ukraine and moldova when they adopted a pro-eu stance, clearly show the dangers of lacking a robust eu policy on energy security.
we don't want the environmental degradation that accompanies the brothel to continue to threaten our cities.
mr president, i would like to stress that the mechtild rothe report deserves high praise, particularly in the context of the binding obligations imposed on member states in the field of renewable energy.
as we know, the energy market in the european union is significantly distorted.
this is due, inter alia, to unequal subsidies, with fossil fuels (coal, lignite, oil shale) and nuclear energy receiving substantially higher subsidies than renewable energy.
this has also been a major obstacle to the development of a single energy policy in the european union.
now that external insecurity has also become apparent, it is to be hoped that the lessons learned by russia at the turn of the year will provide a further impetus for the development of renewable energy in the european union, and that improved cooperation between member states will indeed lead us to a common energy policy for the european union.
social inclusion across all policies and ending the waste of human resources would provide a direct boost to the development that we are seeking to achieve with the lisbon strategy.
if the old member states could replicate this success, it would be good for europe's competitiveness and sustainability.
the gas crisis between ukraine and russia, which erupted earlier this year, showed how vulnerable the european energy system is.
and more importantly, how energy can be used as a powerful policy tool.
the ukraine-russia gas crisis showed that if a country has a good leader like lukashenko, it can get cheap energy from russia.
this policy was, by the way, carried over to the whole european energy system.
as long as there is no common energy policy, as long as each member state or head of government is trying to get the best deal for itself with one big non-european state company, we will remain dependent and victims of side deals.
europe needs a common energy policy just as we have a common trade policy, where the european union is extremely and extremely effective in negotiating.
however, the current situation, where each country manages its own energy supply and concludes bilateral agreements, is no different from this situation.
the same is true for energy.
with fracking energy policy, we rely on the political leverage of a state monopoly in one country.
the common energy policy is a european decision.
lennart meri spent all his energy fighting against the small european mind.
they too need targeted support: without them and their knowledge, it may prove impossible to restore sustainable fisheries.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
that is why i am disturbed by the article that appeared in the german magazine der spiegel on july 8. although the article acknowledged the violence and criminality of the prostitution environment, it made claims to which i expect a clear reaction from commissioner frattin, the german minister of justice, zypries, and europol.
the 'protection of groundwater against pollution' is a good complement to the water framework directive.
six months ago, i presented to the european parliament a report by the estonian nature conservation fund on sulphate pollution of groundwater and waste associated with the extraction of fuel oil, which is important for estonia's energy sector.
in essence, this is a waste of a natural resource, i.e.
the subsidisation of energy production at the expense of the natural and mining community.
the electricity price does not reflect this water, which distorts the energy market by making it difficult, inter alia, to deploy renewable energy.
pollution is therefore also a direct economic misuse in this case.
my question is, as my colleagues have already said, does the commission have the power to control this waste?
the second topic i would like to touch on is energy.
i hope that the council will support parliament's proposal to spend €150 million on energy research and development under fp7 in addition to the proposal by the presidency.
of course, this is also a small amount in view of the challenges facing the energy sector.
however, most of this small amount goes to nuclear energy and not to new sustainable technologies.
a disproportionate share is also attributed to energy technologies based on fossil fuels.
so, mr president, it is not impossible that we will soon have to talk about a common european union policy on migration, in order to avoid the same difficult situation as we are in today with the european union's common energy policy.
the political climate in albania at present is a worrying and serious obstacle to progress in reform.
we welcome the recommendations of the committee on international trade on improving albania’s business environment, which is vital to enable albania to make full use of the agreement.
secondly, genuine economic development requires a stable and transparent legal environment.
i can support amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 18 and 21. however, i should mention that the commission has already begun a debate, as requested in amendment 4, with the regional advisory councils concerning the implementation of maximum sustainable yield management and has also already arranged for the impact assessment foreseen in amendment 5. the final text should reflect the fact that these measures requested by parliament have already taken place.
i fully support provisions to revise long-term targets at periodic intervals of about five years in order to take account of changes in the environment and the ecosystems.
such waste is incomprehensible to native fishermen.
the report also stresses the importance of the european union's role in the development of the baltic sea, which is a major sea of the baltic sea, and the importance of the baltic sea as a source of sustainable fisheries.
we need to be aware that systematic intimidation, harassment and murder of independent journalists, as well as the lack of any results from any investigations, have created a climate of impunity in which killers seem not to fear the law.
this is a serious revision of the helsinki agreement of 1975. mr. chairman, we know that the essence of the russian-georgian conflict is not in georgian provocations, but in the new awakening of greater russia, which is based on the one hand on the incitement of russian nationalism, on the other on the use of energy resources to restore the empire.
we need russian energy.
however, we greens have put forward a strategic plan which, when i read it now, i have noticed that despite drastic political changes, the environmental protection of the baltic sea itself has not improved significantly.
the article claims that a proposal is now being made to the baltic sea states for the necessary ecological studies.
first political, then economic, and then ecological conditions, so to speak, decoratively.
i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the baltic sea had all the conditions for organising an ecological survey in good time, the environmental protection organisation helcom and eighty years of scientific cooperation.
and we think it would be a good idea to work with the baltic sea environment and, if possible, to include a line in the european union budget for this unique sea in the world.
firstly, regarding the baltic sea, investment decisions must of course be taken by investors, but the commission’s viewpoint has been that it is very important that proper environmental impact assessments are made for the implementation of the project, and we have not favoured one route over the other.
as demonstrated by the very important opening of the st petersburg south-west waste water treatment plant last year, with its tangible beneficial effects in water quality in the gulf of finland, cooperation and cofinancing with the russian federation is possible and it pays dividends both to their citizens and to ours.
the forthcoming large northern dimension environmental partnership projects in the kaliningrad oblast combine with tacis projects in the water sector in this same oblast to confirm these premises.
russia is now rich enough to buy up the energy infrastructure of all of europe.
the european union's money has been able to significantly reduce the risk of nuclear and conventional pollution from russia.
this would improve the quality of life of european citizens and give a boost to smes in creating new and high environmental standards jobs, making our industry more innovative and competitive.
the instrument also covers a wide range of themes and includes activities previously financed by the environmental budget.
the eluned morgan report on the commission's green paper on an energy strategy has been developed by the european parliament from a thin draft report into a full-blown report by means of amendments.
it covers most of the energy issues affecting the european union.
point 66 with its hope that russia will sign the energy charter is probably outdated by today, given mr. yastrzemski's statement on tuesday.
i say this to emphasize the need for a single energy policy for the european union, which is missing from the report and is of paramount importance.