(applause)
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is little time for this debate and for the fight against climate change.
scientists are extremely concerned about the speed of climate change, they are concerned about the kind of planet their children, our children, will live on.
they say that humanity has at most ten years to turn emissions down fast or, as chris davies said, maybe it's already too late.
we all know that the united states is a major player in the climate change disaster.
the next climate conference will be chaired by finland, whose line in montreal was completely unclear.
we need a programme for the eu's own emissions reductions for the years 2020-2050. this is also what companies need.
to invest wisely, they need to be able to estimate the value of their investments and the cost of their emissions in the years ahead.
finally, by ensuring sustainable economic and regulatory conditions for air traffic to asia, we also revitalise the european aviation industry and ensure the possibility of offering efficient flight connections and routes, including in the more sparsely populated and geographically distant areas of europe, such as the northern part of finland.
it is estimated that by 2030 more than 80 percent of mankind's energy will be derived from fossil fuels.
with the eu planning to meet all its energy needs in the coming decades with gas, there is no alternative to imports from russia.
our group supports good relations of cooperation and energy cooperation with russia.
the european union has put pressure on russia to abandon its internal dual pricing of energy, including gas.
i therefore do not believe that the double pricing of energy can last very long in russian foreign trade.
the energy situation in the european union is constantly on the verge of crisis.
we need fast and versatile energy sources, versatile supply and transmission networks and there is no time to waste: bedrooms can be cooled at any moment.
we need an energy crisis programme from the commission as a matter of urgency.
what solidarity mechanisms could be envisaged and will the forthcoming green paper address energy crisis issues?
this is a major piece of environmental legislation, which concerns access to environmental information and the right of citizens to participate in decision-making.
these pillars concern the transparency of environmental information and the right of the community to participate.
i have always stressed the rights of citizens in environmental matters.
in its own vote, the european parliament's committee on the environment clearly changed the focus of the provisions, taking the agreement to a new, in my view undesirable level.
it is one thing to control and regulate how, for example, a public authority applies and interprets the provisions of environmental legislation, but it is another to control and regulate how a democratically elected legislator acts.
the position of the parliament's committee on the environment now means that any ngo operating within the eu can circumvent this act by requesting an internal audit, to which the community institution must respond by a formal decision.
don't get me wrong, we need environmental organizations, and the world would be a much worse place if ngos hadn't rightly raised many issues.
i myself have stressed the quality and comparability of environmental data, for example.
but i really only hope the same for environmental organizations: if they themselves complied with what they demand of us, if they were more transparent in their activities and financing, if they gave less misleading and incorrect information, these restrictions and criteria would not be necessary.
a good example of this is the letter received this week from the major environmental organisations, which gives a false impression of the possibility of an appeal to the courts which may now be open to them.
e letter omits to mention that now environmental organisations are not seeking to be on the same level as companies, which are required by the decision in question to be concerned with them 'directly and individually', i.e.
as parties to the case, but that environmental organisations would now be able to choose the subject matter in which they are interested throughout the union without any criteria of relevance.
sustainable development is a metric that should be reflected in all eu policies and decision-making.
sustainable development cannot be separated from industrial, competition or economic policies, let alone energy, transport or agricultural policies.
it was therefore a great disappointment that this sustainable development strategy was not revised at the same time as the eu competitiveness strategy.
environmental costs must be included in the price.
to achieve real results, verifiable indicators for sustainable development policy must be found.
quantitative targets - when set correctly - indicate where we have succeeded and where we need to improve in order to achieve an environment that no longer causes any harm to human health or to the resilience of nature.
when we set ourselves sufficiently high targets, they also encourage the development of new environmental technologies, for example, which in turn stimulate european growth and thus lead to real sustainable development.
i'm just going to read what i had to say so that the environmental organizations don't get the wrong idea of what i said: an example of this is the letter received this week from the major environmental organisations, which gives a misleading picture of the possible right of appeal which is now open to them.
the letter omits to mention that environmental organisations are now far from seeking to be on the same level as undertakings, which are required by the decision in question to be concerned by them 'directly and individually', that is to say as parties to the case, but that environmental organisations would now be able to choose, throughout the union, without any criteria of relevance, the subject matter in which they are interested.
mr president, i was one of the drafters of the climate resolution and one of the participants in the montreal meeting.
only a quarter of emissions are covered by reduction commitments, and so i think it is a little intellectually dishonest to talk about achievements.
if three quarters of the world's greenhouse gas producers are allowed to continue to increase their emissions, it is time to recognize that this recipe has failed and to take other kinds of climate action.
all measures to facilitate the entrepreneurial climate are supported by our group.
this is sometimes slow, but it creates a strong foundation for sustainable solutions and a functioning society.
the aid must stimulate sustainable growth and competitiveness and reduce regional disparities.
particular attention will be paid to environmental technologies and their potential for job creation.
the last few months have shown in concrete terms the importance of developing alternative energy sources and energy saving.
it is absolutely essential to reduce europe's dependence on imported fossil fuels and energy.
the european union must support new technologies and innovations that exploit alternative energy sources for heating and cooling.
these innovations can substantially expand our energy options.
i am pleased that the commission has just adopted the work programme to start implementing the intelligent energy europe programme.
they specifically promote heating and cooling with renewable energy sources and heat pumps.
with devices like this that can be easily installed in any building, we can achieve significant energy savings.
the importance of forestry will only increase as new energy production opportunities are sought, among other things.
however, the eu does not have a common forestry policy, although many policy areas, such as rural development and environmental policy, have a strong impact on this area.
the report supports the commission's proposal for an eu action plan for sustainable forest management.
the future of a sustainable industry using renewable resources must be better guaranteed.
wood can be used to replace plastics, saving non-renewable raw materials.
this is not only required for overall rural development, but also for improving the eu's energy self-sufficiency and other challenges.
the outcome of these discussions will make a substantial contribution to the water and sanitation section of the 16th session of the united nations commission on sustainable development in 2008. the 4th world water forum is not expected to produce any new policy initiatives or decisions.
the commission considers that a regular supply of drinking water is, as the rapporteur has said, a basic humanitarian need and that policies for sustainable development must address the problem of equitable and sustainable management of water resources in the interests of society as a whole.
when we talk about the eu's capacity to respond to disasters, it is worth remembering that weather-related disasters have increased in recent decades and climate change is predicted to increase them further.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions is therefore the most important way to reduce future floods and storms.
the wwf recently published a study showing that climate change is increasing storms in europe most strongly around the north sea, the british isles, the netherlands and france.
so, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that climate protection is a key factor in reducing future weather disasters.
digital technology also makes life so easy for many that we begin to look for refreshment outside this environment.
if citizens do not have access to information that is essential to their lives, progress will not be sustainable.
mr president, since the problem of global warming cannot be solved by the eu alone, my oral amendment seeks to enlarge the audience by adding the words ‘and the international community’ after ‘eu and its member states’.
mr president, the european commission is committed to implementing and further strengthening international obligations related to biodiversity.
the millennium ecosystem assessment has underlined the need to take drastic steps if we want to avoid irreparable loss of the ecosystem services on which human wellbeing depends.
if we do not pay attention to the links between economic development and biodiversity, we will also put at risk the achievement of the millennium development goals.
the millennium ecosystem assessment concludes that ‘an unprecedented effort is needed to achieve the 2010 target of a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss at all levels’.
that global 2010 biodiversity target was adopted by the convention on biological diversity and endorsed at the johannesburg world summit on sustainable development.
those are major international environmental events and commissioner dimas will attend the ministerial segment of the eighth conference of the parties from 26 to 30 march.
the environment council of last wednesday adopted conclusions setting out the eu priorities for the eighth conference of the parties.
the conclusions are: first, strengthening the implementation of the convention on biological diversity and monitoring progress towards achieving the 2010 biodiversity target; secondly, making progress in implementing the programme of work on protected areas of the convention on biological diversity, and in particular on its objective to establish a global network of comprehensive, ecologically representative and effectively managed national and regional protected area systems.
for the ppe-de group mr president, it is now 13 years since the un convention on biological diversity was signed, but the world's biodiversity is still being depleted.
we are exploiting ecosystems in ways that are not sustainable.
land use that converts natural environment into economic use is the main factor contributing to the loss of biodiversity worldwide.
each year, some two percent of the earth's original natural environments are transformed into farmland, forests, and the built environment.
as the effects of habitat and species degradation and of hereditary diversity are usually delayed, the nature of biodiversity loss as part of global change has not been adequately addressed.
ecosystems can be severely disrupted as a result of their deterioration and the free services they provide to people, such as the production of clean water and maintenance of the hydrological cycle, carbon sequestration, pollination of food crops and nutrient recycling.
ecosystem services can be partially restored, for example by deforesting eroded areas, but plantation forests do not replace the diversity of natural forests.
nature provides a model of what a truly organic production economy is and what to aim for with ecological product design.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, there is broad agreement on the need to strengthen international environmental governance.
climate change is the biggest of the global environmental problems, but unfortunately it is not the only one.
we therefore need real results from the forthcoming un conference of the parties on biodiversity in the eu.
in order to ensure the maximum effectiveness of the convention, it is essential that the convention is effectively implemented in the different policy areas and that the convention is compatible and coordinated with other international environmental agreements.
however, the main problem for effective implementation is the lack of indicators on biodiversity.
the european union must be a leader in strengthening the international dimension of sustainable development.
they predict that by 2030, about 80 percent of the world's energy will be produced from fossil fuels.
such forecasts are credible in the light of history, even if we make every effort to save energy, to improve energy efficiency, to promote alternative forms of energy, to use biofuels, and even if we build more nuclear power as old reactors are phased out.
the new green paper says that the eu's dependence on energy imports will rise to 71% by 2030. if the oil companies' predictions of primarily using fossil fuels to meet our energy needs come true, competition for their use will intensify.
the eu wants to meet all the growth in energy demand with gas.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a continuing energy crisis.
we have a good solution to this: energy cooperation within the union.
they don't allow competition in their own countries, but they buy other countries' energy companies with this lazy money.
if there is no solidarity in the european union, we can forget about the energy solutions that are being discussed here.
the precondition for a common energy policy is common objectives to which our own leaders commit themselves, and not to which they give way, as is happening now.
i propose that finland holds an energy summit where the heads of state agree on the way forward.
finland could do a good service by hosting the meeting, especially as it relates to the russian energy issue, to which many colleagues have referred here.
the russian energy dialogue, which has made rather poor progress and is rather secret because the council is not very involved in it, could be immediately linked to this summit.
i think, however, that we must ensure that the aid we give is in line with the principles of sustainable development.
economic, social and environmental aspects must always be taken into account in eu development cooperation.
if the eu's emissions are reduced by around 100 million tonnes of co2 in the first ets, the market price for emission allowances at current prices is 2.5 billion per year.
as a conservative estimate, the price of electricity in the european wholesale electricity market will increase by an average of eur 10 per megawatt hour as a result of emissions trading.
with an eu electricity consumption of around 3000 terawatt hours per year, the cost of emissions trading in the wholesale electricity market is around eur 30 billion per year.
if emissions trading were replaced by an electricity tax and the earned income was allocated to real investments in reducing emissions, about 30 billion a year could be used as an investment grant to build a huge amount of capacity that would eliminate the need for fossil fuels.
nuclear power is an example of a zero-emission form of energy that is not supported and certainly not needed in the electricity market, unlike many other forms of energy.
(applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i am very much in favour of developing bioenergy to the maximum, but when we talk about promoting non-food agriculture through energy self-sufficiency, it must be said that biofuels are not cost-effective.
i think it is important to speak about things in the right way, so that we do not have the directorate-general for agriculture running the eu's energy policy without us noticing.
or when they use more fossil energy to make them than they can produce.
this is particularly true of nordic field-based energy.
as a result, increasing the use of biofuels will raise both the eu's energy costs and food prices.
the producer country - in our case finland - the consumer must not be penalized for the fact that our land is being used for energy production instead of fishing and transport, and that spent nuclear fuel is being buried forever in our soil.
the resolution on the security of energy supply adopted last month, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, states that the creation of energy networks is the first priority.
the ten energy networks have a major role to play in the internal energy market and security of supply in the union, and security of supply is our biggest problem here.
our recent energy crises have shown an excessive dependence on imported energy.
so we need an energy policy where one neighbour can help another, but in a fair way.
we must think about how europe can overcome the crisis-sensitive situation on the energy market.
this is why we must create a completely new energy ethic which takes account of this situation.
i therefore ask the commission to draw up a modernised, new ethical austerity package to show people, industry and society the way to austerity, because it is the most sustainable way.
that, while creating energy-saving technology and using renewable energy sources.
the regulation and the directive under discussion are both important steps in our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
fluorinated greenhouse gases are one example of how difficult it is to fix environmental problems.
the switch to the use of hfcs in cooling systems, aerosols and other applications has significantly reduced the use of ozone-depleting hfcs.
the montreal protocol sought to eliminate cfcs, since these gases are harmful to stratospheric ozone.
that was good, but the ozone depletors were replaced by powerful greenhouse gases.
they have a global warming potential of 100 or even more than 1,000 times that of carbon dioxide, and the time taken for the gases to decompose in the atmosphere can be very long.
fluorinated gases account for at least 5% of the greenhouse effect.
the threat of climate change therefore requires a limitation of the use of hydrofluorocarbons.
the text of the regulation now adopted by the conciliation committee encourages the continuous development of alternative technologies and the uptake of existing technologies, while allowing for sustainable approaches to achieve the objective.
i have always wondered why the environment is always automatically considered more environmentally friendly and the internal market is labelled as an industrial interest.
the best environmental interest would be to combine a harmonised internal market with ambitious objectives.
using existing powers under eu competition policy, rather than starting from scratch with a whole new regulatory framework, would seem to be a better way to police the market environment, which currently suffers from differences in national interpretations of key provisions of the ucits directive.
deputy rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection mr president, mr szent-ivànyi is the rapporteur for the report on the preaccession instrument, but he is not here because he has been sent by a commissioner to monitor the elections in fiji from afar.
this energy community treaty, signed in october, integrates nine countries of south-eastern europe into our energy market.
the establishment of an energy community is a sensible and justified project in many ways.
the energy sector in the balkans is underdeveloped, still suffering from the consequences of a decade-old war, with frequent outages and no safe source of energy, the environment suffering from old power stations and their emissions, and a lack of investment and competition.
the energy community treaty aims to develop energy infrastructure through loans from financial institutions.
the fact is that a functioning and reliable energy system also attracts investors, which improves the economic situation of the region, improves general stability and reduces migration.
it is also important for the union to improve energy security - we are talking about this here - and to reduce dependence on individual suppliers.
the balkans are also an important transit route for energy from the caspian region to the middle east.
although energy in south-east europe is currently underpriced, a large proportion of the population cannot afford to buy electricity.
when the energy sector is market-based, it is capitalised, so prices will inevitably rise.
the internal market must apply standards in areas such as working conditions and social equality, especially in the hugely profitable energy sector.
we want more cohesion, more science and research, more concern for the environment, more sociality.
it is indeed justified to be strict on certain important principles and therefore i am in favour of recovering funds already paid from the regions and the member states if necessary, if the programmes do not take sufficient account of important key principles relating to european union policy, such as sustainable development, equality, non-discrimination and the implementation of environmental legislation.
an important part of this is the channelling of aid towards, inter alia, sustainable renewable energy sources.
i have repeatedly expressed concern about the eu's growing energy dependence.
the eu's dependence on russian energy resources in particular seems to be increasing.
investing in socially sustainable competitiveness will enable us to create a europe where innovation flourishes sustainably.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, our group is of course in favour of improving energy efficiency.
the union lacks an energy efficiency policy for transport.
i took note of the commissioner's promise to present a document on energy efficiency in transport in the near future.
improving the energy efficiency of buildings requires new investments and new technologies, but there is no alternative.
the eu's siberia is energy prices, which are rising in terms of energy efficiency.
precious energy teaches.
it teaches you to conserve energy.
the eu-wide directive, which is now being revised, will make it possible to better address emissions that threaten the quality of groundwater.
this is linked to the fact that different member states have different sources of emissions due to historical reasons and natural conditions.
this will allow the very sources of emissions that are essential in each region to be tackled with rigor.
energy-crazed humanity cannot afford to ignore this possibility.
in this respect, research money is not wasted, even if the fusion process itself could never be successfully tamed to produce more energy than is needed to start the process.
at the same time, research and the use of renewable energy sources must be increased, and on this point i agree with the green group.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to draw attention to health and energy.
the committee on energy, research and technology wants to increase the share of health in the research budget.
eu research funding must focus on disease prevention and the impact of the environment on health, which is also of no interest to the pharmaceutical industry but is central to our health and well-being.
the envi committee also wants to increase the share of energy.
energy financing must be consistent with our climate commitments, otherwise we risk falling behind the united states and japan in the development of new technologies.
energy research funding should be directed primarily towards technologies that deliver rapid emission reductions, i.e.
energy efficiency and renewable energy.
it is absurd that we should continue the decades-old trend of allocating more money to nuclear research through euratom than to all other energy research in the eu.
the envi committee wants to focus on euratom only in the field of nuclear safety and research into nuclear waste management.
energy dependence has been known for a long time.
the increase in energy demand for the eu as a whole will be met in future by additional gas imports.
in this context, it is hoped that the problems of energy transit, which have become apparent in the context of events in ukraine and russia, have been brought to the fore.
mr president, the most pressing issue in eu-russia relations at the moment is energy.
energy is the political and economic climate for the eu and russia.
energy is also a potential source of conflict between the european union and russia.
russia wants long-term supply contracts to allow it to invest decisively in equipment to ensure its own energy supply.
but in this situation of a constant energy shortage, long-term agreements are hardly the biggest problem, but could be a common goal for both parties.
the contracts guarantee the position of both the buyer and the seller and create energy stability.
at the same time, the union could contribute to increasing investment in the russian energy sector, which would thereby affect operational security.
the aim is, of course, to open up the energy markets of both the union and russia to competition at some stage.
the finnish presidency could take action because we have a long-standing energy cooperation with russia, very long-term agreements, and there have been no concerns about operational security, although russia has undergone a couple of revolutions in the last 15 years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that sustainable development is the foundation of our future.
it is a misconception that economic development and environmental protection are at odds with each other.
ambitious environmental protection promotes economic development, and this applies to both governments and industries.
industry has called for an analysis of the economic impact of environmental policy.
similarly, when analyses show that air pollution is worth cleaning up, the auto industry lobbies against it.
we need ambitious targets, for example, in the field of energy saving.
the least and cheapest thing we could do is to decide to end subsidies that are harmful to the environment.
fossil energy subsidies in the eu are over eur 24 billion a year, four times the amount of subsidies for renewable energy.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, on behalf of the social democrats, i can say that i agree with the commissioner that we must finally put sustainable development policy from words to deeds.
sustainable development must be made a real policy agenda for the eu.
sustainable development must be a genuine and measurable principle of trans-parency for all the political objectives of the european union.
it is therefore unacceptable that at present projects which damage the environment are supported at a rate which is many times higher than that of projects which improve the environment.
eu-wide environmental taxes have also been discussed in several contexts.
the european council also decided to introduce a pan-european energy tax.
the sixth environmental action programme, adopted by the council and parliament by means of a codecision procedure, provides for the introduction of a pan-european environmental tax.
a genuine environmental policy requires that economic instruments of legislation and other instruments go hand in hand.
the environment is also good for the economy, and its development is what makes the wheels of the economy turn.
air transport emissions are growing faster than any other source of carbon dioxide emissions, and other emissions and impacts from aviation more than double its global warming impact.
since 1990, eu aviation greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 85%, or more than 4% per year, threatening to wipe out a quarter of the emission reductions achieved in other sectors during the prohibition period.
air transport has by far the highest emissions per kilometre travelled.
on the other hand, rail transport is taxed in many ways and is also affected by carbon trading.
the next global climate agreement must include aviation, but it is already justified to extend emissions trading to all flights to and from the european union, preferably through a separate emissions trading scheme, in order to make the emissions reduction drive effective.
we can offset the emissions of our own flights voluntarily.
there are organisations that calculate emissions per passenger in flight and through which the equivalent amount of investment in emission reduction in developing countries can be financed.
mr president, when we were drafting the emissions trading directive, it was hard to imagine any other report having such a profound impact on european conditions and about which the decision-makers knew so little.
at that time, europe was entering uncharted territory, as even theoretical research into the effects of emissions trading was only a matter of name.
the effects are now well known, particularly those which are detrimental to european competitiveness and, paradoxically, those which are also harmful to the global environment.
now that we are widening the frontline in the fight against climate change, we cannot afford to make the same mistakes again.
against this background, the demand in the report that the eu should show leadership in combating climate change by taking action in good time on its own territory is too much to ask for and we are currently paying a very high price for this attitude.
it is clear that aviation emissions must be addressed, but the success of the project itself depends on the means chosen to achieve the objective.
we know from the current emissions trading that we need a common global approach to make the most of it for the environment.
on my own initiative, we have tabled an amendment on behalf of my group, calling for a clear impact assessment, the definition of emission limits, clarification of who is responsible in practice for the required reduction measures and, in particular, how to ensure that non-eu airlines are also involved in emissions trading.
other alternatives to emissions trading itself must also be explored.
the priority measures include improving technology and the smoothness of air traffic itself, as the majority of emissions are caused by obsolete equipment and congestion at airports.
it was therefore regrettable that, in the case of the emissions trading directive, we received such an incomplete proposal on such a crucial subject.
the commission is now preparing its own proposal on aviation emissions trading, and that is where the revenge is due.
this is a major piece of environmental legislation concerning access to environmental information and the right of citizens to participate in decision-making.
i have been the rapporteur for the aarhus convention throughout the process, always stressing the rights of citizens in environmental matters.
these pillars were the transparency of environmental information and the right of public participation.
one area of concern in the conciliation was the accessibility of environmental information.
the exceptions to the disclosure of environmental information were one example of this.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i would like to thank the environmental organisations for their participation and contribution during the legislative process in aarhus.
while we may not always have agreed on the extent of the rights they are entitled to, for example, i appreciate and respect their desire to be genuinely involved in making better environmental legislation in the eu.
however, it is not just money that will turn top-level research into innovation and jobs, but also the creation of an innovative climate, as the commissioner has also said.
without the innovation climate, without the money, without the strategy, failure is all that's needed.
it is important that employees enjoy and share, and this helps us to ensure an efficient and sustainable workforce.
this principle is enshrined in the iaea convention on the safety of spent fuel and radioactive waste management.
i think they should be asked to explain why the member states should be responsible for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel themselves, without allowing radioactive waste or spent fuel to be taken outside the union for reprocessing or disposal.
finland has argued that the union should invest in innovation and competitiveness, openness, energy, the northern dimension and external relations, as well as in finding a solution to the fate of the constitution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
energy is a foreign policy weapon, but it's also a weapon in the fight for global resources, for energy.
the energy issue has become a sensitive point of contention between the european union and russia, which can also lead to conflict.
we want security of supply, secure energy supply, and russia wants a secure customer.
the finnish presidency is expected to take concrete action on energy policy, environmental policy and, in particular, on cooperation in the baltic sea region in all its aspects.
you've been very slow to address climate change.
the priorities of the finnish presidency do not even mention climate change, even though it is not only the future of europe but also the future of all humanity.
otherwise, there will be no global agreement on how to continue climate protection after kyoto, that is after 2012, which is already very close.
at the same time, i hope that the conditions for sustainable and competitive agriculture will be safeguarded throughout europe, including in the outermost regions, in line with the decisions of the european council.
russia and energy are areas in which finland has particular expertise.
the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
as the questioner points out, the 11th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the first session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol were the starting point for two new forward-looking processes: the establishment of an ad hoc working group on the additional obligations of the parties to the kyoto protocol listed in annex 1 and the dialogue on long-term cooperative action to address climate change by enhancing the implementation of the convention.
the first workshop under the convention's dialogue provided an opportunity for all parties to present their ideas on how to promote development goals in a sustainable manner by addressing adaptation actions and exploiting all the opportunities offered by technology and the market.
in the meantime, the parties listed in annex 1 are invited to submit by early september information on any topics they may wish to present at the second session, such as emission developments, mitigation opportunities for policies and technologies, and the costs and benefits of reducing emissions.
these topics include the scientific basis for the definition of additional obligations, the scenarios and risks associated with those obligations, the costs and impacts of adaptation, the evolution of emissions and socioeconomic factors, the potential of policies, measures and technologies to mitigate climate change, the costs and benefits of mitigation, sector-specific analyses and impacts on competitiveness, the experience gained and lessons learned from the implementation of the kyoto protocol, the duration of the obligation periods, the sector-specific approach, the structuring of future obligations and the additional frameworks for technology development, deployment and transfer.
i hope that during this process there will be active contacts with the european parliament, because the parliament has shown a very active interest in these climate issues, which is very welcome, given the importance of the issue for the future.
i would like to continue on this subject, because the council is now represented by a presidency which has a lot of practical experience of its own in the key instrument chosen by the eu to prepare the kyoto protocol, emissions trading, negative experiences: distortion of competition, disruption of the electricity market and the fact that a party that has done its job well and taken early environmental action may end up being a payer.
therefore, where the commission continues to promote emissions trading as a success story, finland would have the opportunity to bring it back to the surface.
will finland do so and what improvements would you be prepared to put forward to correct the problems of emissions trading?
the matter was raised at the initiative of the greens in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety after the commission had exceeded its powers by granting a derogation to the banned flame retardant deca-bde.
their name is 'today', so we, the decision-makers, must strive to ensure that they can access the internet for factual and relevant information and avoid anything that is against sustainable values and the protection of human life.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the question is whether or not we want to protect the planet's climate and the future of humanity effectively.
when you burn one kilogram of gasoline or diesel, you emit more than three kilograms of carbon dioxide.
co2 emissions from transport have increased by almost a third since 1990. this cancels out a large part of the emission reductions in other sectors.
from 2003 to 2004 alone, emissions in europe increased by the equivalent of three million people driving around the world.
in all countries, the abolition of the registration tax is not an improvement for the environment.
studies in the netherlands show that the most effective way to guide consumers towards low-emission choices is a carbon-dioxide-scale registration tax, such as the one in force in denmark, among others.
in order to ensure that tax changes actually reduce emissions, it is important to oblige member states to ensure that when they make national tax changes, they are environmentally friendly.
if the registration tax is replaced by an annual consumption tax, it should be more heavily dependent on co2 emissions than proportionally.
emissions other than co2 shall also be taken into account.
it is important that we have a road tax based on the pollution of cars.
in this way we can reduce carbon dioxide emissions and acid precipitation.
in fact, pollution from cars is one of the main sources of pollution in the baltic sea.
in order to renew the european car fleet and to make cars more environmentally friendly, it is appropriate to reduce the taxation of car acquisition, to abolish the registration tax and to compensate by tightening it moderately and in a regional balance, taking into account the taxation of car use, including on the basis of fuel consumption and emissions.
moreover, recent studies show that the co2 emissions of diesel engines are lower than those of petrol cars.
the environmental impact of road transport must be considered as part of the wider transport policy of the union, but there has not been enough real discussion about the compatibility of car taxation, fuel taxation and road infrastructure charges.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the credibility of the eu's climate action.
we all know that in order to protect the planet in the coming years, the major developing countries must agree to limit their emissions.
so far, the eu's actions have encouraged those americans who want their country to join the international climate action, but if we betray our kyoto commitment, it will help the climate action opponents in the us and elsewhere.
the commission must now be determined to require eu member states to comply with the key criteria for emissions trading.
unfortunately, one of the first member states where the government has bowed too much to the demands of the polluting company already in the first emissions trading period is finland.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the main emphasis shall be on the elimination and identification of social and environmental factors.
our decisions on transport, trade and industrial policy, the environment, town and country planning and social policy always have implications for public health.
air pollution is one of the most important environmental problems in europe and people are exposed to it.
i'm the presenter of the sixth environmental action programme last term.
it is now clear that this first legislative thematic strategy to achieve the objectives of the sixth environmental programme will not achieve the objectives set out in the sixth environmental programme.
this will also water down the targeting we have achieved in the sixth environmental action programme.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, air pollution kills more than 300 000 europeans prematurely every year.
environmental health experts have criticised the commission's proposal as shockingly weak, but will the european parliament now give rise to even greater consternation?
the majority of the committee on the environment is in fact proposing to weaken existing legislation.
the committee would postpone the entry into force for more than ten years and double the number of days on which pollution limits may be exceeded from 30 to 55 days a year.
on the contrary, more and more heart patients are admitted to hospitals when daily pollution levels are exceeded.
the reason given for this scandalous proposal by the committee on the environment was that the member states could not do better.
i urge you, ladies and gentlemen, not to accept the proposal of the committee on the environment, or of mr weisgerber and others, to postpone the entry into force of the legislation, but to defend the right of citizens to breathe clean air.
that is a waste and i support the idea put forward in the ‘oneseat.eu’ campaign of having only one seat.
when the allocation is reviewed, will the commission take action to address these extra profits that emissions trading brings to producers?
the gap between urban and rural life is widening and the environmental burden is increasing.
i also make a serious request to the council to put the situation of the underprivileged, environmental problems and disaster preparedness in india on the agenda of the eu-india summit in helsinki.
the energy dialogue launched in the spring must also be continued, as the key determinant of india's future economic growth is its ability to meet the rapidly growing demand for energy.
please also say that the liberalisation of the electricity market in the nordic countries has led to an increase in the price of electricity and that the state should take responsibility for energy security instead of marketing it.
the city is also ideally suited to the gulf, which has long been a centre of excellence in environmental technology, since energy cannot be discussed without energy efficiency.
the most effective way to increase energy self-sufficiency rapidly is to improve energy efficiency and savings.
in our energy dialogue with russia, it is also worth noting that it is not politically wise to increase further the eu's energy dependence on russia.
in the face of the climate challenge, all possible means are needed all low-emission energy must be promoted.
it is high time to dismantle the contradiction between renewable energy and zero-emission nuclear power.
that contrast is not real, it's more between the ears than in practical energy.
it is also unreasonable in the light of the objectives of the european energy policy.
if finland does not tackle the problem now, it will create an energy shortage not only for bulgaria but also for its neighbouring countries, whose electricity needs bulgaria has been supplying for the last five years.
the shutdown can only be partially offset, and it's happening at lignite power plants, the dirtiest source of energy there is.
why should bulgaria increase its greenhouse gas emissions when it has a proven safe alternative?
europe is becoming increasingly dependent on energy imports.
i propose that, where we have the problem of operational reliability and russia has the problem of good customers, the problem of long-term contracts to invest in energy infrastructure, a big deal is made and both these things are done at the same time.
the energy agreement will be ratified in the same package.
in this way we will create energy security for both parties and, of course, for ourselves in particular.
ladies and gentlemen, russia's energy resources and our desire to secure oil and gas supplies must not cloud our view of the deterioration of democracy and civil rights in russia.
with regard to external energy, you know what you need to do: you need to thank mr putin for the fact that it is actually on the agenda, because at about this time last year he was squeezing the ukrainian pipelines a little bit and that is the reason we are actually talking about it in lahti.
one: a green light for the eit; two: some patent legislation, or at least a promise to have it; and three: a common energy policy.
mr breyer and mr corbey said that new research suggests that up to half of all new breast cancers may be explained by environmental factors, some of which are industrial chemicals to which we are exposed all the time.
the paper argued that it was a high risk to invite russian president putin to the meeting, as the eu is fragmented and divided on both energy and russia policy.
of course, we must admit that we still have a long way to go before things can become concrete and before russia ratifies the energy charter, which opens up the market and follows the common rules of the game.
we cannot sacrifice human rights on the altar of energy policy.
the door has now been opened to deeper cooperation on energy and other issues.
they wanted to talk to him about energy.
in this context, russia is ready for an energy dialogue and even a legally binding document.
harmonising the eu electricity market means raising the price of electricity in the country represented by prime minister vanhansen, and in few countries is the prime minister happy about such a common energy policy.
the eu had a joint message for the russian president on energy policy, democracy and human rights.
it was good that the energy debate included the future.
although it seems that the short term priority is energy availability, it was good that attention was also paid to the future.
as regards energy policy, our challenge and our answer to the problems of the future lies in innovation, in how we use renewable energy sources and develop technologies that save energy considerably.
we must achieve a long-term reduction of co2 emissions of between 60% and 80%, and this can only happen if we as europeans have a real common will to invest in renewable energy sources and energy savings.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the message from science is becoming more serious: the more recent the research, the more serious the message it sends about the acceleration of climate change.
this is also what british foreign secretary margaret beckett said when she said that we are approaching climate chaos.
at the same time, economic analyses show that even very ambitious emission reductions are very cost-effective, and in particular, they will be much cheaper than tackling climate change.
citizens are becoming more aware of this, as reflected, for example, in the recent statement by the european trade union confederation (etuc) that europe must reduce its emissions by 75% by mid-century and the eu should not wait for others.
this is reflected in the huge popularity of the al gore movie, the extensive articles in the major newspapers on climate change and also on its potential solutions, the latest issue of scientific american last month on energy without carbon.
in the united states too, those who want to take responsibility for climate protection look to europe and are encouraged by what europe is doing.
nor can we be content to wait and waste time in international negotiations.
we also have to implement our own kyoto commitments, and the emissions trading system is very important in that respect.
it is not enough to trade emissions, emissions trading must also reduce emissions in the way that the kyoto protocol requires.
no more climate-hostile power plants should be built.
mr president, as we prepare for the next conference on climate change in nairobi, what is most urgently needed is honesty.
the world needs efficient climate policies that deliver and not unfounded complacency.
we all know and agree that we need to move from one-sided eu climate politics to a global front, as only truly global action will lead to efficient emission reductions.
therefore, for the sake of the climate and to really win the battle, let us be honest when analysing the problems arising from the kyoto protocol, as well as from the eu ets preparing for kyoto.
in the global markets, this means giving the competitive advantage to the polluter, as the cost of environmental investments and emission rights cannot be included in the prices.
the temptation is for the international capital of the global markets to be invested where there are neither emission restrictions nor environmental norms.
a pollution shift is not a pollution cut.
interestingly, the last conference on climate change in montreal was publicly described as a victory.
with the kyoto protocol, only a quarter of global emissions are controlled.
i would like to reiterate that this is the only way to find a peaceful and sustainable solution for real autonomy for the tibetan nation.
one good measure that has already been taken is the financing of the st. petersburg waste water treatment plant.
saving the baltic sea is no longer just an environmental issue.
the commission's proposal for a marine environment directive and a marine environment strategy is a way of seeking an eu-wide integrated approach to saving marine ecosystems.
the common feature of all marine areas is that they should all be able to achieve good ecological status within a specified period of time.
hopefully, it'll be before 2021. the social democrats support the rapporteur's attempt to define what we mean by good ecological status of the marine environment.
in order to achieve the defined good status, sufficiently stringent conservation objectives for pollution prevention and measures to support the recovery and return of the marine environment to sustainable levels must be established.
two weeks ago, nicholas stern, a former world bank official, published a shocking report for the british government on the effects of climate change.
we in the alde group have drawn up a number of amendments in the committee on the environment.
in the vulnerable baltic sea, mainly cargo vessels, but also passenger ships, continue to dump latrine waste directly into the sea.
the eu must support russia in its efforts to clean up all the waste water from st petersburg.
oil and gas drilling and pipelines should not be given priority over the environmental risks they pose in the name of the economy.
the aim shall be to protect and restore the state of europe's seas and to ensure that human activities are carried out in a sustainable manner.
in practice, europe has a common electricity grid but no common energy policy to secure supply.
the foundation for other energy crises was laid by the privatization of energy production facilities.
the energy strategy report to be published in january will also examine the possibility of setting up a joint regulatory authority.
the market is confused by the eu's emissions trading scheme, which was introduced in 2008 and whose future is unknown as of 2013. connecting the eu's electricity networks will not solve all the problems.
in environmental policy, this approach is essential to focus on the most urgent issues.
the european commission has promised to present a revised report on the sixth environmental programme this year.
the commission announces that it intends to review the environmental technologies action programme next year.
there is also a need for areas other than energy technology development.
new energy efficiency technologies such as hydrogen, fusion, led lighting, solar and wind power are important.
europe's energy consumption is increasing, even though it should be decreasing.
the high cost of energy is hitting the poorest of the poor.
i think the commission should create a social programme for energy access for the poorest citizens.
the fourth commandment is environmental protection, for instance the idea of protected areas.
the fifth is a rather topical issue, and that is an energy market and an energy policy for this area.
we must restore the ecological balance of the baltic sea.
mr president, mr minister, i will only speak about energy, because we cannot talk about everything, and i will put forward half a dozen points.
we need to ensure that we have access to energy, but russia needs to ensure that it has a stable supply of energy.
russia also needs them, because it will have to invest in a fraction of its energy production.
the energy debate needs more political guidance from us.
energy is a very political issue.
nevertheless, we are here to list many things, but we do not even go to russia to look into energy matters.
in conclusion, i would like to say that energy is now a source of conflict with russia.
we must therefore act as politicians in the energy sector and find a form of cooperation with russia that satisfies both sides.
the shutdown can only be partially offset, and it's happening at lignite power plants, the dirtiest source of energy there is.
once again, green action is accelerating climate change, not slowing it down.
over the course of history, tens of thousands of chemicals have been introduced into the market, with unknown effects on the environment and human health.
the european parliament and its rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, have worked hard to improve the commission's original proposal and the council's common position on the replacement of hazardous chemicals of concern by chemicals of benefit to the environment and human health.
the second is our backstop proposal, which contains the improvements already approved by the council, but not the defects which were made last night at the request of the conservatives, against the opinion of the committee on the environment.
ladies and gentlemen, those of you who voted for strict substitution and want to remove the most dangerous chemicals from our environment, if you are consistent, will support this proposal and remove the mist from the mountain top.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the union should have a wider ideological debate and commit to a sustainable long-term strategy.
this ensures a more open dialogue for negotiations in a less pressing environment.
energy dependence and consumption are increasing and self-sufficiency is decreasing.
mr president, it is true that transport emissions are one of the most rapidly growing emissions in our society at the moment, and this forces us to consider how we can properly implement the principles of sustainable development, how we can find solutions in transport that are more environmentally friendly, so that transport can take better account of the environmental requirements imposed on it by land, sea and air.
taxation is also one of the ways of steering more sustainable development, but even the member states have not yet decided to do so.
we need support now in this respect: tax relief and clear guidelines that the environment and the principles of sustainable development are a real priority for us and not just a topic for celebrations.
we have not only the problem of energy imports, which creates uncertainty, but also our own activities here within the union.
our reserve capacity for energy is 4.8 per cent and is decreasing each year, compared with 15 to 20 per cent in the past.
of course, we must also take a more aggressive approach to energy consumption.
the second thing is that energy has become not only a political but also a social issue.
the poorer the consumer, the more difficult the situation is for him in times of high energy prices, and this consumer must be the focus, as the morgan report states.
i ask the commission what it intends to do to improve social energy security.
if you were to put pluses and minuses on the presidency, i think the pluses would far exceed the minuses – lebanon, the services directive, reach, research, enlargement, climate change and schengen.
finland has been praised for creating a good working environment, and this has led to such difficult compromises as the services directive and the chemicals regulation.