the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
we will only save the multilateral trading system by ensuring its coherence with the other organizations of the united nations system that work for human development, by balancing free trade with social development goals, by ensuring that trade rules take into account non-trade dimensions, the environment, public health and social rights.
this shows that the policy of lowest prices does not work and is not sustainable in the long term.
little or no regard for social and environmental rules, for peasant agriculture, for the peasantry in the south, which is very much threatened by these agreements, for the peasants in the north, or for the interests of small and mediumsized farms.
it was expected to promote sustainable development, the harmonization of trade rules with social and environmental rules.
its sole purpose is to break the statutes, the social protections, to drive down wages to enrich a minority at the expense of human security and the environment.
in a world context marked by rising oil prices and the need to combat greenhouse gases, the production of alcohol in the sugar sector represents an important asset in terms of the development of alternative energy sources.
the committee on agriculture and rural development therefore proposes that these developments be anticipated by means of a voluntary public policy, focusing on both the agricultural and industrial sectors: agricultural by measures improving access to aid for energy crops, industrial by adapting the restructuring scheme to allow the creation of bioethanol distilleries.
the financial incentives for the development of energy crops are also not being met.
indeed, what will be the share of national compensation beyond the insufficient community compensation and, above all, what about its sustainability beyond 2013?
while the european union has committed itself to reducing its sugar production in order to comply with the rules of world trade, the french overseas departments follow a diametrically opposite logic: that of continuing to develop their production to ensure the maintenance and creation of sustainable jobs and to preserve the fragile balance of both agricultural and industrial holdings.
today, cane is a valuable commodity, fully usable in the production of sugar but also energy, through the use of bagasse or even natural fertilizer.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jean-claude fruteau, on his efforts and i would ask you, commissioner, to keep the provisions contained in the council's compromise on sugar from the french overseas departments unchanged in order to ensure the sustainability of this sector.
this is the evidence shared by all the members of this house, over and above the traditional political divisions, which has led the commission to integrate the need for sustainable development into the union's priorities.
under pressure from public opinion, concerned about the continuing deterioration of our environment, the european union has done much to alert the international community to environmental issues.
so it is time to act, because there is an urgency, an urgency for a policy of voluntarism to change the climate.
the eu has also introduced significant legislation to reduce industrial emissions and to improve the energy and environmental performance of its automobile fleet, but the considerable increase in road traffic has undermined its efforts.
this illustrates one of the paradoxes facing the european union with the free movement of goods on the one hand and the negative impact of this free movement on the environmental objectives of the european union on the other.
secondly, to integrate the environmental cost of transport into product prices or to tax transport according to its environmental impact.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
is it necessary to recall the still too high levels of chemical pollution?
urgency of a voluntary policy for the maintenance of biodiversity.
sustainable development is part of the answer, because it represents a model of production and consumption that can and should be extended to all countries.
the encouragement of widespread dumping is incompatible with the requirements of sustainable development.
it also requires the implementation of sustainable development at all international, national and local levels.
each legislative proposal would benefit from being assessed from the perspective of sustainable development.
similarly, if we want to advance sustainable development, we must no longer accept that the legal basis for environmental or health bills is the sacrosanct free movement of goods.
the commission bears a responsibility: environmental protection is not a sufficient priority.
although it has just published five of the seven thematic strategies, these do not make up for the weakness of the proposal for the revision of the sustainable development strategy communicated at the end of 2005. i will confess my concern about the proposals which the commission is presenting to us.
when i understand, for example, from reading the thematic strategy on waste that we could go back to national approaches where the states themselves would set the modalities for managing their waste, then i think we are taking a step backwards.
of course you're an honest broker, and everyone should organize their energy however they want.
we are not going to give priority to the old energy, which is called nuclear energy, or to research in the fields of (a) renewable energy and (b) hydrogen produced from solar energy.
a new dynamic has been created in these countries, which are now waiting for the union to support them in the process of democratization, stabilisation and sustainable development they have embarked upon.
it provides a comprehensive review of all the priorities set by our institution for this policy: human rights, democracy, immigration, the environment and trade liberalisation.
its implementation should allow measuring the progress made by all states and european institutions in improving the regulatory, financial and political environment in which small businesses operate.
it was the epp-ed group that introduced the amendments and measures which should make reach sustainable and applicable to small businesses.
we have been talking about smes as a kind of abstraction, an administrative entity, for which things must be simplified, money must be given, the environment must be promoted, and so on.
in the current difficult economic environment, it is often small businesses and artisans who create wealth and are the main source of jobs, jobs that are not relocated and that help maintain social cohesion by irrigating the entire territory of the union.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
iran has a right to energy security.
i am not a green for nuclear energy, but we cannot have states that swear by nuclear energy alone and at the same time say to the iranians: you cannot do that!
the oral question which is the subject of this evening's debate and the proposals which will be put to the vote in parliament tomorrow are based on the fact that the only management measures applicable to fisheries in the mediterranean to date date date back to 1994. but these are no longer adapted to the resource situation or to the decisions taken on other european union shores to implement a common fisheries policy which allows for the sustainable development of this sector of our economy and the preservation of the resources which the union must be able to continue to draw from the exploitation of its seas in order to meet the need to ensure, in the long term, the food sufficiency of its citizens.
is it really necessary to launch a whole series of eurobarometer surveys to find out that the anxieties of our citizens are relocations, social insecurity, insecurity, the health crisis, environmental upheavals?
we know who is responsible for this tragic situation: unreasonable free trade agreements, as was the case in november 2005 with the united states, south africa, etc., that is to say with countries in which the climatic, environmental, social and fiscal conditions are different.
finally, i would like to say that we are naturally in favour of state aid being considered in the context of the lisbon and gothenburg processes: the knowledge economy, but also aid for the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mr rothe on his excellent own-initiative report, which clearly calls on the european commission to draw up a legislative proposal before july 2006 on increasing the share of renewable energy in heating and cooling.
heat and cold networks and biomass, especially wood, are important outlets for the wood sector, are fully integrated into a sustainable european forestry strategy and can support european efforts for sustainable development, in particular the target of 12% renewable energy in 2010 on total energy consumed.
however, there is currently no legislation governing the production of heat and cold from renewable sources and this gap needs to be filled after the publication of the european commission's biomass action plan on 7 december.
member states can therefore now put an end to this unequal tax treatment between heating energy sales and renewable energy heating and cooling network subscriptions and the supply of natural gas and electricity.
finally, i would like to emphasize that many activities, even emerging ones, would not need subsidies or aid if they were to benefit from a favourable fiscal, regulatory and international environment, an environment which brussels' policies are largely contributing to the deterioration of.
one of the most important challenges for european countries is their energy policy and their ability to use renewable energy to reduce their dependence on oil and gas supplies and the many fluctuations in oil and gas prices.
renewable energy is expected to play a major role in heating and cooling, which currently accounts for almost 70% of energy expenditure in europe.
we will therefore support measures which could encourage the use of these renewable energies: user information, removal of administrative barriers, aid for start-ups, encouragement of research, etc.
but we will be particularly vigilant about respect for the sovereignty of the states in the matter of energy supply, as well as the tax aspects of any proposals that might be made.
we have not yet fully assessed the impact of the liberalisation of electricity and gas markets on national energy balances.
and there is no question of giving the commission, by means of tax proposals, additional powers in the field of energy policy, which the treaties do not confer on it but which it has already shown itself to be adept at appropriating by means of roundabout routes.
in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, our rapporteur, sahra wagenknecht, wanted to propose the rejection of this directive on the grounds that article 16 proposed the principle of country of origin, which is incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, jeopardises services of general interest and risks leading to fiscal, social and environmental dumping which jeopardises the very foundations of the european social model.
but we demand that a balance be struck between this freedom for the economic development of europe and respect for labour law, environmental protection and consumer protection.
the original bolkestein proposal for a directive was deeply rejected because it sought to base the completion of the internal market on the weakening of social rights, environmental standards and consumer protection which had reached a higher level in some of the member states than in others.
you said, mr barroso, that the commission was ready to take up amendments which would help to move towards the internal market in services, but you did not say what you would do with amendments which would guarantee social rights, environmental standards, consumer rights.
there are still too many areas of confusion in this text, particularly as regards the possibilities of control in the areas of labour law, environmental law and consumer law.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i had suggested that the commission should be invited to propose to the member states mechanisms, including taxation-based mechanisms, to encourage forest owners to plant native species for the maintenance of biodiversity and to control fire risk.
the spirit of this proposal is echoed in the report which recommends measures to prevent fires and combat desertification, reforestation with indigenous species, the promotion of diversity, the sustainable management of natural forests and the promotion of environmental services, in particular for the protection of water systems and the fight against erosion.
it defines the lines of action for a global policy, but also for a specific policy for each region, taking into account the economic, social and environmental potential of the forestry sector.
a forestry strategy for the european union must enable the implementation of sustainable forest management for several reasons.
firstly, its contribution to climate change mitigation and a sustainable energy supply, with particular reference to biomass.
in practice, this reduction should encourage the development of this renewable energy production mode and new opportunities for the wood sector.
in this respect, the action plan will strengthen the overall visibility of forestry and increase the complementarity of different community actions in support of sustainable forest management.
(applause)
the forest action plan will aim to consolidate the basic principles of the forestry strategy, namely the sustainable management of forests, their increasing multifunctional role, emphasising their economic, social, cultural, recreational and ecological dimensions and respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
forests are also part of the biodiversity.
a reasonable cooperation between hunters and foresters is essential to respect biodiversity, in order to strive towards a good forestry-forestry balance.
the european union needs an alternative project that includes upward harmonization of social, environmental and consumer protection rules and excludes public services that require a framework directive protecting the environment.
the various projects currently on the table (taxation of financial transactions, co2 emissions, arms sales, etc.)
at present, the issue of forests and wood in the process of creating wealth and social progress, while respecting our environment, is not sufficiently taken into account in european public policies.
similarly, in the context of the lisbon strategy, it is important that the union focuses more on supporting research programmes related to the recovery of wood, particularly in the construction and energy sectors.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
this situation is hopeless and the nature of the environment in which they work often leads them to fall into drug addiction.
this would be the best guarantee of the sustainability of economic activities in these regions.
in addition, the proposed legal basis refers to the protection of the environment and public health, while civil protection actions should also cover the protection of people and property, including cultural heritage.
preventive measures should be extended to civil protection in third countries and to marine pollution.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
but this also requires a more binding legislative framework within the eu, the inclusion of social and environmental clauses in international trade.
i would also remind you that, in accordance with pharmaceutical regulations, manufacturers must prove that their products do not harm the environment.
before i turn to the european arrest warrant, i would like to make a brief reminder that behind this concept of an area of justice, which was born very gradually after the geneva appeal in 1996, there was the ambition to give the citizen a common sense of justice in an environment where the authorities are doing everything possible to prevent this freedom from being abused or their rights violated.
it calls for more jobs, even full employment, and better quality jobs; stresses the importance of research, education, innovation and a strong industrial fabric throughout the union; it even sets out the objective of, quote, "stopping the loss of biodiversity by 2010".
it seems to herald such an era of social, economic and ecological progress that it is hard to understand, at first sight, that the commission considers, and i quote, 'that much remains to be done to convince citizens that the reforms will contribute to the advent of greater and shared prosperity and to involve them in it'.
the transeuropean networks are also in the process of being completed, renewable energies and biotechnologies are still a poor relative of our investment and research efforts.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, will the next spring summit be able to meet the challenges of our time and the environmental challenges, the challenges of energy policy, the expectations of our young people, the duty to acknowledge our elders, who are increasing in number, and this requires appropriate infrastructure?
finally, a europe which has no taboos and therefore dares to speak of nuclear energy and energy independence.
at the same time, i wonder if the time has not come to consider whether the union should not consider a major european water policy in order to guarantee in a sustainable and renewable way the supply of sufficient quality and quantity to the inhabitants of the union wherever they are in the territory of the european union.
we are now at the point where the dysfunctions caused by the liberalisation of the internal energy market, which is the aim of brussels and is based on the one and only sacrosanct competition, are leading members of parliament to call for a common, or even a single, energy policy, whereas this area of intervention does not exist in the treaties, and for good reason: the opposition of governments, aware of the strategic importance of this sector and of their divergent interests.
what we need is a merger strategy that works, but is also based on a well-regulated industrial policy strategy, which is also based on business strategies that respect environmental objectives and social standards.
on the occasion of the now traditional european competition day, austria and finland, the two council presidencies of 2006, will hold an event in vienna on 19 june 2006 entitled 'competition law and its environment: interfaces and new trends'.
we will be tough against member states which fail to implement correctly the provisions of the ec sectoral legislation introducing competition into markets such as energy, telecoms, financial services or banking.
i take careful note of the concerns expressed here about specific cases in the energy sector.
i think this seems particularly inappropriate in the energy sector, where an eu-wide policy on liberalisation is currently being implemented – it is not ready yet but it is currently being implemented – and where different players should be treated in a similar way across member states.
the greatest uncertainty is the sustainability of its financing after 2008. it is therefore urgent to remedy the difficulties mentioned by ensuring the financial sustainability of the anna lindh foundation, by ensuring the visibility of the actions carried out by the foundation and their priorities, by relaxing the european rules for financing projects, by creating a european television medium in the arabic language, by ensuring an equal place for the three working languages of this structure in the communication of the foundation.
second priority: to achieve the goal of better health for all europeans, the impact of environmental and social living conditions on health must be taken into account.
regarding environment and health – i am addressing mrs ries – we already have measures under the current programme and they will continue under a new programme especially as regards environmental determinants on health.
mr president, the preservation of biodiversity is an exciting subject.
my group, the greens/efa, is very pleased with the resolution which was voted by a very, very large majority in the european parliament and is also very pleased that parliament is sending a delegation to the eighth conference on biodiversity, three years after kuala lumpur, to advocate the preservation of biodiversity.
food security depends on three factors: water, soil and plant genetic diversity, and only 12 plant varieties, including wheat, rice, maize and potatoes, provide the bulk of 80% of the world's energy needs.
in addition, to limit the invasiveness of biotechnologically produced varieties to our ecosystems, biological diversity must be protected by protocols that require researchers to carry out their manipulations in a confined environment.
in conclusion, it should be remembered that the fight against the erosion of biodiversity involves a conservation approach.
i would therefore also ask you to support the global environment facility.
we know very well that, in the case of natura 2000, if the european union does not allocate money to this network, biodiversity will not be preserved.
similarly, if we do not give money to the global environment facility, the preservation of nature will once again be a matter of fine words in the house.
the stability and growth pact, the revised social agenda and the sustainable development strategy have been given a new direction.
i am thinking, for example, of a european energy policy and the european globalisation adjustment fund.
i believe we are on the right track: the annual progress report on the lisbon strategy, the green paper on energy policy, biofuels, the european institute of technology, the roadmap on gender equality are all major initiatives already on the agenda.
the main target must continue to be sustainable growth to provide more and better jobs in europe.
energy will continue to attract our attention.
we will pay particular attention to the promotion of sustainable management and the protection of natural resources.
the commission will also carry through its simplification agenda, covering various fields from environment to industry, the modernisation of labour law, the promotion of consumer rights or key internal market sectors.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the needs are enormous: training of young people, research, transport, health programmes, environment - it would be too long to list them all.
in the dialogue that is now beginning between us, you can count on the dynamism of our assembly to formulate its political priorities for 2007. i am also pleased to see that the european commission is finally realising that economic cohesion, solidarity and environmental protection are compatible with our objectives of growth and employment.
you propose four priority areas: knowledge, enterprises, and in particular smes, employment and ageing, and energy.
as far as smes are concerned, we need to create a competitive regulatory environment and help our companies to better position themselves on global markets.
energy is the fundamental issue.
the year 2007 should be decisive for the orientations of energy policy.
we must be objective, ignore all ideology, break the taboo on nuclear energy, and remember that our energy dependence must never exceed 50%.
as we have seen recently, energy is becoming a real weapon of political pressure.
the transport of energy must therefore be improved and solidarity between member states must be given special consideration.
however, compatibility with wto rules must not override our international commitments to promote sustainable development and eradicate poverty.
firstly, we must take account of the environmental question in a global way: bioenergy, biomass and biodegradable materials.
secondly, we must diversify our energy sources, knowing that we must anticipate the end of fossil fuels in 40-50 years and that we must fight with all our strength and with all our means against the greenhouse effect.
secondly, the new policy on bioenergy can only make sense if it is fully in line with the logic and political will to turn the agricultural model into a model of sustainable development.
i think that we must also start thinking about new models which will make it possible to diversify agricultural production while at the same time guaranteeing a good ecological balance throughout our territories.
mr president, mr parish's excellent report on the promotion of non-food crops does indeed raise the problem: at a time when the price of oil is rising, when gas and oil reserves are dwindling because of the growing needs of the emerging countries, it is useful to provide for alternative energy sources.
the biofuels, whose development we have long supported, meet, albeit partially, the needs of the agricultural economy: improvement of the environment by reducing greenhouse gases, we are told, production of renewable energy to promote energy independence, creation of jobs in rural areas, balancing territories against rural desertification, cultivation for non-food purposes of fallow land.
i voted for the joint resolution tabled by four political groups on the security of energy supply in the european union.
the energy question will become crucial in the post-oil world to ensure economic development and social progress while respecting our environment.
it is good that nuclear energy is no longer a taboo and i am pleased that the emphasis has been placed on sustainable energy sources and the urgent need to accelerate research and development programmes in this area.
we partly agree with the conclusions of this resolution: concern about our countries' energy dependence and its possible economic and social consequences; the need to promote indigenous renewable energy sources that are more environmentally friendly; investing in energy efficiency or looking for new energy savings.
on the other hand, we do not agree with the commission's self-appointed role in the energy sector, a role which is not in the treaties, a role which even your european constitution reduced to a statement of the existing situation, but which this parliament wants to develop.
the liberalization of the electricity and gas markets only produces higher energy prices for consumers, supply disruptions and a widespread movement of companies towards concentration.
even my country, which has a tradition of producing electricity in excess, with almost 90% of its electricity coming from nuclear or renewable sources, is now facing this type of problem.
states must remain the sole masters of their energy policy.
i would like to thank the representatives of the european commission and the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy for their attention and their replies to the questions raised.
these projects can therefore be considered as priorities for financing under the transeuropean energy networks and will receive special attention under other community funds.
on the one hand, the limited amount of funding available for the transeuropean energy networks, probably just enough to finance a few feasibility studies.
in view of the recent crisis between ukraine and russia and the declarations made at hampton court, the need for a european energy policy is clear.
not only have we not learned any lessons from the 2000 blackouts in california, but you are creating the conditions for europe to experience a full-scale energy catastrophe.
your proposals will lead to cheaper and less reliable energy.
the separation of the transmission network from the power generation units is an economic, ecological and industrial aberration.
the capitalist market is incapable of taking on long-term investments in the energy sector.
the satisfaction of shareholder interests means sacrificing research, sustainable development and security.
the choice to create an artificial single internal energy market will also lead to the elimination of many jobs and the precariousness of many others.
trans-european networks are an extremely important part, but they are just one part, of european energy policy as i see it.
i think the great news i have had over recent months is the cooperation in the energy sector between baltic countries.
governments are looking for a common energy policy even if their markets are isolated; but that still clearly indicates that governments should look towards that policy.
in this respect trans-european energy networks actually provide the basis of an answer.
finally, in answer to the question as to what european energy policy means, it does not mean the sum of eu member states’ policies.
it is based on member states’ policies, but it creates a new area of action for the european union in a situation where globalisation in energy markets has given rise to new challenges, where the action of one member state does not fully or adequately respond to the expectations of the citizens of that state, and where it is our duty to act at the scale of and within the scope of the european union as a whole.
it must integrate social objectives, environmental objectives, long-term objectives.
i hope that in this way we will be able to bring the concept of free and undistorted competition back into balance so that the union is indeed the most competitive area in the world, while respecting full employment and sustainable development.
there are certainly shortcomings and the european union's energy must be focused on meeting the commitments it has made in favour of development.
i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague josé manuel garcia-margallo y marfil on the state of the european economy in the context of the preparatory report for the broad economic policy guidelines for 2006, which highlights the conditions for sustainable economic growth.
the demand for european legislation that is 'compatible with that of our competitors' may be an unacceptable call to action, at least in social and environmental terms.
we can only welcome any initiative to make the regulatory environment more readable and more coherent.
the establishment of national correspondents is a positive measure if the controls include a quantitative and qualitative analysis and an analysis of the impact on the social, economic and ecological environment.
we need to invest more time and energy.
but the truth is that we can see results in the energy sector, in small and mediumsized enterprises, in research, in the employment objectives, in general in the new governance system of the lisbon strategy, and we have also confirmed at the european council level a consensus on the services directive.
i would like to stress in particular, with regard to energy, that our work in the european council is by no means over and if you look at the results of yesterday's commission meeting you will see that the commission is determined to enforce all the principles of community law: full respect for the internal market and the rules of competition.
i think this is important in order to ensure continuity and sustainability in the european council's efforts.
i am absolutely convinced that if we achieve concrete results, if we succeed in solving the problems one by one, we will be able to make progress in this europe of projects, regain the confidence of our citizens and find a better environment for solving some institutional questions that need to be solved.
europe is facing a major problem, the scale and urgency of which was demonstrated by the russian-ukrainian crisis in january: the absence of a common energy policy.
the european council launched an ambitious strategy for secure, competitive and sustainable energy for europe.
there are therefore situations in which the european union can force governments to negotiate because their vital interests require it, and the environment is one of those examples.
it is important not to lose sight of the achievement and the increasable contribution of many health workers who continue to serve their people, despite the challenges of their jobs and working environment.
it would be a waste of money to start a promotion campaign at this stage, but i can assure you that when the time is right, then all the legal aspects will be settled so that we can act immediately.
the rapporteur stresses all the issues raised by this new system of budget support in the fight against corruption, as well as the increased difficulty in the present context, due to the increasing pressure on raw materials and, in particular, on oil energy, which is becoming scarce.
nevertheless, to be sustainable a political conciliation in darfur has also to be based on the provisions of justice and international support for the construction of the region.
i am thinking in particular of the environment agency and the €906 000 in taxes unduly collected by the city of copenhagen between 2000 and 2004. i am also thinking of the translation centre for the bodies of the union and the litigation involving the payment of employers' tax, which amounts to eur 7.5 million, or one quarter of its annual budget.
it is not for europe to participate in the destruction of linguistic biodiversity.
the same is true in the energy sector.
it is clear that the question of energy and its transport will be one of the major issues of our century.
as a french member of the european parliament, and given the geographical situation of france, which is a true crossroads within europe, i fully support all initiatives aimed at unclogging our roads, promoting alternative modes of transport for goods and people other than road transport and improving the environmental performance of the transport system in general.
as the rapporteur has pointed out, if no significant measures are taken to reduce road congestion, road freight transport will increase by more than 60% globally by 2013. we will face more accidents, more congestion, more environmental degradation and, finally, higher costs for the whole of european industry which, as it relies on reliable and profitable transport chains, will lose competitiveness.
mr president, in the face of the dangers to safety and the environment, in the face of the practices of a profession which all too often turns its employees into modern-day slaves, in the face of the significant increase in the flows announced, the commission seems to be realizing that the problem is serious and that it should be dealt with.
it is good to control nutrition claims to prevent cholesterol and diabetes merchants from selling their hyper-sweet drinks and hyper-lipid foods under the guise of energy propaganda.
for the past two years, the european commission has been working to develop standardization in health, social, environmental and community services.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
i would therefore ask the commission, since we must do more and better with the means at our disposal today - which seems to be the word on the agenda - not to make a mistake in allocating the meagre resources available and to invest in projects whose fundamental principles are lasting peace and regional stability, respect for human rights and democracy, and sustainable development.
as regards our priorities, they will remain first and foremost internal policies which must support the lisbon objectives, without forgetting the environment and rural development, the only guarantee of a balanced spatial planning.
promoting sustainable growth and job creation in the union requires that member states properly implement existing and proposed legislation, but also that we propose more ambitious targets in this area.
investing in sustainable development, according to the greens, is a good thing.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have long subsidized development in the fields of agriculture, industry and transport, which has degraded the environment and led to the alarming situation we are experiencing today, and we are paying the price: natural disasters are the forerunners of these errors.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
we have just seen a year of a huge battle to secure funding for the conservation of natura 2000 biodiversity, and we have failed.
today we must ask the crucial question: what kind of agriculture and transport do we want to have tomorrow if we consider the kyoto protocol to be the centrepiece of climate change and the fight against it?
the own-initiative report of the committee on regional development underlines the disastrous impact of these disasters on the economy, employment, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and tourism, and rightly emphasizes the need for effective measures in terms of alert, civil protection and assistance to the regions and populations affected.
major changes in climate, industry and technology, but also terrorism, health risks, etc., made it essential for the european union to provide its citizens and member states with a tool capable of coping with a disaster that a member state alone would be helpless to face.
although the basic idea of the energy community treaty (ect) seems to be good, since it is intended to help the countries of south-east europe which are experiencing considerable difficulties in this field, we believe that this treaty suffers from two major shortcomings.
firstly, the treaties do not confer any competence, let alone such important competence, on the european union in the field of energy, the commission having used the provisions on competition policy to confer it.
secondly, the ultimate objective of the ect is to create an internal energy market between the european union and nine other countries, even though within the eu this policy has shown its limits: gradual replacement of public monopolies by monopolies or quasi-monopolies with the undermining of public services, increase in electricity prices even in countries whose electricity production is very little dependent on the price of oil, risk of shortages in the short term due to a policy favouring deregulation over security of supply... there were other ways of helping our european neighbours to meet their energy needs than by creating a controversial institutional and political system within the european union itself.
another result: what is the opinion of the respondents about the role played by the european union in some 15 areas ranging from environmental protection to the fight against terrorism and social policy, with the protection of social rights appearing at the bottom of the list?
secondly, we urgently need new common policies: i am thinking of research and development, i am thinking of defence, i am thinking of the question of energy, its production and its transport, i am also thinking of the question of migration and co-development.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while the tourism sector undeniably contributes to growth and employment in the european union, it has yet to bridge the incomprehensible gap between the sensible proposals to make this activity more dynamic and sustainable and the lack of concrete and rapid action.
this is inevitably the case with the development of new forms of sustainable tourism such as agritourism, hiking, cycling and horse riding.
mr president, we approve the research programme proposed to us because it focuses on fusion energy research and on safety and waste management.
the so-called fourth generation plants do not seem to us to be a complete solution to the present safety and environmental problems, and they also pose the problem of the large-scale circulation of radioactive materials.
secondly, as regards the information of the general public, i quote, 'the benefits of a safe use of atomic energy' must not, in view of the interests involved, lead to misinformation or even intoxication of the public.
mr president, if we believe that access to safe and cheap energy is an inalienable right, if we want every citizen to be able to consume the energy necessary for his development, we can only share the objectives of our colleague mr buzek's report.
it is a future solution to guarantee energy independence, universal access to electricity and the development of skilled industrial jobs.
let us recognize that alternative energy sources will not meet demand and that fossil fuels will only increase pollution.
moreover, only public control, as opposed to the single energy market, will safely achieve the objectives pursued by euratom.
i would, however, caution against the temptation to go for areas such as agriculture and energy, which require funding, while other sectors seem to be over-endowed.
research must contribute to strengthening our unity by integrating people and territories into the european research area and, at the same time, foster a model of smart and sustainable development, while demanding excellence and efficiency.
it is good that the focus has been on health, sustainable development and energy, as well as on ict, which accounts for 40% of our growth.
finally, the third point concerns the priority given to sustainable development, health and innovation, which is absolutely essential.
yes, we must protect our waters from pollution threats, while striking an optimal balance between protecting our groundwater and developing economic activities.
many members have supported the idea of a strategic stock of antivirals, and i am glad that the environment committee has supported my proposal for a compulsory licence which should allow for faster and more massive production of antivirals so that in each member state there is at least coverage of 25 to 30% of the population.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental policy of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), which was adopted in april 2003, aims to ensure that projects financed by the bank respect the environment and the applicable regulatory requirements.
it is a publicly acknowledged fact - as the honourable members know - that the policy of the ebrd in relation to environmental standards and the precautionary principle is extremely rigorous.
since 2002, the ebrd has been paying particular attention to sajalin 2, working closely with the company, sajalin energy, to assess all aspects of the project, in particular its environmental and social impacts, and to develop appropriate monitoring and mitigation measures in line with the bank's environmental policy.
in short, the ebrd has put considerable pressure on sajalin energy to improve the environmental quality of the project.
we will soon have new information from ongoing evaluations and public consultations which will enable the community manager to the ebrd, the european commission representative to the ebrd, to take a position on the degree to which the project is in line with the bank's environmental policy.
i have said that the bank is analysing the conclusions of the expert groups which have to report on whether or not the situation corresponds to the criteria of the bank's environmental policy.
if the bank is involved in the overall financing of the project, although it is involved in a small percentage, the bank, for a number of reasons which i do not have time to explain, has a great deal of influence over the company to improve the environmental and social conditions of the project.
but if, in the end, the company cannot meet those conditions, the representative of the european commission will act accordingly, and i trust that the bank will do the same, applying the criteria of its environmental policy, which, as i said at the beginning, are generally recognised as rigorous and transparent criteria, because they are known throughout the world since their adoption in 2003.
commissioner, what about the indigenous peoples?
the commission has obviously not failed to address this gap: while, strictly speaking, this new criminal jurisdiction concerns only the environment, a commission communication of november 2005 extends this jurisdiction to other matters, including the four freedoms, including the cap, including fisheries.
i believe that the interpretation of this judgment should not apply to the environment alone, in order to strengthen the democratic control of parliament and thus to enable citizens to be better protected.
yes, this wild communitization of criminal law is unlimited, since the commission has subsequently decided to have nine framework decisions annulled, which, after the environment, allows it to get its hands on the criminal law of illegal immigration, marine pollution and intellectual property.
this applies to the common energy policy, and europe's action in the world is no exception.
helping to meet the energy challenge of the 21st century is indeed a paramount european responsibility.
preparing for the post-oil era, going much further in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, developing research efforts to increase energy efficiency and diversity, transforming the organization of transport, affirming the right to energy for all - these are highly political tasks which cannot, on pain of failure, be held back by short-sighted market calculations.
we want governments and our parliament to build the policies we need: immigration, energy, economic coordination, research, security, foreign policy.
it is a europe of projects, a europe of growth and knowledge, a europe of research, energy and cooperation in the mediterranean.
our heads of state and government will have to debate key issues for our future: energy independence, migration, the future of the constitutional treaty and enlargement.
the committee on the environment is right to propose that we go beyond the mere collection of data to also assess member states' policies in order to benefit from best practice.
this is the first time that the court has ruled on questions of criminal jurisdiction and has decided that the european union, in order to protect the environment, may require member states to provide for criminal sanctions in the event of serious infringements.
mr president, commissioner, when you were reviewing the lisbon strategy, you decided to dissociate the lisbon strategy from the sustainable development strategy, which seems to me to be a mistake.
for reasons of credibility, it is not possible to claim that sustainable development is one of the three pillars of the lisbon strategy without creating the necessary bridges.
sustainable development today sounds hollow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
it must be accompanied by renewable energy.
as for the council, i would like to ask it to rationalise the instruments at the disposal of the union: the cardiff process on the integration of environmental aspects into other policies, the gothenburg strategy on sustainable development, the recently revised lisbon strategy.
frankly, in the politics of the moment, let us give priority to the visionary politics, the one that thinks about tomorrow and that makes sustainable development an essential key to the future.
mr president, the idea of sustainable development is a good one.
so we have to limit ourselves, especially as the ice melts, the water rises, the greenhouse effect will suffocate us, the sun will go out and the raw materials will run out because the chinese consume everything.
in fact, the only thing that is sustainable is underdevelopment.
the only thing that is sustainable is poverty, which is a socially transmitted disease from generation to generation.
in short, the scourge of sustainable development is the idea that the rich explain to the poor that to save humanity, they must deprive themselves of the present.
the global ecological crisis is hitting us hard and i will not list the problems that arise in this context.
that the commission and the member states use and abuse the rhetoric of sustainable development to justify, sometimes cynically, unsustainable, unsustainable policies.
i will take the example of biodiversity, the thread of our own survival, which you know very well, mr pröll.
while we have been fighting a real battle here to get budgets for biodiversity in the financial perspective, while we have announced that the natura 2000 programme will be taken into account by the structural funds, an argument used to not create a new budget line, can you tell us - and here i ask the commission, which is not listening - why biodiversity has not been included among the priorities of the erdf and why biodiversity has not been the subject of any budget allocation.
knowing this, i would really like to know who is sabotaging sustainable development in these institutions?
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the first is my very great astonishment at mr rack's allusion to change as if we were not always determined to give priority to rail, when rail has a number of advantages that we know about in terms of energy and environmental problems.
and i also propose adding the word 'hateful' to paragraph 2, which would read, i read you the beginning: 'strongly condemns all racist and hateful attacks and urges all national authorities to do everything possible to ensure that those responsible are convicted and to avoid a climate of impunity in these cases', etc.
preserving the environment is an ecological necessity, but also an economic one.
the most destructive system of the 20th century was communism, which not only killed tens of millions of people but also ravaged the environment.
the restoration of our frontiers, a great family policy, these are the conditions for the genuine and sustainable development of our nations.
this is not the time to let our guard down, especially since coastal fishing is the most ecologically friendly, the least energy-consuming and the most job-creating of all fisheries.
that is where your energy should be directed, commissioner.
the agenda calls for the report by caroline lucas, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on reducing the impact of aviation on climate change [2005/2249(ini) ] (a6-0201/2006).
the agenda calls for the report by eija-riita korhola, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application to the institutions and bodies of the ec of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation and access to justice in the field of the environment (pe-cons 3614/2006 c6-0156/2006 2003/0242cod) (a6-0230/2006).
the agenda calls for the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and repealing directive 91/157/eec (pe-cons 3615/2006 c60154/2006 2003/0282 ((cod)) (a6-0231/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the objectives of this directive, which is one of the elements of european environmental policy.
on the regulations more specifically, parliament can be pleased to see that many of its requirements have been taken up by the council, in particular better consideration of disabled people and sustainable development.
yes, aviation is contributing to climate change.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and its implementation in the member states.
it is therefore essential to focus simultaneously on integrating the impacts of aviation into the community's emissions trading system, on research, on improving air traffic management and on energy taxation.
but this new element of the fight against climate change must not be done at any cost.
i insist that the commission should propose rational solutions in both economic and environmental terms.
although the objective of reducing the impact of aviation on climate change, in particular the reduction of co2 emissions, is highly commendable, it seems to me essential that our parliament takes into account the situation of the most remote regions of the union.
i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague eija-riitta korhola on the compromise reached with the european council on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information, public participation and access to justice in the field of the environment.
the agenda calls for the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the community lisbon programme: more research and innovation investing for growth and jobs: a common approach (2006/2005 (ini)) (a60204/2006).
the usual policy of competition and liberalisation, particularly of the energy market, the accompanying effects of globalisation which are considered inevitable and ultimately beneficial for shareholders, the modernisation of intellectual property law, the symbol of which is the software patent rejected by users and smes in the sector and the simplification of legislation, such as the reach directive this 1200 page gas plant which endangers the european chemical industry!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, france has caused a wave of indignation when it classified the transport of radioactive waste as a defence secret.
the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament, echoing the french idea that 'information on transfers ... is handled with all due diligence and protected against abuse', is in fact proposing to institutionalize defence secrecy at european level.
what a loss of credibility for our parliament if it adopted obscurantism as the rule for highly radioactive waste.
we know that landfilling is not the answer to nuclear waste management.
that is why we reject the idea of building a european nuclear waste dump in bure, in my region, or anywhere else.
in addition, it is not responsible to delegate the management of nuclear waste to third countries, such as ukraine or russia, as is proposed.
the idea is ethically and morally wrong when it comes to nuclear waste, which, let us not forget, must be monitored for all eternity.
in the meantime, the acceptable solution - and this is the answer i would like to give to my epp colleagues - is to store the waste in the nuclear power stations.
it is the only place where they are safe, and it would stop the "tourism" of waste that travels across europe by road or rail.
let me return, as my colleague mr poettering did, to another problem, that of russia and energy.
for the moment, europe seems to be on putin's heels, because it is afraid of losing its energy.
and when you're afraid of losing your energy, you have no energy at all!
wood, as a renewable resource, meets criteria of interest to europe in the context of climate change.
you talk about energy policy, but what we're asking you to do is be strong.
in addition, if we were to set up a single new financial instrument, i believe that a guarantee fund should be created to ensure the sustainability of micro-projects in poor countries.
beyond the difficulties encountered, this is the aim of the action carried out by the union in the democratic republic of the congo, which gives priority to public policies in the fields of health, education and the environment, even though it is regrettable that this has been undermined in recent years by other policies of the union and the member states, particularly in the economic and commercial fields.
so we need a coherent and comprehensive approach, so that we can link immigration to sustainable development issues and not just make it a security issue.
instead of wasting billions on pseudo-integration, our governments should, on the one hand, implement a genuine policy of cooperation with the countries of emigration based on reciprocity and, on the other hand, launch a great family policy to ensure the sustainability of our nations.
the pressure currently exerted by the increasing opening of global markets is a serious threat to the economic, ecological and social viability of the various global agricultural models: by forcing them to produce at ever lower prices, it puts farmers at risk by undermining their incomes, and contributes to the deterioration of the working conditions of agricultural workers and the environment.
in this context, the commission must now send a strong political signal in favour of a trading system which provides producers with a remunerative income and helps to remove any temptation to social and environmental dumping.
we must be careful not to devote such energy to protecting our defensive interests in agriculture in these negotiations that we fail to prioritise our offensive interests in non-agricultural market access and in services.
this economic and social struggle, but also the environmental struggle, as you know, is about respect for our values.
if we want to enforce our convictions, both in terms of social and environmental clauses in international trade agreements, we must impose the traceability of imported products and our internal market is an important weapon in this fight.
the exploitation of oil, which will not last forever, must not be done at the expense of marine and coastal biodiversity but must, for example, preserve the argouin bank from pollution and ensure sustainable management of the fishery resources that mauritanians so badly need.
(the sitting was closed at 5.20 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with our spanish, greek, italian and other friends who have suffered from these forest fires, and of course i have a thought for the victims, because these fires are ecological tragedies, human tragedies.
it takes political courage to put in place genuine land-use planning policies that preserve our natural spaces and the diversity necessary for the ecological balance of our planet.
the role of europe is to set common objectives for good forest management with a certain degree of flexibility, because the mediterranean forest is not the same as the scandinavian forest and if climate change worsens drought in one region, it unfortunately causes floods in another.
finally, the drc's mineral and forestry resources are now being exploited in a blatantly corrupt way, often with disastrous social and environmental impacts.
the responses given not only by the elected congolese authorities but also by the political and economic partners of the european union in terms of transparency, the use of rents, and the social and ecological conditions of exploitation will be essential in determining whether or not the drc is able to act in favour of sustainable development.
in any case, everything must be done to give the democratic republic of congo and the millions of congolese who have suffered so much and who have reacted with such energy and vigour a chance.
and it will leave the multilateral system intact, which will not disappear, whereas the point is to start reforming it and make it more compatible with the development goals and with the other rules of the international community: the need to take into account the public health, environmental objectives, and tomorrow - we hope - also the social dimension of globalisation.
as regards the doha agenda, would it not be a good idea to take note of the development part where there is a consensus and to leave international trade reform aside while the developing countries adopt social and environmental standards which allow for fair global competition?
i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague luis de grandes pascual on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the multiannual funding over seven years of the european maritime safety agency by providing it with substantial financial means to carry out its new tasks, namely: to combat accidental or deliberate pollution caused by ships.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr riis-jørgensen's report on car taxation seeks to impose a traffic tax based on the polluting emissions of cars, in order to encourage motorists to opt for the least polluting vehicles, while ensuring that manufacturers have a more homogeneous and transparent market.
but this tax only affects private cars, which account for less than half of the co2 emissions attributable to transport.
moreover, the fiscal route does not appear to be the best solution to this pollution problem, in view of the prospects for technological development and the regulatory means.
should we discuss binding measures to curb climate change?
environmental taxation is a tool for citizens and the planet.
if properly developed, it will encourage innovation in transport sectors and promote energy savings.
it is essential to empower citizens and develop tools for assessing the ecological footprint.
it would build an environmental tax architecture that is up to the challenge.
we regret that the ep has not followed the green amendments requiring member states to reduce co2 emissions from transport.
it would be contrary to our values and futile to seek the lowest labour costs, the most docile employees, the lowest taxes, the most lax environmental, social, health and safety standards of our competitors.
we are in a protected environment in the european union.
let us not be mistaken, we are not dealing with amateurs, with boy scouts, we are dealing with a perfectly organized environment, because counterfeiting medicines is less risky and more lucrative than drug trafficking.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
clearly, we have not done enough to ensure that our model of sustainable development, which combines economic growth, social ambition and respect for the environment, is coherent.
the objectives of these agreements, which are renewable for six and seven years respectively, are: economic, financial, technical and scientific cooperation in the field of fisheries; the fixing of conditions for access by community fishing vessels to seychelles and comoros territorial waters; the establishment of partnerships between undertakings for the purpose of developing, in the common interest, economic activities in the field of fisheries and related activities.
as an overseas elected representative who is aware of the role of fisheries in the overseas economy, particularly in réunion, i welcome europe's contribution to the establishment of responsible fishing in the indian ocean and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the necessary resources must be mobilised from the structural funds, from own resources for the environment and from national resources.
(applause from the centre)
the agenda calls for the joint debate on the following reports: the report by holger krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on ambient air quality and clean air for europe (com ((2005) 0447 c60356/2005 2005/0183/cod)) (a60234/2006), and the report by dorette corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy on air pollution (2006/2060 (ini)) (a60235/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the two rapporteurs and congratulate them on their extremely diligent work, mrs corbey, rapporteur for the report on the thematic strategy on air pollution, and mr krahmer, rapporteur for the proposal for a directive on air quality and cleaner air in europe.
i would also like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in particular for its efforts so far.
air pollution is and will remain one of the most important public health problems.
because of this pollution, life expectancy in the european union today is 8.5 months shorter.
the quality of life of hundreds of thousands of people is being degraded every day and the natural environment is at risk, despite the significant reductions in emissions in recent years.
it sets new, groundbreaking goals for health and the environment.
as regards the natural environment, we expect the area of ecosystems threatened by acidification to decline by more than 50% and the area of ecosystems threatened by the presence of excess nitrogen by more than 30%.
these are ambitious targets, and their achievement will bring multiple environmental benefits.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution.
the commission has already put forward a proposal to reduce emissions from passenger cars and vans - often referred to as the euro v proposal - and the committee on the environment has recently adopted its draft report.
uncontrolled natural sources of pollution shall not be taken into account.
a lower ceiling until the end of 2009 combined with the possibility of excluding pollution from natural sources.
the committee on the environment has proposed two five-year periods from the entry into force of the new directive.
the new amendment tabled before this plenary session - amendment no 81 - is in the right direction but again cannot be accepted because if we accept the four plus two years from the entry into force of the new directive we will delay compliance until the year 2013 for the pm10 limit values already agreed in 1999. the member states have known these limits since 1999. in accordance with the council and parliament's decision on the sixth environment action programme, the commission has asked the experts of the world health organisation to advise on whether the limit values currently in force for air quality should be changed.
amendments nos 46 and 81 increase the number of days allowed for exceeding the limit from 35 to 55. if these amendments were accepted, then on the basis of 2004 data, air pollution measures would no longer be required in cities such as vienna, frankfurt, brno, stuttgart and others.
weaken the daily limit value or take measures to deal with the pollution problem?
the amendment which weakens the limit values if no new community pollution reduction measures have been taken beforehand cannot also be accepted.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to combat air pollution effectively and achieve results in the field of health, we must adopt far more ambitious plans here.
the bad excuse of the difficulties some member states have in implementing environmental legislation is no longer acceptable, because health is no longer negotiable.
the cost of air pollution-related diseases is increasing day by day.
in fact, some economists believe that the price of a gallon of oil should be raised from $3 to $10 to offset the health costs and the costs of climate change.
the union must not weaken itself, commissioner, in environmental policy, which it would tend to do by the insidious game of simplifying and concentrating european legal texts.
the ecological disaster which threatens us, ladies and gentlemen, calls for drastic measures and the example comes to us for the first time from across the atlantic, where the state of california is provoking reflection by bringing a complaint against the largest car manufacturers for damage to the environment and damage to public health.
i think we will miss your report to the environment committee, but we wish you well on the other side of the border, on the other side of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, air quality is one of the keys to successful sustainable development.
we know that the movement of pollution from the wind interferes.
pollution travels and reaches territories that are not themselves sources of pollution.
contrary to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, high levels of air pollution are not always found in urban areas with a high population density.
but for this european policy to be visible, it must first of all be coherent and be part of an integrated approach to combating climate change.
let me refer to the regulation on motor vehicle emissions, the euro 5 regulation.
if we are reducing emissions, we are also increasing co2 emissions, which, as we know, are the cause of climate change.
a comprehensive view is needed to better understand the challenge of the urban environment, particularly in social, cultural and environmental terms.
i agree with the emphasis in this report on a number of fundamental points: exchanging good practice and promoting the training of local actors, controlling the growing volume of traffic and breaking the correlation between transport growth and gdp growth, encouraging energy savings and improving the energy efficiency of buildings, imposing the implementation of sustainable urban management programmes and sustainable urban transport programmes for any agglomeration of more than 100 000 inhabitants and, finally, proposing a target for the per capita area of green space in new urban developments.
i would also like to emphasize what mrs harkin said, that one key competency is to learn to learn, not to expect everything to be encyclopedically learned in school, but to be able to deal with information, with experience, with an environment that is increasingly complex and increasingly global.
in our view, the field to be covered is simply that of equal 21st century fundamental rights for everyone: education, health, housing and shelter, early childhood, information, culture, transport, telecommunications, postal services, energy, water supply, wastewater and waste disposal, and the needs that have become unavoidable such as access to credit.
we must meet their demands for quality, affordability, social responsibility and respect for the environment.
i am thinking, for example, of price developments in the energy sector or of certain well-founded fears in the postal sector.
i would ask mrs in't veld to take note of this initiative, which aims to clarify, secure and guarantee the sustainability of public service and general interest missions.
the essential areas such as education, health and water must not be liberalized and we must deal with the mixed situations where social, economic and ecological issues are intertwined.
we believe that only a strong public authority is capable of securing a future, which is not conceived on the basis of the quarterly return on equities alone, but over decades in the fields of education, health, transport, energy, ecology.
the fight against air pollution is a duty for future generations and it was becoming normal, in view of recent developments in science and health issues, to revise and simplify the existing texts.
in the end, this report does not correspond to the ambition we have clearly expressed in environmental matters, both on the international stage and among the european citizens.
but in the general climate of bastardisation that dany cohn-bendit denounced a few moments ago, this is unusual.
i would like to say in a word how much i appreciate the flexibility which has been announced in this text from the outset, flexibility which should allow priority to be given, taking into account the strengths and weaknesses of each region, to transport, the environment and energy in particular.
however, a reorientation exclusively towards innovation, the knowledge economy, competitiveness and entrepreneurship is not enough to achieve the objectives of territorial cohesion and sustainable development, which i believe are of priority.
i am concerned, however, about the absences, the shortcomings in the rural environment, which is not very well funded ...
mr president, commissioner, we have little doubt about the outcome of tomorrow's vote on these strategic guidelines, which will probably be almost unanimously approved by this house.
in this context, emphasis should be placed on actions with a long-term impact, such as those carried out in the field of transport and the environment, but also in the framework of the lisbon strategy for supporting smes and the cross-border labour market.
finally, i would like to thank mrs constance krehl for her report and, above all, for her constantly renewed commitment to sustainable cohesion.
i share the commission's objective of ensuring that this allowance also contributes to creating sustainable growth and jobs in the outermost regions.
so how can we believe that we will be able to dry up these migration flows, when we already anticipate the future arrival of climate refugees?
however, a reorientation towards innovation, the knowledge economy and competitiveness in the former member states alone is not enough to achieve the objectives of territorial cohesion and sustainability, which i believe are a priority.
in particular, it has the courage to point out that it is impossible to define gis in a uniform way in an economic and social environment as heterogeneous as that of the european union and that, in this matter, the principle of subsidiarity should be reaffirmed by leaving it to the member states to set the course for what is or is not in the general interest and to assume directly the consequences of their decisions.
this resolution does not consider services of general interest as a fundamental pillar of the european social model or as a means of achieving the social, economic, ecological and territorial cohesion objectives of the union.
a framework directive should guarantee equality between users, equality between citizens and territories, spatial planning and the long-term sustainability of the services provided, as well as a level of quality.
it has been committed to environmental protection, the application of international labour law standards, the fight against poverty and the fight against aids.
to summarise, without any doubt we need a balanced approach, which is transparent, with a high level of care for public health, safety, the environment and consumer protection, but aimed at exploiting the huge potential of nanosciences and nanotechnologies in research and innovation.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
we ended up organising the lahti meeting because we wanted to give the heads of state of the union the opportunity to have an open and free debate on two subjects which are important for the future and economic success of the union: innovation and external energy relations.
we need a coherent and strong policy both in terms of creating an enabling environment for innovation and in energy matters.
a coherent common energy policy will also strengthen the union's credibility as an international actor.
the commission will prepare the discussions of the meeting of heads of state or government to guide two communications, one on external relations in the energy sector and the other on innovation policy.
the talks with the president are to focus on the eu-russia strategic partnership, including cooperation on energy issues.
mr president, the major challenges facing the union in the field of energy - security of energy supply, climate change, the continuing rise in energy prices and the recent crises - have given impetus to the development of a common eu energy policy.
the eu's growing dependence on energy imports is a particular challenge in securing its energy supply.
before the finnish presidency, the development of the common energy policy was discussed at the two european council meetings earlier this year.
the finnish part of the meeting will focus on external energy relations and will build on the broad energy debate to be held next spring, leading to the adoption of the energy policy action programme.
although the focus of the gulf talks will be on external energy relations, it is clear that our external relations objectives cannot be considered as a separate issue.
there is a close link between all the priority areas of energy policy identified in the green paper.
other areas deal with the internal energy market, solidarity between member states, diversification of energy sources, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, and energy innovation.
external energy policy must achieve a common understanding and vision among member states of the basis of strategy for relations with non-eu countries and of the eu's common external objectives.
by committing to common objectives, the union is also better prepared to face the changes in the world energy market.
the gulf energy summit will be an exchange of views on how external energy relations could be developed in the near future.
the discussions will focus on three main themes: firstly, the principles underlying the eu-russia energy relationship and the implementation of these principles; secondly, closer relations with strategically important third countries; and thirdly, better data collection as a basis for decision-making on the common energy policy.
russia, which accounts for 25% of both oil and gas imports, is the union's most important strategic energy partner.
the eu-russia energy relationship is characterised by a common interest: the eu is dependent on russian energy imports, while russia needs not only long-term, market-price agreements for its energy exports, but also western investment in basic energy production.
the eu heads of state or government's discussions will also build on the discussions with russian president vladimir putin later in the evening, one of the key themes of which will be energy issues.
the aim is to convey to russia the eu's commitment to a binding framework for energy agreements that takes into account the interests of both parties, reciprocity and a level playing field.
the eu and russia will also be faced with common challenges, such as energy efficiency, which both sides have to overcome.
the extension of the principles of the energy common market to the eu's neighbouring regions and the development of relations with strategically important third countries are desirable in terms of security of energy supply.
there are a wide range of instruments for developing relations with third countries, such as the neighbourhood policy action programmes, the energy cooperation agreement, bilateral agreements and regional agreements.
energy policy must be one of the pillars of the union's common foreign and security policy.
the european union needs sufficient information to pursue a more coherent energy policy.
it must also be able to respond to external energy crises and emergencies.
the union should also set up a system to increase cooperation between member states and institutions and to improve solidarity on energy issues.
the aim is to create an environment in which innovation is both generated and effectively used.
energy is an important aspect of the strategic partnership and we look forward to hearing president putin's assessment of the development of his country's energy sector and the eu-russia energy partnership.
since the minister made such a comprehensive presentation on behalf of the presidency, i will focus on innovation, energy policy and immigration.
it is only by unlocking people’s imaginations that we can tackle the major issues facing us today, such as climate change, social exclusion, demographic change and unemployment.
one of the fields in which i think we as european leaders can give a mission to a european institute of technology is that of energy and climate change.
energy is one of the most important challenges we have today.
let me now turn to the issue of energy and let me make it plain: we need to create a truly european energy policy, not 25 energy policies.
it is absurd in the 21st century to go on with 25 or 27 energy policies.
we need a truly european energy policy.
the problems we face – high energy prices, climate change, increasing dependence on imported hydrocarbons – are global and european problems.
in our green paper of march 2006, the commission defined clear objectives for a european energy policy, long-term sustainability, security of energy supply and economic competitiveness.
the next step is a strategic energy review which the commission will propose at the very beginning of next year.
it is obvious that we need coherence between the internal and external aspects of energy policy.
we clearly need an effective internal market in energy.
having 25 or 27 different energy mini-markets is not the answer to the european energy challenges.
our paper for lahti will look at the three external challenges: russia, which i will return to; developing our energy relations with our neighbours; and creating a network to deal with external energy shocks.
it is essential to build up energy cooperation with strategically important supply and transit countries.
this is already happening with initiatives such as the new energy community treaty and the memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation with ukraine.
we need to extend the principles of the internal energy market gradually throughout our neighbourhood.
we also need to join the different areas of expertise which exist around europe to create a more effective network to deal with external energy shocks.
of course, in the medium term, the best way to cope with energy shocks is through diversity: diversity of energy sources, of country of origin and of country of transit.
indeed, we need to mainstream energy to make it a major focus of our relations with partners worldwide.
finally, energy efficiency is another crucial element of this strategy.
i can announce to you today that next week commissioner piebalgs – the commissioner for energy – and i will propose an ambitious action plan to fulfil our commitment to save 20% of primary energy use by 2020. naturally, with 25% of the oil and gas consumed in the european union coming from russia, energy cooperation with russia is crucial.
we must have a reinforced energy partnership with russia.
this is the only way to have a stable and secure platform for our energy relationship.
there are mutual benefits to be realised in areas such as investment and market-opening, as well as in energy and energy efficiency.
the solution to this problem will come only with our support for sustainable development in africa.
(applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the informal lahti council on 20 october will once again be an opportunity to raise recurring issues such as competitiveness, innovation, immigration and energy policy.
i fear that competitiveness and innovation will suffer the same fate as sustainable development: everyone talks about it, everyone agrees with it, but when it comes to doing something, good principles are lost.
finally, on the energy question, i hope that the discussions with president putin will enable europe to put in place all the structures necessary to guarantee its energy independence.
it must also be able to develop renewable energy sources to ensure its energy independence alongside nuclear energy.
because we - yes, this is germany, you have your grand coalition, i can speak of the red-green coalition, which has concluded an impossible treaty with russia and has not pursued any europeanisation of energy policy - have established a link with russia!
in conclusion, i can only say that the energy problems, the immigration problems, all these problems will only be solved if we - and graham watson is right - at some point honestly identify the problems that limit our attitude.
if there is one area in which brussels is prolific, it is in the creation of agencies: defence, the fight against drugs, maritime, road and air safety, energy, reconstruction... today is the day of the eu's fundamental rights.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the members of the committee on the environment, and especially my fictitious colleagues for the work we have done together, because i think it is fair to say that, even though the chamber is not very full, as is usual at this hour, we have really done a lot of work together and that this report bearing my name could just as well be named after my colleagues mrs gutierrez, mrs ries or mrs lienemann, who has apologised for not being able to be here this evening.
indeed, ladies and gentlemen, life+ is no longer the programme we used to know, but will indeed be the 'environment' budget line of the union.
life+ will therefore be the basis for innovative european policies, will address challenges such as the fight against climate change, air and soil pollution, will halt the degradation of biodiversity, and will enable dg environment and ngos, our quintessential bio-indicators, to add european added value to the environmental policies of the member states.
the debate then focused on support for the natura 2000 network, the cornerstone of our environmental policies.
as natura 2000 is not specifically mentioned in the financial regulations, the results will probably come from voluntary environmental action, but without leaving too many illusions as to the share that will be reserved for the protection of nature and biodiversity, despite the almost unanimous position reached at the first reading by the european parliament in support of an ambitious european policy.
this would be all the more difficult given that, with the announced reduction in the number of european civil servants, there is little hope that the environment dg will increase its staff.
we say very clearly that this is not the right approach, because the european level remains the most relevant and the safest for dealing with environmental issues.
in our view, this strategy of renationalizing environmental policies would be a sign of the slow disintegration of the european idea.
each member state that wants to take the initiative would then be free to play the lisbon strategy and thus become an outstanding competitor - and we know very well that competition is generally synonymous with environmental degradation - or to claim sustainable development, which requires a global approach, which is the opposite of competition.
we also know how much the environmental label is used to justify many of the destructive environmental problems.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the trap we refuse to fall into because it would be the negation of all european environmental successes.
if there is a visible policy, identified, recognised and appreciated by the european citizens, it is the one we have succeeded in putting in place for the protection of the environment.
we all know that life must be able to cope with emergencies and implement policies for the restoration of our environment.
the 100 million drawn from the financial perspective and for which we demand, commissioner, that it be returned in full to the environment will not be enough.
european policy must not in any way compensate for the failure of the member states in the field of the environment and we refuse to give them a blank cheque, as you will have understood.
that is why we tabled the same amendment together to ensure the continuity of funding for the work of your environment dg, pending an agreement of course.
in conclusion, mr president, i would say that the ball is now in the court of the council and the commission and that we are convinced that we will reach an agreement between each other to ensure the continuation of this ambitious environmental policy.
i would like to remind you of the full support that our group gives to mrs isler-béguin's report and welcome the agreement reached by our political groups on an ambitious strategy to consolidate the only direct financial instrument for european environmental policies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the european union must not be content to be a cash drawer, it must be the driving force behind this environmental policy!
it is about our credibility with the citizens after the statements in the future sustainable development strategy.
it is clear that member states must be guaranteed the level of funding they expect, while at the same time requiring that the selection of projects be in line with this dual logic, the european dimension and meaningful environmental practice.
because environmental policy is one of the most widely understood and read european policies by european citizens.
life+ is an indispensable financial instrument for all our environmental policies.
we vote from session to session for strong environmental commitments in the framework of sustainable development while life+ is reduced to a shell of grief.
otherwise we will be faced with a setback in our environmental policy, and you know that.
let us use all the resources we have to look at all the causes of this disease, whether environmental, social or genetic, and to look for innovative treatments.
the commission and the council must therefore hear our warning and waste no more time.
the european union is facing a series of challenges: energy crisis, crisis of confidence, world conflicts, increasing poverty and insecurity, while europeans are expressing ever greater expectations of the european union.
for the socialists, the minimum was to restore the gap for all the policies we want, and especially for the lisbon objectives and the göteborg policies, without forgetting employment, solidarity, the environment and rural development.
(applause from the left)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to emphasize what the citizens have learned from this informal summit in lahti: the visit of the russian president at a particularly tense time in relations between europe and russia, both on the energy strategy and on human rights, following the murder of russian journalists in recent days.
on the energy issue, the russian president made it clear that he did not reject the principles of the energy charter and that he would be in favour of a document which would take up the principles while revising some of its provisions.
i believe that this will be the whole point of the strategic partnership between the european union and russia which will be negotiated in the near future and of the european energy summit proposed by president chirac for next year.
president barroso, without forgetting them, defended europe's energy rights.
secondly, mr putin is perfectly right to want to retain a certain sovereignty over his country's energy resources and to refuse to sell them to the appetites of the multinational oil companies in the name of a liberalism whose philosophy he does not share.
(the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this toxic waste affair is a criminal act, as if the south were the garbage of the north.
the union does have legislation on the transport of toxic waste: export has been prohibited since 1997 under the basel convention.
the few citizens who are interested in our debates will hardly understand why a debate on pollution in côte d'ivoire is being mixed up this afternoon with another on a case law that upsets the principle of subsidiarity.
the fact that the judgment of 13 september 2005 was delivered on an environmental directive does not change that.
yes, there is pollution, ladies and gentlemen, there is a real judicial pollution of the european treaties by the luxembourg court!
at a time when the rise in raw materials and energy is creating natural inflationary tensions in the world, we must reflect on the impact of this situation on our internal market and our common currency, and seriously ask ourselves whether the time has not come to transform the euro from a remarkable technical achievement into a political currency.
this is particularly the case for education, training, research and sustainable development.
this is not understandable or acceptable, even though there are more and more warning signs and the forecasts point to a 50% increase in co2 emissions by 2030, which runs counter to the objectives set, as our institution regularly points out.
there is a very broad consensus in the european union, with the etuc (european trade union confederation) supporting very ambitious targets to combat climate change.
i believe that this is a very important programme and i hope that the funds mobilised under this programme should be used primarily to complete this link - i was not unaware of the technical and environmental difficulties which i believe are insurmountable.
it reveals the fragility of the european energy system and the lack of electricity generation and transmission capacity, the result of a poor investment policy.
this decline in investment is a direct consequence of the liberalisation of the energy market.
only a european energy policy could guarantee good cooperation between member states and the necessary investments of around €700 billion by 2030. electricity is a public good: this must be reflected in political initiatives of the european union.
perhaps it is time to take stock of the results of this policy and ask whether the dismantling of public services, the deregulation of the labour market, the reduction of public spending, are really sustainable engines of growth in the euro area and in the european union.
as for energy, despite the chronic instability of oil-producing areas, despite the gas blackmail of a neighbouring country, despite global warming, despite widespread power cuts in half of europe, nothing is done, the answer is still the same: complete the liberalised and deregulated internal energy market in europe.
if this continues, as the price of raw materials and energy soars across the planet, we will have zero inflation and zero growth with manufacturers eventually settling in the dollar zone.
mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as rapporteur, let me thank the non-attached rapporteurs from the various groups and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their willingness to support a collective effort to improve the commission's proposal.
the quality of the marine ecosystem plays a fundamental role in the overall environment of the planet and, in particular, a very important regulatory role in the climate.
but our seas and oceans are under increasing pressure and worrying pollution.
first of all, let us remember this figure: 80% of marine pollution comes from land and as you said, commissioner, it is obvious that there is a direct link between the water framework directive and the directive you have presented and which our parliament wishes to improve.
but if pollution comes from the land through water, it also comes through the atmosphere.
recent studies show a large interaction between atmospheric movements, air pollution and the sea and oceans, so that urbanization and human activities occurring far from the coast can have a direct impact on water quality.
pollution is also generated by activities related to the exploitation of the oceans and seas, such as transport and aquaculture.
the waste from fishing and oil activities reached, in some sectors, quite excessive and dangerous levels a few years ago.
there is a great deal of international debate about carbon dioxide storage.
our directive is based on the first point: the restoration of the good ecological condition of the seas.
secondly, our parliament wants the good ecological status of the seas and oceans to be defined much more precisely so that it is not a wishful thinking and that we come as close as possible to what can be done to restore life and balance to the ecosystem.
thirdly, our parliament wants the deadlines to be shorter and in any case to strike a good balance between the deadlines, the level of environmental requirements and the obligation to deliver results.
finally, we want territorial cohesion to be strengthened by good work at the level of the marine and sub-marine regions, without however relieving the member states of their responsibilities in relation to the objectives set by the management plans and the plans for measures to restore good ecological status.
some european citizens see this failure as a negative consequence of energy liberalisation, others see it as a failure of interconnections and the transeuropean energy network.
if the failure is of a technical nature or due to a procedural defect, then better coordination is needed between the energy transmission system operators, as they are the operational links of smooth and secure energy exchanges.
the creation of a european energy networks centre would make it possible to establish a european network code to harmonise the standards and procedures of the member states' networks.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to thank the speakers who all expressed the european parliament's interest in this sesar project, which will have a very beneficial impact on air transport, but also on environmental quality and energy savings.
the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by mrs maría sornosa martínez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 76/769/eec on the limitation of the placing on the market of certain measuring devices containing mercury (com (2006) 0069 - c6-0064/2006 - 2006/0018 (cod)) (a6-0287/2006).
i welcome the adoption at first reading of the report by mrs lienemann on the marine environment strategy directive, a key directive which forms part of the continuity of the water framework directive (wfd).
the knowledge of the marine environment is not yet sufficient to make an effective assessment of the environmental situation of european seas in a short time.
in addition, the marine environment has a particularly high inertia.
if this continues, as the price of raw materials and energy soars across the planet, we will have zero inflation and zero growth with manufacturers eventually settling in the dollar zone.
and shared challenges demand shared solutions, whether they relate to growth and jobs in an increasingly competitive world, climate change, energy security or, indeed, international terrorism.
this will also reinforce our efforts in areas where we have already exerted leadership, notably in the debate on a future international climate change regime.
we have also laid the groundwork in many other areas that concern us all – sustainable development, maritime policy, and energy efficiency, to name just a few.
we need to move forward on immigration and innovation policy and we still have important proposals to adopt in areas like labour law, copyright levies, neighbourhood policy, co2 emissions from cars and emissions trading.
first, energy.
building on our green paper and measures for greater energy efficiency earlier this year, we will present the first ever strategic energy review for europe.
this will include the building blocks for an integrated european union energy policy, for example measures to complete the internal market for electricity and gas; to accelerate take-up of new low-carbon technologies; and to diversify and secure supplies both within and outside europe.
the goal is a common european energy policy that will ensure our security of supply, while maintaining europe’s competitiveness and safeguarding our environmental objectives.
closely linked to this – in fact i could say they are two parts of the same agenda – will be action on climate change.
we will put forward options for a european union climate change policy and perspectives for international cooperation post-kyoto.
a revision of the european union emissions trading scheme will provide greater stability for investments and accelerate the momentum to cut greenhouse gases.
so we can conclude the work on decisions that were already in the pipeline but also launch new, very important, projects for the work of europe, such as energy policy.
for the first time we have the chance to have a real common approach to energy, to be more ambitious in the fight against climate change, to look at the entire field of justice and at the fight against illegal migration.
(applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
our group nevertheless welcomes the six priority areas defined by your commission for 2007. i shall not go into the list of these priority areas, but i would like to stress certain points, including the energy question.
the increasing dependence of the european union on energy is something that must now be taken into account, and this is all the more true since the breakdown we experienced last week.
the union will have to look for other ways of reducing the negative effects of energy dependence.
our group believes that energy efficiency, increased use of renewable energy and a structured dialogue with the producing and consuming countries will help to achieve this objective.
some studies indicate that the european union could create one million direct and indirect jobs in the energy efficiency sector.
we also ask the commission to continue to play a leading role in the fight against global warming, which has consequences not only on the strictly environmental level but also on the economic and social level.
in the field of the ecology-energy partnership, which the commission is calling for and which this parliament will certainly support, we must anticipate what the means of doing so will be, and the means of doing so are not only the capacity in terms of the powers that the constitution has said we have, but also the capacity in budgetary terms, the capacity in terms of taxation.
finally, on behalf of my colleague chris davies, who cannot speak because he is attending another meeting, i would like to say to you, commissioners, that on behalf of our group - alde - we are partially satisfied with the proposals on the environment, but that, as with the previous point on the structural funds, we are waiting for implementation, we are waiting for acts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the community's energy policy is based on three pillars: security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability.
energy efficiency contributes to the achievement of these three main objectives of community energy policy.
it is also important to improve competitiveness in the european union by developing new energy efficiency technologies, strengthening the position of the union industry in the field of energy-efficient products and services, and reducing energy costs for businesses and public authorities.
in order to achieve the targets, environmental sustainability must also be promoted by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other negative environmental impacts from the use of certain forms of energy.
energy efficiency and energy saving can be seen as both a cornerstone of community energy policy and a priority objective to which the council has long been committed.
this commitment is well illustrated by the legislative and other measures recently adopted or to be adopted in the council conclusions on energy efficiency and energy saving and in the presidency conclusions adopted by the european council in march and june 2006. as regards research and development, the council would draw the attention of the honourable member to the proposal for the seventh framework programme, which has been the subject of intensive discussions between the european parliament and the council.
energy efficiency is one of the energy objectives to be promoted.
particular attention will be paid to the coordination of energy efficiency and smart energy use aspects in the framework programme and in other community policies and programmes.
the smart energy programme, which is part of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, has a larger budget and therefore better opportunities to implement concrete measures in the field of energy efficiency.
among the legislative and other measures recently adopted or soon to be adopted, the 2005 directive of the european parliament and of the council on ecodesign requirements for energy-using products and the 2006 directive of the european parliament and of the council on energy end-use efficiency and energy services are particularly noteworthy.
these two ambitious acts, together with the actions listed in the energy efficiency action plan adopted by the commission, will contribute to the realisation of the 20% energy saving potential by 2020 proposed by the commission.
the council meeting on 23 november will discuss in principle the commission document energy efficiency action plan - realising the potential and adopt council conclusions on this commission document.
mr president, climate change has become increasingly important not only in the european union's internal debates but also in its relations with third countries, and it was significant, for example, that climate issues were also mentioned in the declaration of the asem summit.
the european council will also be discussing climate policy at the european council next spring.
the international energy agency has estimated that global energy consumption would have increased by about one third over the past 30 years had measures not been taken to increase energy efficiency.
it shows that energy efficiency measures have a detrimental effect on the growth of energy use and therefore their implementation is important.
as regards the union, there are significant differences between member states in the extent to which energy efficiency measures have already been implemented or not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is aware that iceland has announced that it will resume commercial whaling despite the moratorium on whaling by the international whaling commission (iwc) which has been in force since 1984. this was discussed at the environment council on 23 october under the agenda item 'other matters'.
the additional preferences granted under the latter strand arise from the conviction that development can only be envisaged in close connection with the process of democratisation and respect for human rights, labour law and the environment.
but for gsp+ to really contribute to better governance and greater respect for the environment, human rights and labour, it must be managed effectively, which means firstly warning the many countries that still do not respect their commitments and, above all, moving from the enchanting threats to the effective removal of the preferences granted to those who seriously and systematically violate ilo conventions and do not honour their obligations.
the commission, in accordance with its fundamental role, has tried to put the preparations on a sustainable footing by making constructive arguments at the height of the debate in parliament and in the council.
with the downward harmonisation of social, environmental and consumer protection rules, the european social model is being undermined.
the text voted on today in strasbourg commits us to this, while providing the necessary guarantees on the safeguarding of public services of general interest and on the sustainability of our social acquis and our labour law.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the council on the european initiative in the field of civil protection, by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, gerardo galeote, on behalf of the committee on regional development, and joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0115/2006) (b6-0442/2006).
if, in the face of future disasters, which unfortunately are likely to occur in 2007, as in the past, the european union is present on the ground to respond to human suffering, to reduce the material, technical and ecological impacts, it will appear to the world to be more solidary and much more concrete.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in order to develop concrete cooperation, four meetings of the eu-russia permanent partnership council at ministerial level in the fields of transport, environment, justice and home affairs and in the foreign ministers' configuration were held during the autumn.
the eu and russia also noted the strong common interest and mutual dependence in energy relations.
the european union has stressed the principles of transparency, predictability, reciprocity and openness in energy markets, investment and transit infrastructure.
the union stressed that the parties should ensure their commitment to the principles of the energy charter.
the environmental dialogue, which was strengthened at the eu-russia environmental partnership council in october, lays the foundations for a broad-based cooperation.
in addition, the northern dimension focuses on issues specific to the northern regions, such as the vulnerable environment, indigenous peoples and health.
the existing partnerships in the northern dimension, namely the environmental and social and health partnerships, are to be continued and further developed.
the aim is to explore the possibilities of applying the partnership model to the transport and logistics sector and to strengthen cooperation in the field of energy efficiency.
this was the third eu meeting with president putin this year, following the one in sochi in may and the dinner in lahti, which gave us a good opportunity to speak about energy issues.
on energy, president putin confirmed that the energy charter treaty would not be ratified as it stands, but he also clearly expressed willingness to come to a deal that would respect the interests of both sides and include the principles of the energy treaty, as he said in sochi.
we need his energy, but we don't need someone who's always making fun of us.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- recommendation for second reading on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision on the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) (12032/2/2006 - c6-0318/2006 - 2005/0043 ((cod)) - committee on industry, research and energy (rapporteur: jerzy buzek) (a6-0392/2006); - report by philippe busquin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in the implementation of the seventh framework programme of the european community and laying down the rules for the dissemination of research results (2007-2013) (com (2005) 0305 - c6-0705/2006 (cod)) - the report by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in the implementation of the seventh framework programme of the european atomic energy community and laying down the rules for the dissemination of research results (2007-2011) (com (2006) 0042 - c6-0080/2006 - 2006/0014 (cns)) (a6-0305/2006); - the report by mrs angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme 'ideas' implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2013) of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (com (2005) 0441 - c6-0382/2005 - 2005/0186 (cns)) (a6-0369/2006); - the report by mr vittorio prodi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme 'capacities' implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2013) of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (com (2005) 0443 - c6-0384/2005 - 2005/0188 (cns)) (a6-0371/2006); - the report by mrs teresa riera madurell, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme 'cooperation' implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2013) of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (com (2005) 0440 - c6-0381/2005 - 2005/0185 (cns)) (a6-0379/2006); - the report by mr david hammerstein mintz, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision concerning a specific programme to be implemented by means of direct actions by the joint research centre under the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013) (com (2005) 0439 - c6-0380/2005 - 2005/0184 (cns)) (a6-0335/2006); - the report by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented by means of direct actions by the joint research centre under the seventh framework programme (2007-2011) of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (com (2005) 0444 - c6-0385/2005 - 2005/0189 (cns)) (a6-0357/2006) and - the report by mr umberto guidoni, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2001) of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (com (2005) 0454 - c6-038/2005 - 2005/0619 (cns)) (com (2005) 0336/2005)
member of the commission.
secondly, the strengthened focus on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, to which more than half the energy priority budget will be devoted.
i am particularly satisfied with the level of attention to be paid to energy efficiency in all thematic priorities.
thirdly, the redistribution of the budget in favour of the cooperation, ideas and people programmes and, within the cooperation budget, in favour of health, energy, socio-economic sciences and humanities, and security.
let me just mention as an example of our strong cooperation the agreement reached on renewables and energy efficiency.
in particular, i agree to the request regarding the role that the jrc could play in providing a sustainable energy reference system and information on the reliability of the energy supply for europe, as well as on the availability of renewable energy resources.
many amendments have a special meaning for me, as they remind me of each of you, from mr liese’s interest in children’s disease to ms riera madurell’s and ms gutiérrez-cortines’s strong support for cultural heritage; from mr prodi’s strong defence of the european technology platforms to mr hammerstein mintz’s and mr turmes’s attention to renewable energy sources, and mr busquin’s strong support for the guarantee fund, to mention just a few.
as regards the rules for the participation of the european atomic energy community in the seventh framework programme, my approach has been to work closely with mr busquin, rapporteur on the rules of the conventional rdp, in order to maintain the similarity of these two texts and thereby to take advantage of the codecision procedure.
the compromise amendments which we are proposing to you are therefore the result of discussions between the commission, the council and parliament on mr busquin's report, and are adapted to the field of atomic energy.
the aim of this amendment is to ensure that the other activities planned under the fusion energy thematic area are implemented and managed separately from the joint undertaking, so that researchers can develop their creative potential.
this report on the rules of participation is designed to provide support at european level for research activities in the field of atomic energy, with the hope of removing the technological barriers to nuclear energy and, above all, of fulfilling the promise of fusion for the energy production of the future.
as regards the direct actions of the joint research centre, it should be noted that its expertise has been extended to areas of high political and public interest, such as the development of alternatives to animal testing, social welfare, sustainable agriculture and environmental protection.
in the field of atomic energy, we want the joint research centre to play a greater role in raising awareness and training on nuclear energy.
the specific cooperation programme must address social, economic and environmental challenges with themes such as health, energy, the environment and climate change.
the adoption of priorities linked to life such as health, energy and the environment, support for ict, the cross-cutting impact of all eu policies and the inclusion of smes, the driving force of competitiveness, are all positive developments, which are better guaranteed by the risk-sharing fund.
we have to build on a positive climate which i think we have in europe.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
this report is a key contribution to achieving the objectives set by the revised lisbon strategy to make europe the most competitive area in the world by focusing on growth and jobs, while maintaining the balance between the three pillars of the process, economy, social and environment.
i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr saccon, and mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the shadow rapporteurs, and many other representatives who have worked actively to find common solutions.
the regulation will significantly improve the protection of human health and the environment.
today's debate is the last stage in a long journey, the goal of which will be to make great progress in health, in the environment and - i would like to add this explicitly - in the competitiveness of european industry.
i am even hopeful that this major project will set standards in environmental and health policy worldwide.
i would also like to thank mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, who has guided us through the extremely difficult and sometimes arduous trilogue processes.
we have also improved information for consumers; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
it has always been a misconception - although this misconception has been propagated by some environmental organisations - that reach is a problem of european large-scale industry.
the commission believes that a balance has been struck between competitiveness on the one hand and the necessary progress on the environment and health on the other, and therefore supports the proposal on the table.
it may well be that the greater part of the difficulty lies ahead of us, for this will be a law which will require a great deal of attention, creativity and energy in its application.
if we continue to work together on this issue in the future, we will surely succeed - i am convinced of this - in creating a model for how we can achieve our european vision of combining a strong, efficient, job-saving industrial base with high standards, the highest possible standards for the environment and for the health of our citizens!
the agreement aims to improve health and environmental protection and to promote innovation and industrial competitiveness.
the commission therefore supports the package of compromise proposals agreed between the council and parliament on 30 november 2006. i would like to thank the presidency and the minister, mr pekkarinen, and of course the european parliament, the committee on the environment, its chairman, mr florenz, and especially the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, for the considerable efforts and determination which have brought this proposal to a successful conclusion.
this will also improve the health of citizens and prevent environmental damage, which is not only costly to treat and manage but often irreversible.
for industry, reach means a general responsibility to avoid adverse effects on health and the environment from the production, use and sale of chemicals.
reach promised, just a few weeks ago, to be a sign of real ambition for europe: the european union was going to have legislation that finally put public health and the environment above short-term economic calculations; finally, it required firms to take account of the social cost of their race to competitiveness.
today, it is the turn of public health and the environment to be affected.
mr president, we know that chemicals can be dangerous and have catastrophic effects on health and the environment.
that is why i regret today that the long discussions have led to a compromise which fell short of our expectations and short of the vote in the committee on the environment.
i would like to highlight the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
for this reason, i hope that the member states and professional federations, but also ngos, will create an environment which will enable smes to meet the requirements of this legislation, while contributing to the achievement of its objectives.
in addition, since this legislation applies to imported products, it must be applied in third countries, which will also have to commit themselves to the design and development of chemicals which respect human health and the environment.
mr president, with reach, all of us together, and guido sacconi, our rapporteur, we had raised a great hope: to rid our environment of persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic chemicals that poison our health and nature.
the project to regulate chemicals had awakened the ecological and social awareness of europeans, and even beyond our borders.
in this sense, a huge amount of work in dialogue with civil society - trade unions, ngos, companies and industry - has brought together the need to improve public health and the quality of the environment and to ensure that citizens and workers are informed about the chemicals around us.
unfortunately, despite an encouraging message from our committee on the environment, the compromises being made will weaken this reach project.
reach will change our relationship with chemical pollution dramatically: by reversing the burden of proof, first; by systematic information along the chain, second.
i believe that as a result of this work we will be doing a great service to our children and grandchildren, to nature, to the environment and to all that we live in.
i have already offered the chairman of the environment committee to come to the committee in february and report in detail on the measures that the commission has either already taken or is planning to take with regard to the implementation of reach.
the commission supports the compromise amendments, which, on the one hand, aim to make significant improvements in the protection of human health and the environment and, on the other, to enhance innovation and maintain economic growth.
the vote last october in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety may have raised hopes for an even more ambitious result, as mr bowis said.
nevertheless, as mrs roth-behrendt underlined, a compromise is a compromise and this compromise package is a marked improvement for the protection of health and the environment if we compare it to the current situation.
the modernisation of the european customs environment is an essential contribution to attaining the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
the modernised community customs code will provide the legal framework for the development of a simple and paperless environment for customs and trade based on the best use of information and communication technology.
this means that the code has not kept pace with the radical changes to the environment in which customs and traders operate, particularly in respect of the rapid and irreversible adoption of electronic data exchange.
the customs code has to be adapted to fit the electronic environment.
indeed, the customs environment is undergoing major changes.
however, in the context of the single market and the electronic environment, this monopoly no longer has any place.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the reassessment of the sums allocated to this reform, which should make it possible to ensure the sustainability of the sector, particularly in the outermost regions where bananas play a fundamental economic and social role that no other agricultural production can compensate for.
if the opening up of markets can help to boost production structures, it can only do so if the fundamental principles of regulation and fairness are met, namely the respect by the various producers of common rules which place them on an equal commercial footing, an equality which is clearly totally absent from world trade today, given the gap between the social and environmental standards of european countries and those of central and latin american countries.
the sustainability of the european banana sector also depends on its ability to optimise its production costs while respecting social rules and farmers' living standards.
the transfer of the funds to the posei programmes is not accompanied by a renewal of this system of advances, endangering the survival of the producers who would then be forced to borrow privately, even though the uncertainty characterising the business environment in this sector does not encourage banks to grant long-term loans.
overseas banana producers are waiting for a clear signal about the sustainability of the sector, to restore confidence in it.
without the banana, which provides 15 000 jobs and is the economic backbone of these regions in terms of human, social and environmental needs, the whole of guadeloupe and martinique's agriculture would be threatened with extinction, in the absence of alternative production.
pollution, from whatever source, somehow returns to nature.
this is therefore likely to be harmful to human health and the environment.
we have taken account of the timing of the launch of the new programmes, while giving priority to the actions essential for european socialists: research, transport, innovation policies, social europe, environmental europe, knowledge europe, in short, a people's europe.
the euro 5 standard, by establishing harmonised rules for the construction of motor vehicles with regard to their emissions to air, is part of a more general strategy to address the harmful effects of air pollution on health and the environment.
this project did not withstand pressure from certain chemical industry lobbies, strongly echoed in the european parliament, which preferred to assert economic constraints at the expense of environmental protection and public health in order to obtain less restrictive legislation, in particular on substitution.
this agreement on reach will provide better protection for health and the environment and our european industry will have to be more responsible while remaining competitive on the global market.
this system must reduce the risks to our health and the environment and encourage innovation and support for economic activities that do not pollute.
nevertheless, this compromise, the result of three years of preparation and difficult negotiations, is a delicate but necessary balance between the need to protect health and the environment and the competitiveness of enterprises.
at first reading, we voted against the reach regulation on chemicals, considering that the amendments adopted did not allow us to achieve the balance announced between the three objectives of this regulation: protection of health and the environment, competitiveness and innovation and substitution of dangerous substances by alternative products that are less harmful or harmless.
the compromise text voted this morning is thus very inadequate in terms of environmental and consumer protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the relocation of workers creates a climate of social insecurity which is detrimental to social progress.
transport is responsible for a large part of environmental pollution and has a major impact on climate change.
i would like to make a few remarks in the light of the next summit and i hope that the energy i can put into it will reach you.
this would be a first step towards energy efficiency and not bad for the summit.
secondly, the climate policy.
wonderful, hans-gert, i see you have arrived in the climate reality.
we agree here in europe to reduce co2 emissions and then we agree to a stability pact.
i hear you want to decide 20% renewable energy from 2012. there you go.
the summit can really become a summit, and it can be a good summit if a little more energy is put into it and less flowery words, but real action!
as for climate change, i would say this: it is urgent, it is the major challenge of this century, it requires the commitment of all and we must put aside our differences.
secondly, the energy question.
this dossier is mainly concerned with the protection of the environment against marine pollution.
the absolute requirement to respect the objective of maximum maritime safety once again prevailed in this case, as did the reduction of the risks of pollution by oil.
the risks of pollution are many and can be of various kinds.
while the new double hull legislation is a significant step forward in the prevention of marine pollution, standards must continue to be established to enable tankers and merchant ships to offer the greatest number of guarantees.
the committee on international trade, having noted the european union's significant backwardness, in consumption of course, but also in the production of biofuels, naturally proposes to develop imports, but also to pay attention to european industrial production in a dual objective of energy independence of the union and outlets for agricultural products, for example sugar plants.
that is why we propose that for a given period an acceptable rate of penetration of bioethanol imports into the union should be defined so that this is compatible with the progressive development of community production, in line with the european strategy for sustainable development.
madam president, the experiments in liberalising the energy sector have all led to price increases and a deterioration in the quality of the service provided.
in the union, liberalisation and the separation of energy producers and distributors has led to under-investment in generation units and electricity transmission networks.
in this context, there is an urgent need to accelerate investment in research in all fields, including nuclear, to meet the challenge of the post-oil era and combat greenhouse gases.
there is an urgent need to put an end to the obligation to separate energy producers from energy transmission networks and to stop all measures to liberalise the energy sector.
that is why i am in favour of the creation of a european energy agency to coordinate the energy policies of the member states and their research and development efforts.
it would bring together all the companies producing and distributing electricity and ensure that everyone has access to energy at reasonable costs.
energy is not a commodity like any other, it is a common good of mankind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two points on the occasion of this joint debate on energy.
firstly, the european union has no competence in energy matters.
this is so true that the various reports emphasize that the energy choices of the member states are their exclusive competence.
secondly, the europe of brussels has already shown what it is capable of by usurping the right to conduct an energy policy and liberalizing the electricity and gas markets.
increased prices for consumers, the question of tariff equalization, and therefore of the public service, supply interruptions, concerns about the maintenance, extension and modernization of networks ... today we are witnessing an accelerated concentration of the sector, to the point that the famous competition you keep telling us about is very close to becoming a monopoly of the energy market by a handful of multinational companies.
so yes, we are in favour of energy security, energy efficiency, but it is up to sovereign states to manage these strategic matters.
this morning parliament is also proposing an ambitious report on biomass and biofuels, which are important elements for the union's energy independence and for the fight against climate change.
however, the overall energy efficiency of biomass will have to be measured.
finally, i would have liked a stronger message from parliament on the european commission's green paper, particularly on the efforts needed to reduce energy consumption in buildings and transport.
another example: we have once again ignored the debate on nuclear energy.
we must recognize that nuclear power is part of the energy mix, that it contributes to the fight against climate change and, moreover, that we have world-renowned expertise in this field.
i would also like to stress the need to encourage the grouping of network operators to create a european code to control the security of energy transmission networks.
finally, as private individuals face the opening up of the energy market, it is time to look at the role of regulators and to develop internal market guidelines to control prices.
energy is a vital need: it is essential that european citizens, especially the poorest, have access to this universal service!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the serious power outage in germany on 4 november has shown - if need be - that energy security is a european concern and that it is at european level that we must find solutions.
europe is increasingly being looked to for a balance between energy supply and demand, which is increasingly subject to the volatility of suppliers and the tensions resulting from the highly unequal geographical distribution of resources.
i congratulate her on the excellent work she has done and i am pleased that on such an important and sensitive issue there has been a broad consensus within the committee on industry, research and energy and, above all, that the strong idea that the three objectives of security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability are both major and inseparable has been highlighted.
the same is true of the need to diversify the energy mix by means of the three pillars of fossil fuels, nuclear energy and renewable energy.
for the first time, we have the opportunity to tackle the challenge of growth and the challenge of protecting nature simultaneously, in a context of growing concern about the damage caused by greenhouse gas emissions.
i therefore support in particular the amendment which, taking into account the serious environmental concerns, proposes an overall target in terms of the percentage of non-carbon energies.
energy policy gives us an opportunity to do so.
i think that mr langen's report on a strategy for biomass and biofuels describes well the full range of costs and benefits of using renewable energy.
firstly, although renewable energies can help reduce the european union's energy dependence, we must simultaneously reflect more broadly on our energy consumption and, therefore, on our lifestyles and production methods in order to consume better, but above all less energy.
secondly, we should not engage in an intensive and productivist cultivation of renewable energy sources, which would have harmful environmental, economic and social consequences and would not be in line with the european strategy for sustainable development.
finally, the supply, distribution and marketing of agricultural and forestry raw materials and energy produced at local market level must be organised and improved, avoiding excessive transport times.
i would like to congratulate mrs morgan on her initiative to draw up a report on the green paper presented by the commission on a european strategy for secure, competitive and sustainable energy.
we must now answer the key questions for the future of europe: how can we guarantee secure energy supplies at predictable and affordable prices, especially for the most deprived citizens?
i had to abstain on the final vote, however, because i think that the proposal for total ownership unbundling of the energy networks will not allow these questions to be properly answered, particularly those concerning investment and security of supply.
as vice-chair of the eu-central asia delegation, i am concerned about the call for increased energy supplies from central asian producers such as kazakhstan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan.
i am voting against this report which, under the pretext of sustainable development and energy security, proposes a new stage of liberalisation and competition in a sector where the public service should, on the contrary, be consolidated.
the report states the need to increase the separation between the actors responsible for the marketing of energy and the owners and operators of networks, emphasising further the difference imposed for the ownership of these two areas.
i cannot support such a policy of privatisation and total competition which causes an increase in the price of energy, does not guarantee the reduction of consumption and the development of renewable energies and increases inequalities between territories and citizens.
i congratulate my colleague eluned morgan on her own-initiative report on the european strategy for secure, competitive and sustainable energy.
the report includes significant progress on the social side, including easier access to energy for the poorest, and on the environmental side.
whatever hopes are placed in biomass and biofuels, they can only be a partial solution to the problems of our countries' energy dependence and the production of clean and renewable energy.
secondly, because the overall carbon footprint is not necessarily as positive as we are led to believe.
the potential of these energy sources must be exploited, but not at the expense of food production, the existence of forests, biodiversity, other uses of these products, for the wood industry or other sectors, or the progress that can be expected from research into new motorizations or hydrogen.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.