i have in mind one area which i understand is not subject to wto discussions: energy.
the multiplier effect is going to mean that the pace of climate change is going to accelerate and there is little we can do.
when you read the european environment agency reports that glaciers in switzerland retreated by 10% in one year alone, in 2003, you think that maybe he has a point, that we are just not realising what is happening.
here we are in this fantastic palace of energy use, debating what might be the end of civilisation.
let us not pretend that the emissions trading scheme is somehow going to curb aviation emissions to a great extent.
we in the committee on industry, research and energy have long been aware of this situation and have been debating the need for measures to address this dependence.
ten years ago, i submitted a report to parliament on prospects for gas supply in europe and was criticised by the industry for suggesting that we could become over-dependent on gas if it provided over 25% of our energy requirements.
never let it be forgotten that our actions affect human beings out there in the real world, beyond our cloistered environment.
the technology exists; it needs to be improved and adapted; that needs research and technical support, and i hope the commission will look again more generously at that aspect of reform and do more to assist the wider use of sugar, both as an environmental measure and as a way of compensating european sugar producers for the loss of revenue they face from these proposals.
according to the peer-reviewed article about to appear in the scientific journal environmental health perspectives, which was mentioned by mr maaten, these values will bring no improvement for the quality of fresh water at all.
equally relevant is compliance with the urban waste water treatment directive.
however, the people do want a europe that deals with jobs, economic growth, the environment, and cooperation in fighting crime and terrorism.
sustainable development must take higher prominence across all of our policy areas, and i am glad that this report provides a starting point on how to achieve this and am glad to support it.
in my own country, scotland, we have a unique contribution to make in terms of renewable energy, with our vast natural potential offering us the opportunity to become europe's green powerhouse.
madam president, when the environment ministers of the mediterranean region met in november, they painted a very bleak picture of the management of water resources in the area and said that in years to come there are going to be significant water shortages.
this is not just an environmental issue, but a security issue.
the enp is therefore two-tracked: one lane promotes the values that underpin the european union, namely, a commitment to common values regarding the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, the promotion of good-neighbourly relations and the principles of market economy and sustainable development; the other entails sanctions for failing them by restricting aid or trade privileges.
several enp partner countries, such as azerbaijan and algeria, are rich in energy resources, as are the producers or transporters of oil and gas.
therefore, energy policy and eu energy security will be a key pillar of the enp.
the recent russia/ukraine gas crisis illustrates how energy policy and foreign policy now interface.
these elections take place in a highly challenging environment, which we certainly acknowledge.
the situation in the middle east remains a cause for concern, and is of direct relevance to us in europe given the energy dependence of the eu on foreign powers, much as my own scotland is in the happy situation of being a net exporter of energy.
the present emphasis on achieving growth at the expense of social inclusion, of working conditions and of environmental protection will not in any way lead us in the direction of greater gender equality.
nevertheless, we congratulate mrs vlasto and restate our commitment to the creation of an environment that encourages small businesses to flourish.
however, we support the report's direction in terms of increasing the energy crops premium and increasing the maximum guaranteed area for such production so as to encourage the promotion of biofuels.
6) greater flexibility and minimum conditions laws should be approved as a common set of minimum standards which gives the member states more flexibility and possibility to have a higher level of protection of security, health, environment, working conditions, social conditions and consumer protection.
we are facing many grave challenges: to democratise our near neighbourhood, especially former soviet republics currently at the mercy of russia’s energy politics; to ensure that the elections in belarus are free and fair; and to ensure that the referendums in kosovo and montenegro do not end in violence.
the eu’s foreign policy ambitions and pretensions now reach into every area, from defence to immigration to energy supply, and we see few positive results from this.
i was working entirely on the assumption that the reason we were calling for these declarations was that the member states would look into where the waste and fraud had come and, maybe, even corruption.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– mr president, the committee on industry, research and energy applauds the commission’s initiative to deregulate and liberalise package sizes.
but will this reduce congestion and emissions?
this legislation encourages smaller vehicles, creating greater congestion, emissions and expense.
this proposal is a sledgehammer to crack a nut and, just like the port services directive, it should be disposed of into the waste bin.
whether such violence occurs in a public environment or in a private environment should not be relevant in tackling such violence as a criminal offence.
yet there is, in my opinion, no climate of fear in havana, such as that i have witnessed in kashmir or, until recently, aceh.
it is not just about the number of chickens per square metre; it is also about the atmospheric conditions in the houses and whether there is straw or anything in them, so that the chickens have slightly better conditions during their very short lives.
as a pro-european, i think it very sad that we have had to waste time blocking ludicrous proposals like this.
i cannot overemphasise the need for proper building insulation and, as my colleague just said, the need to stop the waste of energy in these enormous slab blocks in the eastern european countries that are now in the european union.
i apologise, on behalf of the united kingdom, that it has not been up to speed with other countries in these renewable energy, heating and cooling measures.
this report is to be welcomed by the industry and the european parliament and will ensure that we have safe and secure energy supplies in the future.
this report is good news for sustainable eu fisheries policy as it recognises the need to make sensitive use of access restrictions.
as a member of the international trade committee i have been pressing for social and environmental concerns to be taken into account in an era of globalisation and against the background of the rise of china, india and brazil.
whilst i therefore supported amendments to increase preferential access to the eu market for those third countries which have ratified and appropriately applied core international labour and environmental standards as an added incentive, i believe that the commission should work more closely with the ilo to investigate and inform itself of the observance and enforcement of these core standards in practice, so as to safeguard against future abuses of the new gsp+ system.
my own country, scotland, is potentially a world leader in renewable energy advantages, but because of domestic inaction we have not yet capitalised on this.
hence the country-of-origin principle, particularly in its original form in the proposed directive, is for me a bridge too far: it would be injurious to home-grown employment to permit service providers to operate in the host country of their choice without, unlike local providers, being subject to the same costly restraints in labour, consumer and environmental legislation.
it was last april, in the heat of the run-up to the french referendum vote, that the committee on industry, research and energy adopted mr chatzimarkakis’ opinion on the services directive.
the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, which took a liberal line, was supported by 34 votes to 6, by conservatives, liberals and even most of the socialists.
the problem is that when foreign investment is negotiated via bilateral investment treaties or as proposed by the wto at cancún, it can involve exploitation of the weaker partner and the waiving of environmental and social protection.
what is needed is a new international investment agreement under the auspices of the un commission on sustainable development.
since the unexpected victory of the new iranian president, mr. mahmoud ahmadinejad, an increasingly tense situation has emerged between iran and the international community, leading to a series of negotiations amongst member states over iran's desires for the development of nuclear energy.
i am gratified to see that the report acknowledges that the cap has ‘encouraged the development of non-sustainable production methods heavily dependent on water and energy’.
these include, in particular: the need for more recognition of the diversity of rural areas; greater clarity on the activities to which the individual axes are addressed; fuller attention under axis 1 to forestry, the fuel chain and renewable energy resources; additional detail under axis 2 as to the environmental goods to be promoted, including preservation of the cultural, as well as the natural, heritage; and a heavier emphasis under axis 3 on measures to improve the quality of life and social inclusion in rural areas in parallel with, and as an aspect of, maintaining and developing employment.
on a broader level, the committee wishes to stress the promotion of both sustainability and territorial cohesion with the need for an integrated approach that would embody appropriate spatial planning and foster coherence between the actions engendered by all sources of european funding.
nor must we lose sight of the fact that the core and single most important component for the development of rural regions is the maintenance of sustainable agriculture at the very heart of their economies.
there are four particular points that i want to support: first of all, the use of funds to encourage new entrants, to assist the essential transition of farm families from one generation to the next; secondly, the prioritisation of funding to allow for the modernisation of farms and help with meeting higher animal welfare and environmental standards; thirdly, maximum regional flexibility on the implementation of the rural development programme must be secured and built upon; and fourthly and finally, the proposal for village renewal and the preservation of rural heritage is vitally important in revitalising and sustaining the rural communities.
the rural economy has evolved over the years and there is now a heavy reliance on environmental projects.
this has created a climate which raises tensions.
i welcome mr kindermann's report on the implementation of the eu's forestry strategy because, although forestry is not actually dealt with in the treaties, there is a need for an eu action plan for sustainable forest management that provides a coherent framework for the implementation of forest-related actions and serves to coordinate community actions and the forestry policies of the member states, which is drawn up in close coordination with the member states and the various stakeholders concerned.
as someone who lives in one of the last important remaining oak forests in england, i am acutely aware of the need for sustainable forest management.
in the forest of dean, the forest provides a beautiful environment and a natural habitat, opportunities for recreation and tourism, potential for work and industrial realities, as well as a home for people to live in.
mr president, on 28 february in brussels four commissioners – those responsible for enterprise, the environment, competition and energy – presided over the first meeting of a high-level group to look at issues concerning energy, the environment and competitiveness.
around the table there were also four cabinet ministers, twelve chief executives of energy producers and energy users, three ngos, the chairman of the european trade union congress and three regulators.
it has also been discussed recently in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly social and environmental affairs committee.
the next item is the report by dimitrios papadimoulis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a rapid response and preparedness instrument for major emergencies (com(2005)0113 – c6- 0181/2005 – 2005/0052(cns)) (a6-0027/2006).
given the impact of climate change, we must accept that extreme events will continue, and with increasing frequency.
prevention is crucial and environmental concerns such as the sound management of natural resources like forests and wetlands are key tools in the evasion of disasters, lessening their impact on people, homes and livelihoods.
written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the report by marios matsakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the community strategy concerning mercury (2005/2050(ini)) (a6-0044/2006).
the outcome of the votes in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is a report that is the first step towards a coherent approach being taken towards mercury and the ultimate reduction of mercury levels in the environment.
if those businesses are forced to close, people will be unable to have their instruments properly repaired and they will potentially dispose of them straight into household waste, which would be in nobody's interests.
i am, however, completely in favour of legislation to protect the public from the highly toxic substance that mercury is, but the approach that we should take on environmental issues must be proportionate and it must be balanced.
barometers are made by only a small group of people in europe and those operators, who have an extremely good and safe working understanding of mercury and all the hazards it represents, are best placed to help reduce that pollution.
appropriate product safety warnings and the licensing of suitable establishments would enable the usage of mercury to be controlled and monitored and people could continue to use their barometers, as they have for centuries, without a threat to the environment or to health.
i welcome this report on the community strategy for dealing with the impact of mercury on the environment and on humans.
my grounds for voting the way i did on the matsakis report on a commission strategy for dealing with mercury in the environment are that the commission has identified the areas it wishes to investigate further before recommending further eu legislation/action.
the only sustainable balance to that competition is the creativity, innovation and commitment of european companies themselves, reinforced with the appropriate help from political authorities.
yet as we adjust to the new global environment we must avoid the populist appeal of protectionist measures which are at best a short-term panacea for long-term ills.
i am inclined to agree with the commissioner when he states that consumers should be more concerned about the mark-up enjoyed until now by retailers on goods produced cheaply in poor employment and environmental conditions and then sold below the cost of production.
we know that there are links between poor nutrition, poor housing, a poor environment – the poor often live in the worst environments – and poor educational prospects, which then follow through people’s lives and indeed those of their children.
first of all, there is the need for the commission to take a more wide-ranging view of measures to protect the marine environment and rebuild depleted fish stocks, in particular by studying factors other than over-fishing that may cause fish stocks to be depleted, such as pollution and global warming.
it seems to me that the other factors – such as global warming or pollution or whatever other factors may be evident – should now be the basis of your review of the cod recovery programme, which i am delighted that you have agreed to carry out.
we particularly endorse the references to biodiversity and to the need for action in relation both to ghost fishing and discards, as well as the call for the commission to continue to promote the adoption of an fao international plan of action on bycatch reduction.
i know of no one with any interest whatsoever in fisheries who would not support the principle of environmentally friendly fishing methods: the people with most to gain, after all, from protecting the marine environment and ensuring a balance between conservation and harvesting of fish stocks are the fishermen themselves.
however, there is much more to environmental protection than just technical measures, important as they will always be.
they are issues for the commission because the commission is going to be tested in this climate as a defender and guarantor of the treaties.
these need not be billed purely as economic policy summits; the demands of energy security, of peace in the middle-east and of fighting internationally organised crime are equally urgent and should be on next week’s agenda.
the austrian presidency opened to public scrutiny a recent environment council meeting; why not make this openness universal practice in the council?
we need to see a healthy environment too as a prerequisite for our economy.
the opportunities for business to innovate and meet the demands of the higher standards that we expect in our environment will stand them in good stead vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
we have the opportunity to lead the world on sustainability, on innovation, on eco-labelling and so forth, and i believe that is a challenge that the commission must take up with parliament.
lastly, let me give credit and pay tribute to the austrian presidency for the work it has been doing in both these areas, in relation both to a healthy people and a healthy environment, because that will lead to the healthy economy that lisbon can bring us all in the very near future.
i will be supporting this resolution, along with my colleagues in the socialist group and the labour delegation, but nevertheless i must point out a key omission in the section on energy policy, namely tidal power.
global warming pushes us away from conventional power, while safety and security concerns threaten nuclear power.
the severn scheme alone could supply nearly 10% of britain's energy needs.
– mr president, this resolution provides a vital opportunity for parliament to send a strong resolution to the parties meeting in brazil about the value that europe’s citizens place on the world’s natural resources and biodiversity.
a global network of protected forest areas must be established and funded, and countries must set measurable time-ban targets to ensure that the use, consumption and trade of biodiversity resources come only from sustainable sources.
we must devote time and energy and some resources to getting right the opportunities that are coming through the european courts for patient mobility.
i strongly support those amendments which refer to the seriousness of environmental pollution as a risk to health and a major source of concern for european citizens.
in this context, and less appreciated, is the vast potential supply of kazakh yellow cake uranium from mines coming onstream, which will be vital to supplying the eu’s future nuclear energy needs.
we have before us a blueprint for the future with its emphasis on knowledge, enterprise, jobs and energy.
this paper promises what previous annual policy strategies manifestly failed to provide: practical proposals for european renewal by creating legal migration channels and a common european asylum system – and their corollary of better border management – to provide the workers and security that europe needs; by fast-tracking a european energy policy; completing the internal market for energy and gas; investing in clean coal technologies; and balancing flexibility and social protection with the demands of markets to boost growth and competitiveness.
it puts the use of resources and environmental protection under the heading of solidarity.
it should put them under the heading of prosperity, because until we learn that the environment and green growth is part of prosperity rather than solidarity, we will not have the correct perspective on such matters.
you do that for example by the next debate on energy, by showing that we are working together in solidarity to face any threats that there may be.
as dumas wrote, ‘all for one and one for all’: we need the european grid of energy which can resist any attempt to pick off any one of our member states.
mrs wallström will agree with me that we must work hard to convince the public that we can get it right on chemicals and on pollution issues, eco-labelling and all those other things which would make sense to the public.
– mr president, i am delighted to be putting this question on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy.
it follows the question that was debated in january on the subject of security of supply of energy.
it is also welcome that energy matters have risen to the top of the agenda.
i should like to make the point that i was a little disappointed in the green paper – which we look forward to debating in full and due course – because perhaps not enough recognition was given to the crucial role of nuclear energy in providing the largest share of electricity in the european union.
parliament recently adopted an amendment seeking an ambitious but realistic target of 60% of electricity in the european union coming from ultra-low or non-carbon-emitting sources.
this is only possible with a combination of renewable energy sources and nuclear energy.
i note with great pleasure that the council conclusions refer to ‘sustainable and efficient energy systems’.
nuclear energy springs to my mind in that context.
however, there are other energy sources that we must remember.
we should not lose sight of the benefits and potential of clean coal technology when we have this significant indigenous energy source.
it places emphasis on the importance of researching and developing future energy technologies and it looks to proposals for improving energy efficiency in buildings.
finally, we look to the commission to weave into this issue of security of supply the related question of climate change and how we adjust our energy policy in a post-kyoto era to achieve our three aims of sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply.
(applause)
mr president, the eu’s shambolic liberalisation of the energy market has already resulted in gross distortions.
now the eu wants a common energy policy so it can get its hands on what remains of britain’s gas and oil reserves.
mr chichester asks how the council and commission will react to developments in the world energy market and how supplies will be secured: it is the right question, but it has been put to the wrong people.
britain should follow the example of france and germany and protect its own national interests and those of its domestic energy consumers.
energy has shot up the political agenda, but geo-political initiatives are only one part of tackling the security of supply problem.
we need to tackle the demand side of the equation by putting real effort into implementing energy efficiency measures and by developing indigenous sources of energy, particularly renewables.
this is underlined by the paragraphs on sustainable energy sources and amplified by a number of amendments which we in the alde group will be supporting.
mr president, energy security and diversification of the source of supply has dramatically risen up the political agenda this year following the use of the ‘gas weapon’ by gazprom against ukraine and moldova over the new year period.
it is no longer a technical matter confined to technocrats and has become as much a part of the cfsp as the remit of energy ministers.
i respect the anti-nuclear countries, such as austria and ireland, but new technologies such as transmutation, will, i believe, one day solve the long-term, high-radiation waste concerns of the general public.
obviously, a lot also needs to be done by the member states – preferably through intergovernmental cooperation – to work towards more energy efficiency, to develop more technologies in the form of renewables, but also to interconnect their electricity grids in a pan-european system, which will drive down prices and allow spare capacity.
i also believe russia must be encouraged to join the energy charter to prevent it from stopping third countries using its pipelines.
there is also a clear gap in that the international energy agency allows only for strategic oil reserves, not for gas reserves.
mr president, i welcome this resolution as a recognition that there is indeed an energy crisis in europe.
the single european energy market does not work.
we need to develop the common european energy policy.
since the encouraging noises that we heard in hampton court, i am afraid we have seen some disappointing new moves from the member states: their continuing failure to implement current existing legislation in this field; price-fixing in the energy market; new protectionism and the establishment of new national champions.
our first initial reaction must be one of disappointment: there are no new targets and no concrete proposals to establish a common energy policy.
this paper entirely ducks the issue of transport and aviation and their contribution to the energy debate.
as the international crisis group says, ‘everything from elections, to humanitarian assistance, to economic activity depends on establishing a secure environment’.
finally, i should like to draw attention to the cape town declaration of the joint parliamentary assembly in 2002. benchmarks were put in place there to assess the conduct and outcome of the negotiations on the basis of key social and environmental indicators, including decent work, health, education and gender.
do you want higher environmental standards but at a greater cost or not?
i should like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in particular the committee on women’s rights and gender equality – with whom we had enhanced cooperation, both officially and in practice – for their valuable opinions and for the many ideas they have also contributed to this report.
where there are no forests, then we can grow willows and miscanthus to make sure that we can produce energy supply.
when it comes to not only fuel but energy as a whole, biofuel and bioenergy may not be the total answer, but it is one of the answers.
that is the great thing: not only is it good for farmers, but it is good for the environment.
some set-aside land is very effective for environmental enhancement, but i think we should look very positively at using other set-aside land for fuel.
mr president, over the past six months, energy has very much become the topic of the moment.
the commission’s framework programmes for research have for many years supported pioneering work into renewable bio-resources, including plastics, agri-chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
the seventh framework programme for research will place a particular emphasis on the development of sustainable non-food applications.
on the use of biomass for energy, eurostat and the joint research centre estimate that the potential for biomass production to meet our targets for 2010 is there.
as well as our specific support for energy crops of eur 45 per hectare, farmers can use set-aside land to grow non-food crops.
last year about 900 000 hectares of set-aside land were used for growing biomass for energy purposes.
the sugar reform has now made sugar beet eligible for all bio-energy support schemes.
in our new rural development programming period we have the opportunity to support investments and other actions in favour of biomass for energy and other non-food purposes.
as far as the environment is concerned, i agree that we must keep a careful eye on any unwanted impact from the development of the non-food sector.
this can clearly have economic, social and environmental benefits, but we must also be sure to maintain a proper balance between the production of food and non-food.
i am looking forward to a discussion here in the european parliament on the ways of using renewable energies in a more active way.
the active development of renewable energy will go some way towards addressing the fossil fuel crisis.
it can lead to environmental improvements, although i agree with both the rapporteur and the commissioner here this morning that we need to monitor this environmental impact.
– mr president, i am a supporter of the development of biofuels as one of the many answers national governments need to the impending energy crisis.
since the european union has so profoundly failed to protect my country from price-fixing by european energy companies, the need becomes even greater.
our countryside is in the process of being turned into a monstrous meccano set for the sake of meeting renewable energy targets dreamed up by the european commission.
mr president, the momentum building behind green energy, combined with the pressure on traditional agriculture, unite to offer agricultural production for non-food purposes as an alternative for some, as they consider necessary diversification.
eu-wide experiences of the use of biomass for producing energy, involving both renewable raw materials and organic farm waste, should be pooled so that the most viable initiatives can be replicated across europe.
my government recently announced its intention to develop northern ireland as a centre of excellence in alternative energy.
tax incentives, increased aid in respect of land use to grow energy crops, and the focused use of structural funds: all have a part to play.
i voted for this resolution because as a london mep i believe that recently published energy sector inquiries found that some continental firms have been guilty of price fixing.
while these techniques will not solve our energy problems, they can make a small but significant contribution.
where they make economic, environmental and energy sense, i will support them, when they merely maintain agricultural expenditure at the expense of common sense, i will not.
the cultivation of biomass, for example, can contribute efficiently in decreasing the greenhouse effect, which is primarily caused by co2, by buffering the co2 emission.
i am in favour of the promotion of renewable energy through the production of crops.
several current technologies, such as energy derived from biomass, are economically viable and competitive and will, in turn, open up new markets for farmers in the european union, thus stimulating economic, social and environmental growth.
however, i am encouraged to see that the commission will open 50 cases against member states that fail to implement the liberalisation of the energy markets.
that leaves us extremely vulnerable, and i am glad to see that at last the european union is taking the whole issue of energy seriously.
gordon brown has said that the lack of liberalisation of european energy markets has cost the united kingdom gbp 10 billion a year.
on that note, i am encouraged by the announcement that the commission will open 50 new cases tomorrow against european union governments that have failed to implement european union laws by failing to open up the eu’s energy market.
this should include comparison with other countries, including the united states, keeping our aim of fostering a competitive business and investment environment.
good-quality, effective and simple legislation in the internal market should open up opportunities for cross-border trade and give consumers increased choice, while protecting environmental, social and consumer rights.
our parliament has total responsibility for health, the environment, justice, education, fishing, agriculture and many more areas, yet the eu view of subsidiarity too often stops at the member state when, in fact, the more relevant partner may well be much more local.
the european institutions like to pride themselves on their international leadership in terms of policy on climate change, the greatest threat we face, and yet this regulation is a tragedy of missed opportunity and sets back the potential of our climate policy by decades.
we are talking about gases that have enormous global warming potential.
they include sulphur hexafluoride, which is over 23 000 times more powerful as a greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide and yet will still be permitted in some applications.
we have a regulation that fails to recognise the fact that alternatives already exist for most f-gas applications, that fails to promote substitution and that will set back the introduction of safe and innovative alternatives for years, not just in the european union but in the developing world as well, where f-gas emissions are predicted to grow enormously over the next few decades.
all council members accepted that environment policy can make an important contribution to jobs and growth.
progress may not be made in one area, but it springs up somewhere else: an energy policy for europe, a good step forward; or more countries wanting to join the eurozone.
i also congratulate mr barroso on the action he took yesterday to clamp down on energy giants in europe, which are using their industrial muscle to hinder competition and distort the market.
this legal action against those who are trying to restrict an open european energy market will be welcomed by all those of us who believe in free markets and the completion of the single market.
this is a gross waste of public funds.
however, these elements also include health stewardship – the range of functions carried out by governments as they seek to achieve health objectives, sustainable health financing, efficient and effective health service delivery and the application of health knowledge, technology and infrastructure.
the story of international aid to these countries is sadly one of waste, embezzlement and corruption.
the explosion at the chernobyl power plant spewed radioactive waste over vast swathes of the former ussr and western europe, and rendered an area with a radius of 30 km uninhabitable to humankind.
i particularly welcome the commissioner’s commitment to the development of renewable technologies.
the commissioner will shortly be visiting my constituency, where we are closing nuclear power plants and developing renewable fuels.
with finite resources fast depleting, europe will have to radically re-examine its patterns of energy supply and consumption.
if we are to avoid being 90% dependent on russian oil by 2020, we have to achieve greater autonomy in energy supply and develop a common energy policy with an intelligent, balanced energy mix.
that is why my group applauds the council and the austrian presidency for backing plans to double the use of biomass, including organic waste, for energy purposes, allowing us to cut energy imports by over 6% and bring up to 300 000 jobs to rural areas with overall consumption rising, greater energy efficiency combined with the renewables could generate around 25% of our needs.
given the substantial contribution that nuclear power already makes to our energy autonomy, there must be renewed momentum to invest in safety, both to ensure that nuclear power stations produce less waste and present less risk and to develop europe’s research into fusion energy through the euratom framework and the experiment in cadarache in france.
nobody denies that we need a sustainable and secure energy supply; they disagree only on the mix.
the anniversary of the chernobyl disaster is a reminder of the challenges we face in delivering our energy requirements while minimising the risks.
we owe it to the victims of chernobyl to develop safe, reliable and sustainable sources of energy.
mr president, i would like to bring to public attention another example of the european union’s hypocrisy when it comes to addressing environmental matters.
this proposal to extract oil from the continental shelf off the russian island of sakhalin threatens not only the economy and way of life of the island’s inhabitants, but also poses a potential environmental disaster of alarming proportions.
local fishermen and international environmental groups are pleading with the ebrd not to grant a loan of approximately eur 300 million to finance the project.
both the european community and the european investment bank are shareholders in a bank that proposes to finance a project which will have exactly the opposite effect to protecting the environment.
it is more likely to direct the funding into waste and bureaucracy.
mr president, following what you have just announced, i must draw the attention of the house to the fact that there is an oral question to the council on wednesday night’s agenda regarding the energy community treaty, which we are due to debate that night.
efficiently run, it has been meeting its ecological obligations by already ensuring sufficient escapement of mature eels for spawning, and, at its own cost, funding restocking with junior eels.
according to our agenda, after 9 p.m. tomorrow evening we are due to debate whether to grant a cent to the energy community treaty and put an oral question to the council with regard to this treaty.
it needs to show that it is ready to move on to an ambitious reform programme that tackles those very issues that i referred to of low growth, high unemployment and threats to our environment.
the un convention on the rights of the child provides that the state shall provide substitute care for a child temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment or who cannot be left in that environment in his or her own interest.
the european union has arguably the most stringent and tough risk assessment and authorisation procedure for gmos in the world, and that covers both environmental and health aspects.
at the moment they have to transport feed from other parts of the country at greater expense, with more of an environmental impact because of the transport.
that is why replacing 16 codecision instruments with one will not work: replacing instruments on aids, tuberculosis and malaria, replacing policies on sexual and reproductive health, on measures to promote the full integration of environmental dimensions, on measures to promote the consolidation of sustainable management of forests – including those in developing counties, policies on consolidating democracy and the rule of law, on respecting human rights, on promoting gender equality in developing countries, on decentralised cooperation, on cofinancing with other ngos, on food aid and food management, on development cooperation with south africa, with latin america, with asia – it must be dotty!
the first is: what mechanism would the council envisage for ex ante informing of parliament prior to the adoption of a position by the council with regard to the energy community treaty institutions?
secondly, by what means and by whom will parliament be informed ex ante of the position taken by the representatives of the european community in the organs of the energy community treaty, such as the permanent high level group?
before the house is invited to vote on the recommendation on the energy community treaty tomorrow, we need some answers and assurances from the council on these points, and i and others will be listening carefully.
it is also important because energy is currently perceived as a very important issue, largely as a result of events at the beginning of this year.
energy is vital to our way of life, vital to our quality of life and vital to our standard of living, so how we organise markets and safeguard security of supply is equally important.
indeed, i welcome his open and constructive approach in meetings and in the recent letter with regard to the issues of informing parliament about the activities of the energy community and addressing some of the concerns of my committee over social and human rights issues.
i trust that the council will endorse his offer to inform parliament in advance of the european community position to be taken before the institutions of the energy community on important issues.
i welcome his letter’s assertion that he considers it of the utmost importance that parliament is fully informed in advance of important decisions to be adopted by the energy community.
the council decision on the conclusion of the energy community treaty lays down in its article 4(3) the provisions for providing ‘mutual assistance in the event of disruption’ – see the treaty’s title iv, chapter iv.
the final point – by what means and by whom will parliament be informed ex ante of the position taken by the commission within the various organs of the energy community treaty – has been answered in general terms in the commissioner’s letter.
– mr president, we know setting up an internal energy market between the eu and the countries of south-east europe has advantages for both sides: for the balkan states it helps establish the reliable energy supply necessary for economic growth, and for us on the eu side it facilitates access to gas resources in the middle east and around the caspian sea, enhancing diversity and security of supply – especially important since the ripples in the pool that were alluded to by mr chichester.
it is not clear whether there will be any control of the demand side of energy, as there is through eu energy efficiency legislation, or whether environmental considerations, such as the control of pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions, have been given adequate attention.
there is also the question of corruption in the energy sector.
given the serious nature of the questions hanging over the energy community treaty, it would be deeply regrettable if parliament were sidelined.
mr president, buying energy from another country is one thing.
secondly, interlinked with the first priority, is that of ensuring security for european citizens in areas such as freedom and security and justice, as well as the specific sector of energy supply that we have just been discussing.
this would mean deleting programmes if they no longer produce value for money and creating programmes that are more relevant to a changing global environment.
speaking as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, firstly, i would like to say that i support the rapporteur in urging the commission and member states to focus on areas that are the bases of healthy and thriving modern economies: research and development, innovation, knowledge, skills, telecommunications and energy.
there are some elements i disagree with, but the report goes some way towards bringing a measure of social and environmental balance into the strategic guidelines.
for too long the european union has not paid sufficient attention to the need for a common energy policy.
we have spent billions on security of food supplies via the cap, yet nothing on security of energy supplies, leaving the prospect that europe’s future would be, in a crisis, eating raw vegetables in the dark.
recent events in russia – and elsewhere – show the importance of energy security.
a tidal barrage across the severn estuary in my own constituency could supply up to 10% of britain’s energy needs from a renewable green scheme with no co2 emissions.
other forms of environmental action on floods are urgently required.
i voted for the estrela report on the environmental aspects of natural disasters, but against the creation of a special agency on drought and floods.
the fact that the ceasefire has been respected is an indication that the right environment for peace talks is being created.
so here is europe’s mandate from the people: a mandate to deliver the reforms needed to meet challenges like energy security, migration, climate change and organised crime, which individual member states struggle to deal with under the current set-up.
but this ‘europe of projects’ can never get off the ground until member state governments explain to their people what they are doing together in brussels and why, and until we give the union the money and the legal powers to push through initiatives like the common energy policy, which faces an uphill struggle against blocking forces in the council, as too do many other initiatives in the field of justice and home affairs, for example, where the absence of qualified majority voting so often results in stalemate.
however, we have the people of europe behind us in our task, because they recognise, however much some of our national leaders like to deny it, that the big problems we face, the major challenges of globalisation – population growth and migration, climate change, internationally organised crime – cannot be dealt with by nation states built on the 18th-century concept of military industrial power; they require us to overcome our tribal and our religious hatreds and to work together for the future of all our citizens on a planet which we share with many others.
thirdly, it should aim to upgrade the combating of climate change to establish a good context for the reform of the common agricultural policy and the construction of a common energy policy.
i also want to see greater and more effective intergovernmental cooperation in tackling environmental challenges and fighting the scourge of terrorism.
finally, on the issue of regulation and harmonisation, in spite of amendments and some nice rhetoric to the contrary, there is a risk that we will see a levelling down – rather than a levelling up – of hard-won environmental health and consumer standards.
we must not be under-ambitious on energy efficiency.
we are dealing with an evolving set of circumstances, and the technology is developing so fast that last years’ top energy-efficient appliance becomes next year’s rather mediocre model.
as mrs rothe said, when the commission published its green paper it based its target of 20% energy saving by 2020 on an oil price of usd 30 a barrel, but by the time the report passed through the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy (itre), oil prices stood at usd 70 a barrel.
it will not be very long before member states bring forward their national energy efficiency action plans.
– mr president, one of the commissioner’s officials spoke to the environment committee recently.
it is increasingly difficult to secure proper compliance with environmental legislation from member states.
i hope that is something the commission will be raising on a regular and frequent basis in the environment council – naming and shaming.
bad farmers might have difficulty in meeting some of the requirements of this kind of legislation, but we are on the side of the good farmers and the environment, not the bad farmers, and that is as it should be.
– mr president, i would like to thank in particular mrs brepoels, the rapporteur, for all the excellent work she has done in listening to the various views and concerns, trying to find a way through on what is essentially a theme we all support, that is, greater access to information for the public and people who need to know, initially with the environmental theme in mind, and then going on, as the commissioner has indicated, to agriculture, transport and so on.
however, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this house apparently wants to mount a smash-and-grab raid, so that what has been built up expensively over decades is made available to all, at no cost.
we do not want to threaten the financial sustainability of spatial data collection in the uk or elsewhere.
mr president, i should first like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr seeber, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the excellent report they have produced on the first reading.
however, much can be done to limit the often devastating effects of floods on human health and life, economic activity and property, and the environment in europe.
in addition, as the effects of climate change become more apparent, flooding across europe is expected to become more extreme and unpredictable.
this is another reason for action to ensure that adequate and appropriate flood risk management measures are in place and are regularly reviewed to adapt to climate change.
in this context, and after extensive consultation with stakeholders, the commission has put forward its proposal, which includes the following main points: preliminary flood risk assessment to identify areas at high risk (possible effects of climate change on future flooding should be taken into account) • flood risk maps, in which citizens and planning authorities can see the likely extent of floods and the damage they can cause to people, businesses and the environment; cross-border coordination for watersheds and coastal areas crossing more than one country.
it should also be noted that flooding can indirectly cause damage and pollution with dangerous substances with devastating effects on ecosystems and drinking water.
what we have now is a proposed directive, which is strong enough to offer people protection without duplicating the work done by other authorities, particularly at the regional and the local levels and which is also good for the environment.
with the increasing effects of climate change on our environment, it is essential for us to have a coordinated and well thought-out approach to flooding, which is increasing in both frequency and intensity in the eu.
floods are a natural phenomenon and they are important for maintaining the ecological functioning of an ecosystem.
but we need sustainable flood risk management and relevant policies and financial mechanisms to deliver that.
cost recovery measures also need to be introduced, making economics work for the environment.
since the beginning of the industrial revolution britain was able to rely predominantly on its own indigenous energy resources: coal and then natural gas.
but britain, like many european countries, now faces an impending energy crisis.
coal still meets 35% of our energy needs but it is environmentally unfriendly.
nuclear energy provides about 22.5% of our needs but that nuclear capability is now rapidly coming to the end of its life cycle and our nuclear power stations will have to be decommissioned, so that by 2014 we will have lost about 70% of our capacity.
britain faces losing a very large proportion of its energy supplies relatively quickly.
energy conservation measures are necessary and desirable, but cannot make the necessary impact.
with the best will in the world, renewable sources of energy, such as wind and waves, simply will not supply the amounts of energy required for major industrialised societies.
he is quite right to think in terms of a 50-year plan for sustainable and secure nuclear energy supplies that are safe and environmentally friendly.
i hope that in conciliation we can find some commonsense solution to this, so that we allow the action to be focused on areas where the biggest problems are, rather than spending time, money and energy on managing groundwater where that is not in fact going to be a problem for public health.
this report seeks to set clear scientifically-based guidelines for assessing good quality groundwater and prevent further pollution.
a natural resource occurring in rock aquifers, groundwater is used by agriculture and industry as well as for drinking water, yet it is particularly vulnerable to the problems of drought and pollution.
given the varying ecological circumstances across the eu, it also means supporting local solutions with guidance on common approaches following the vote i and my eplp colleagues remain unhappy about a number of technical issues relating to the directive, and understand the uk government will now pursue these issues in the final negotiations between the european parliament and the european council.
i shall be voting against amendments 13, 14, 18, 19, 23 and 24 to ensure the sustainable financing of high-quality spatial data in the united kingdom.
by undermining the sustainable financing of high-quality spatial data they undermine the very purpose of the inspire infrastructure.
russia must be seen as a reliable energy trading partner and not as a trade bully towards its neighbours and those countries nearby, as we saw recently over the ban against georgia and moldova in the importation of their wines and mineral waters, or, even more bizarrely, on the ‘bilateral issue’ with polish farm products, which i always thought was the commission’s prerogative, covered by the monopoly on external trade.
we believe that the scope of this judgment goes beyond the question of environmental protection alone.
the degree of energy wasted by the political leaders of europe in trying to foist an unwanted constitution on our people is quite staggering.
take one example: national sustainable development strategies have to be prepared in all cases by next june.
we need specific performance tables; we need the opportunity to name and shame, to point the finger at those member states that pay lip service to the idea of sustainable development, but do not match their fine words with deeds.
five years ago, when the natura 2000 programme was being prepared, commissioner wallström, the then environment commissioner, used the fact that structural funds could be withheld unless the habitats directive was properly complied with as a means of encouraging the process.
– mr president, the renewal of the sustainable development strategy is very welcome, but it must become more focused.
the need to have better coordination with other cross-cutting strategies like lisbon is well established, but we also need to have better coordination within the sustainable development strategy itself.
we need to think clearly and recognise that some of our sustainable development policies could potentially conflict with others.
for example, we are committed to a european target for biofuels and i very much support this, but the sustainable development strategy also includes a commitment to sustainable forest management and to halting the loss of biodiversity.
so i would beg the presidency in this regard simply to use the strategy as a starting point for much more detailed work on sustainability.
it is for this reason that the eu can never impose a sustainable development strategy on britain.
so why is there a lack of action on hate crimes when member states can agree criminal penalties for pollution crimes?
this morning commissioner piebalgs mentioned, in a question-and-answer session, that there would be certification to underwrite the sustainability of biofuels.
biomass is a most important form of energy, accounting for 65% of the renewable energy used in the eu.
however, the total percentage of renewable energy used in the eu has remained at 6% since 1990. therefore, does the austrian presidency agree that any realistic common energy policy should include the use of nuclear power?
another huge waste!
british conservatives support the objectives behind the sustainable development strategy but believe that this resolution is unduly negative as to the progress that is being made.
the european parliament must recognise that sustainable economic growth is a prerequisite and a catalyst for sustainable development, rather than being a threat or alternative to it.
failure to meet the environmental targets that we have already agreed to would fundamentally undermine europe’s credibility in the area of sustainable development.
we cannot meet our climate change targets if we do not have a workforce with the necessary skills to deliver.
i also welcome the recognition that social cohesion is a necessary part of sustainable development: the poorest people often live and work in the worst environmental circumstances, whether in the eu or africa.
politicians have a crucial role in establishing a climate that rejects violence and hate speech: it is part of establishing an inclusive society.
– mr president, i wish to begin by saying that i warmly welcome the commission’s communication on reducing the climate impact of aviation and that my report strongly supports the commission’s position that a comprehensive package of measures is needed to address the full impact of aviation on the climate.
between 1990 and 2003, the eu’s international aviation emissions increased by 73%, corresponding to an annual growth of over 4%.
at this rate the increased emissions from aviation will neutralise more than a quarter of the reductions required by the eu’s kyoto target by 2012. moreover, crucially, aviation’s total impact on the climate is estimated to be two to four times the co2 impact, even without considering the potential effects of cirrus cloud enhancement.
of course, the industry’s efforts to reduce its emissions are welcome.
article 2(2) of the kyoto protocol urges states to pursue reduction of greenhouse gases from this source through the international civil aviation organization, but there are currently no plans for a global solution here.
council conclusions of december 2005 reaffirm this, calling for ‘specific action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation if no such action is agreed within the icao by 2002’.
ending the vat exemption would further level the playing field, and bring fiscal as well as environmental benefits.
improvements in air traffic management could reduce average fuel burn by between 8% and 18%, with resultant decreases in all engine emissions.
all of these measures are necessary, but the main focus of the commission’s proposals and therefore of my report is on emissions trading.
first, it is clear that other policy instruments must be introduced alongside an emissions trading system to address the full climatic impact.
instruments directly linked to the impact in question, such as a nox charge, would be most likely to induce the most efficient behaviour, although multipliers on co2 emissions are an interim alternative.
this is crucial, because if there is not a parallel emissions charge or multiplier formula to cover aviation’s non-co2 impacts, the effect of buying the right to emit a tonne of co2 from another sector with much lower non-co2 impacts would actually be a net disbenefit to the environment.
second, and crucially, a separate closed system for aviation is crucial at the very least as a pilot scheme because, apart from the administrative difficulties of including aviation in the eu’s general ets, many sectors already in that scheme are concerned about the possible effect of aviation’s inclusion on carbon prices, noting that as a sheltered sector, aviation will be able tolerate higher prices than many others.
there is a very real risk that excessive pressure on vulnerable, energy-intensive industries could lead to a loosening of the overall cap.
finally, if colleagues are in any doubt about the importance of a separate scheme, they should consider the words of a chief economist of british airways, who admitted last week that if airlines joined the existing emissions trading system their emissions would simply continue to grow at an alarming rate: they would simply buy up the right to emit as ever, their own emissions would not go down, and we would still see aviation having a massive accountability for the climate crisis.
the trouble is the predicted growth is so great as to wipe out the gains being made in reducing carbon dioxide in other sectors.
our message to the airline industry should be this: expand as you like, but find ways of doing it without increasing co2 emissions.
mr president, when it comes to the environment, aviation always seems to me to be the easiest target to blame for emissions.
as mrs doyle mentioned, the uk house of lords recently finalised a report on the effects of aviation on climate change.
i particularly welcome the efforts to strengthen the social and environmental aspects of the regulations.
in dealing with these funds, we have generally fought hard to ensure that the role of ngos is strengthened and that greater account is taken of the environment and to stress the importance of access for those with disabilities.
at the moment the amendment would include the words ‘including eventually nox emissions’, but i would like to remove the word ‘eventually’.
given that in 2002 almost half of all portable batteries sold in the eu-15 member states were eventually incinerated or disposed of in landfills, this report is an important piece of environmental legislation.
the main points raised in this report cover the most important measures of reducing the harmful effects of battery waste.
producers will now be required to finance any net costs arising from the collection, treatment and recycling of waste batteries and accumulators, regardless of when these were placed on the market.
over the last programming period and now within the enlarged union, there has been a sense of the growing importance of protecting the environment whilst ensuring economic growth, improving access for the disabled to publicly financed facilities ensuring equality of treatment and eliminating discrimination in all its forms.
i supported amendments in the name of the verts/ale group which sought to adopt guidelines on fair competition, social standards and environmental protection for tramp vessel services.
we therefore voted against paragraph 3 and recital f.
mr president, i voted on the lucas report in support of measures to lessen the impact on climate change.
merely increasing taxes will not by itself reduce emissions.
neither can the aviation industry trade emissions with itself: it needs to do so in cooperation with other industries.
this same public, though, is concerned about climate change.
all these measures must be considered in relation to the needs and wishes of these consumers in a way that ensures that environmental concern is at the very top of the agenda.
labour meps fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation.
we support the principle of inclusion of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme (ets) and ask the commission to come forward with workable proposals.
i will be voting for this report on reducing the climate change impact of aviation.
aviation is one of the most rapidly growing sources of greenhouse gases.
nevertheless some of her proposals, for example the immediate introduction of kerosene tax on vat or all intra-eu flights or the establishment of a separate emissions trading scheme for aviation, have neither been costed nor impact-assessed.
british conservatives have voted in favour of this report because we recognise the impact aviation emissions have on climate change.
they account for some 4% of carbon emissions in the eu and air traffic movements are set to double by 2020 compared to 2003. we are in favour of including aviation emissions in an emissions trading scheme, either by addition to the present scheme or possibly within a more limited scheme.
this would allow the airlines to cooperate with the national and eu authorities to apply rules that meet their aims of achieving the highest possible environmental standards without unduly penalising eu travellers and, if they are operated on flights into and out of the eu, operators would pay no more than their non-eu competitors.
we look to the commission to learn from its early mistakes in the emissions trading system and to pilot an ets for the aviation industry.
air transport is currently the most widely used means of long-distance travel, with serious environmental impacts, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
i think charging fees for emissions and trading in emission allowances is an appropriate way of tackling this problem.
i voted for the lucas report on the impact of aviation on climate change.
i fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation.
i also support the principle of the inclusion of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme and hope the commission will come forward with a workable proposal.
for example, i abstained on the call for an end to vat exemption for air transport because it is not clear if this will help tackle climate change or merely hurt the less well-off traveller.
i fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation.
i support the principle of inclusion of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme (ets) and support the call for the commission to come forward with workable proposals.
i agree with the general thrust of this report, but believe that there are still considerable problems with the result of today’s vote: firstly, that the impact of the suggestions is largely uncosted and has a disproportionate impact; secondly, that the emissions trading scheme should include air transport but that there should not be a separate scheme which runs by its side.
i fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme and ask the commission to come forward with workable proposals.
what i think we can do, and should do more, is to make sure that we help set a regulatory climate in which entrepreneurship can flourish, so that more new jobs can be created and genuinely; as one door has to close, other doors can be encouraged to open.
priorities like completing the internal market, particularly in services and the energy sector, are key goals for us in the months ahead, as are efforts to deliver a directive on the portability of supplementary pensions and promoting market openings for new technologies.
let us, on energy, recognise that we have a single market.
i am reassured by your energy in that direction.
the uk has a derogation from the energy products directive which allows the country's recreational boat owners to fill up their vessels with red diesel, taxed at 6.44 pence per litre.
as leisure boaters' red diesel usage makes up less than 0.05% of the country's diesel consumption, the environmental benefits are essentially negligible.
they were certainly not rich people but they had a sustainable price, they had a long-term contract for their product.
fair trade is about price and sustainability.
in my own north-west constituency, we are determined to promote equality and sustainable development wherever possible.
we were against this tdip committee from the beginning and feel that it is a waste of money which duplicates senator marty's efforts in the council of europe.
despite the commission’s insistence that this proposal is not aimed at tax harmonisation, it will force countries that apply tax on registration of vehicles to phase that out and it will make all countries apply the same level of emissions-linking to the so-called ‘annual circulation tax’.
indeed, in the uk we are moving to a car-tax structure based on emissions levels.
mr president, pollution crosses borders and requires urgent co-ordinated action to deal with its consequences, so it is wholly appropriate that we create at eu level a framework to deal with it.
this is an area precious to scotland's natural environment.
commissioner dimas has launched an investigation into the potential environmental consequences of these proposals and i hope his investigation will stop these proposals from being implemented.
pollution caused by ships is extremely concerning.
i have been in constant communication with the european commission regarding these controversial transfers and it is aware of the strength of local feeling in fife, as well as the very grave risks to the local environment.
i urge the rapporteur and the commission to press for an early conclusion to be reached by the sub-committee assessing the risks attached to pollution from hydrocarbons.
british conservative meps strongly support the objective of improving the natural environment in which we live.
in addition to the environmental aspects of the report that we support, we also support the avoidance of british citizens being taxed double when they move abroad and the rights of consumers to benefit from an enhanced single market.
our decision to abstain on the final vote does not imply that we are opposed to the requirement for urgent measures to improve the environment.
the eplp is, in principle, in favour of a link between levels of taxation and our commitments to reducing environmental pollution.
whilst the eplp believes that this is an extremely important opinion that raises many relevant points in trying to develop a europe-wide solution linking to pollution to consumption, the eplp believes that taxation is a matter of national competence and therefore cannot support aims at harmonising taxation at an eu level to reach these aims without full unanimity.
although i agree that we must reduce environmental pollution, i believe that taxation should be dealt with at member state level.
the european social model is well meaning, it is compassionate, it is meant to do good and yet it has created a regulatory and fiscal climate which is deterring enterprise, destroying wealth and undermining competitiveness.
the issue of more allowances than there are emissions obviously risked undermining the credibility of the whole scheme, but now we are on the second round of the process and we need to have learnt those lessons.
i hope that the minister will put this on the agenda of the environment council on 23 october.
parliament expects you to ensure that these national allocation plans meet the goals required of the emissions trading scheme, and many member states which are genuinely committed and have submitted their plans already will be backing you and want you to ensure that there is a level playing field and that the others fall into line.
whatever they may say, many member states are looking for an escape route from the emissions trading scheme.
they need an environment in which to develop.
this opinion is expected in october 2006. as regards the protection of biodiversity and wild birds, the commission, following the council meeting last december, commissioned a study in january 2006 to examine the effectiveness of community regulations on trade in species of wild fauna and flora.
since 1992 the us has imposed a moratorium on all cites-listed birds unless it can be scientifically proven that they are harvested in a sustainable way.
firstly, i can tell you that the united states has not signed the biodiversity convention.
they are only justifiable in the looking glass world of the common fisheries policy, a policy which has done so much damage to fishing communities, fish stocks and the wider environment within our own waters.
mr president, the common fisheries policy has done so much damage to fishing communities, fish stocks and the wider environment within our own waters it is incapable of meaningful reform and should be scrapped wholesale.
they are only justifiable in the looking glass world of the common fisheries policy, a policy which has done so much damage to fishing communities, fish stocks and the wider environment within our own waters.
we should waste no time in deploying the 7000 troops that the union has pledged to unifil to stabilise the situation in southern lebanon, to cut off the flow of arms and to support the humanitarian effort.
regrettably, however, in its quest for international support and, in particular, energy security, china has recently courted terrorist-sponsoring iran, and along with russia refused to impose un sanctions for iran’s continuing uranium enrichment programme.
fundamentally, we are looking for good traceability and proof of sustainable practices.
we need sometimes to temper utopian environmental demands with business reality.
even the spanish government’s own environment minister suggested that some of the fires could have been started by forestry workers angry at not being drafted over the summer by the regional firefighting brigades.
i suggest we look at it in the environment committee and then take the matter further from there, rather than taking up time in the plenary during what is an exceptionally busy week here in strasbourg.
mr president, if you want to know why we are having this debate, come with me down oxford street, in my constituency of london, where you can smell, taste and feel the air pollution that we seek to tackle.
in my constituency, 1 000 people die prematurely as a result of pollution and another 1 000 are sent to hospital.
it is now estimated that pm 2.5 pollution is responsible for reducing our life expectancy by some eight months.
that is why we need to tackle pollution at source in relation to cars and heavy vehicles, ships, agricultural feed, energy-using products and so forth.
may i also wish well mr sjöstedt, our friend and colleague from the environment committee.
as he takes his environmental credentials across the ocean, may we hope that he influences the americans too, to ensure they understand the need for environmental measures of this sort.
mr president, i am not on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety but, like mr bowis, i represent london, the city traditionally known as the ‘big smoke’.
eu air pollution limits are significantly exceeded along london’s major road network, in central london and around heathrow airport, where nitrogen dioxide is 50% above the limit, due to a combination of aeroplanes and vehicles.
our constituents are rightly worried about many aspects of the urban environment.
however, it is more than that; it is the noise that we have to put up with in the urban environment, from neighbours as well as from vehicles, from ghetto blasters and so on.
within the three-month deadline for completion of the plans as provided for in the emissions trading directive.
this will allow the commission to take decisions on the vast majority of the emissions trading before christmas and to complete the evaluation process by spring 2007. this will ensure a smooth and timely start of the second phase of the european union's emissions trading scheme in 2008 in all member states.
the commission, of course, cannot comment on the substance of the ongoing assessments, but will use all the political and legal means at its disposal to ensure that the plans are in line with the kyoto commitments and the confirmed 2005 emissions figures, with a view to ensuring a level playing field for companies.
the first is whether the member states are on track to achieve the curtailment target and how the allocations for the emissions trading system, together with other measures, will contribute to the achievement of that target.
the second is the available publicly-known data regarding the emissions.
for the second trading period, we have the advantage that we have the actual emissions for 2005, which are as described previously.
so these two criteria will be very important in making the national allocation plans achieve the scarcity that is needed in the market in order to give companies and installations incentives to make the right investment in cutting down carbon dioxide emissions.
can the commissioner comment on the validity and logic of a policy that compels member states to radically reduce emissions with resulting increases in eu energy prices and lower manufacturing output while, at the same time, we promote trade with and production in china, the world’s greatest polluter, with no enforceable requirements for the suppression of emissions from them.
i do not object to trade with china, but i do object to the lack of compulsion upon them to reduce their emissions.
in effect, are we not really trading jobs and emissions ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i welcome the fact that you will be monitoring whether the ruling is properly applied.
i would like in particular to thank mrs krehl for her work to bring some improvements to the commission’s original proposal, particularly in regard to partnership, the role of cities and their hinterlands, civil society, access for the disabled and the environment.
while my constituents in northern ireland recognised that enlargement would bring with it a financial burden on the richer member states, they were also keen to ensure that funding is allocated in ways that will bring sustainable improvement throughout the entire european union.
as we have so often done in the environmental domain, we need an overarching framework directive first, setting out the general interest before we embark on specific sectors.
on reform, human rights, religious freedom, cyprus, armenia we have obtained nothing, but in return we have wasted, and will continue to waste, millions on pre-accession aid.
no strategy for economic growth is complete without addressing the growing crisis of climate change.
the impact of growth in asia on energy supply is phenomenal.
india’s future growth is dependent on meeting spiralling energy needs.
severe shortages and over-dependency on petrol and coal are driving up costs and pollution.
an effort to develop nuclear energy is symptomatic of that crisis.
however, even if india did develop nuclear energy it would meet only 2% of total energy requirements.
it would also constitute a climb-down from gleneagles pledges to halt climate change and promote energy conservation.
both india and the eu have long traditions of promoting renewable energy.
india has built the world’s fourth largest wind power industry, developed biogas digesters and solar cells and supported the development of renewable energy in asia.
we must work together to define the global energy architecture through innovation and sustainable energy development whilst meeting climate change benchmarks.
i also commend the attempt to move towards a policy of achieving maximum sustainable yields.
they achieved a sustainable industry by care, not by chance.
it is inconsistent in departing from similar decisions in areas like the bay of biscay, and it is based on a maximum sustainable yield before that is even defined.
we in europe very much want a sustainable fisheries policy.
– mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr ransdorf, my colleague and vice-president of the committee on industry, research and energy, for his excellent report.
india has a responsibility to its citizens to enforce core labour standards and meet environmental standards.
on your agenda there will be important matters as diverse as energy, innovation and migration, although, as you say, the real story will be entertaining the president of the russian federation.
let them also prepare for life without dependency on russia through joined-up thinking on energy and the environment.
in a week in which al gore has promoted his film on the ‘inconvenient truth’ of climate change, our energy policy must in any case reflect an urgent need for a change of direction.
lahti is a follow-up to hampton court a year ago, where leaders approved plans to create a european energy market, raise competitiveness and educational levels and tackle the growing pressure of migration.
the commission proposes a genuine internal market in energy, unbundling networks as we did with telecoms, creating an observatory to monitor stocks, developing a more sustainable energy mix, making energy savings.
madam president, i am very happy that the president-in-office has confirmed that discussions at lahti will centre on the whole question of energy.
like the last speaker, mr lundgren, i hope that climate change will also be a core part of these discussions.
the protection of the citizen and his or her environment needs to be put at the centre of energy policy.
climate change and its possible repercussions, air pollution in cities, the deterioration of the urban environment and all the other pollution nuisances of which we are aware have a strong impact on our citizens in their everyday lives in economic, social and health terms.
we know that by 2020 our environment will have warmed up by another 0.8oc.
that global warming will lead to extraordinary weather conditions such as storms, extra rain and floods.
as mr barroso said on the subject of immigration, in terms of energy we cannot go on with 25 – soon to be 27 – disparate and completely separate energy policies.
we have to centralise and have a coherent energy policy run from the centre.
(applause)
madam president, well, here we go again: another heads of state summit, another discussion about our competitiveness – or, should i say, lack of competitiveness – and another complete waste of time!
mr president, the impact of these tariffs will be to increase shoe prices for my constituents in london at a time when families, especially those on lower incomes, are already facing higher energy bills.
this does not mean that environmental schemes will suffer from the withdrawal of life money, but that money may be better spent and more transparently supervised.
i am particularly concerned with the requirement for a 55% allocation of funds for nature and biodiversity.
important as these areas are, such a requirement would limit member states’ ability to allocate funds for projects addressing their own environmental priorities such as climate change.
(applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
however, mr elles’ policy priorities include common foreign and security policy, the european neighbourhood policy, terrorist threats, border controls on immigration, environment and communication.
at the summit we focused particularly on external energy relations.
in addition to energy issues, we also discussed topical international issues and the situation of freedom of expression in russia.
the energy discussion at the c-suite was wide-ranging and multi-faceted.
the main topics discussed were the principles and implementation of the eu-russia energy relations, closer relations with strategically important third countries, combating climate change through energy policy and improving the exchange of information through the network of energy bill exchangers.
on energy relations between the eu and russia, we agreed on the need for an even closer partnership.
this will be based on the principles of the energy charter and the g8 declaration, in particular transparency, market conditions and reciprocity.
in the gulf, we drew up a common line on eu-russia energy relations.
many speakers referred to climate change as the most important international challenge.
the eu must show leadership, particularly in promoting sustainable energy.
european companies have a lot to offer in terms of energy efficiency innovations and technologies.
we agreed that energy and climate issues should continue to be a central theme in eu summits with third countries, as has been the case during the finnish presidency.
securing energy supplies requires major investments in transmission networks and other infrastructure.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. it is important that the union has a broad base of information to support its external energy policy decision-making and to respond to external emergency situations.
at the gulf we agreed that we would try to make rapid progress in establishing a network of energy bill exchangers during the course of this year.
improving the collection and analysis of data will increase cooperation between member states and the institutions and improve solidarity on energy issues.
the discussions at the g20 meeting on external energy relations will also provide a basis for the next spring european council, which is expected to adopt a priority action programme on energy policy.
with the guidance of the gulf, we are now moving forward to create a competitive environment.
we discussed with the russian president how the objectives of energy cooperation could be furthered by a new agreement.
the finnish presidency will focus on energy, the environment, transport, justice and home affairs and human rights.
we have set out an ambitious agenda, for example on security, on energy, on research, and now we must put that agenda into action.
we should ask the eit to make its first priority the great challenges of climate change and everything related to environmentally-friendly sources of energy.
the second main issue in the debate was energy.
first, the european council agreed that we should step up our energy relations with our neighbours, especially producers like russia, norway or algeria, and key transit countries like turkey and ukraine.
secondly, the european council agreed to create a network of energy correspondents, which will also make us better prepared for unexpected shocks to our energy supply.
we made clear to president putin our wish to have a close energy relationship with such a key partner, but that relationship must be based on the principles that russia has already signed up to at the g8 hosted by russia this year, as well as the energy charter: transparency, the rule of law, reciprocity and non-discrimination, along with market opening and market access.
those principles apply to energy, but not just energy.
prime minister vanhanen spoke on behalf of the whole european council, presenting the general issues regarding our broad relations with russia, and i was proud to have been asked to speak on energy matters.
going forward on energy, within the framework of our new global agreement with russia, will help ensure that this common approach is maintained.
in short, the message is getting through: energy is a european issue and needs european solutions.
that the european union has a central role to play in creating energy security and, through energy policy, in tackling climate change.
that bodes well for the energy package that the commission will present in january.
the european union must not reduce its relationship with russia to energy.
i refer not, prime minister, to the artichoke soup or the grilled goose that you served at supper, proving that you can supplant prosciutto di parma, but to the eit and the european patents, to energy security, to immigration, to relations with russia – strategic themes which need serious reflection, but also strategic decisions which highlight the need for coherent policymaking.
what is the hope for a collective climate change strategy if we are not prepared together radically to change our patterns of energy consumption and generation?
energy is the lifeblood of any nation state and, of course, i am sent here to represent a nation state.
i think it is very difficult for the people of the united kingdom to accept that their energy policy should be decided basically by foreigners.
the thought, the idea or the concept that united kingdom energy could possibly be controlled by some sort of arrangement with a gangster like putin is absolutely ludicrous!
there seems to be some sort of abstract concept here of renewable energy.
it is a scientific fact that most of our renewable energy technology does not work.
any scientist independently retained will tell you that it is complete and total nonsense to expect the united kingdom to produce the sort of energy levels that the european union seems to require – which is 20% from a renewable source – by means of wind farms.
we do not yet have the technology for renewable energy.
i should like to focus my thoughts on the central issue at the lahti summit: the issue of energy security in europe and our continuing relationship with russia.
we will need russia’s energy resources in the decades ahead and russia, by the same token, will need access to eu markets if it is to develop its economic potential.
i knew that ukip members are divorced from reality, but even then i am astonished at godfrey bloom’s speech, in which he seemed to imply that britain was self-sufficient on energy and did not need to work with, or even talk to, other countries.
he says that britain’s ‘lifeblood’ should not be in the hands of ‘foreigners’, but how does he want to avoid us importing energy?
certainly not by renewables, which he dismisses out of hand as ‘nonsense’ claiming that wind farms are ‘absurd’ and that ‘no reputable scientist’ would claim that renewable energy can play a significant part in britain’s energy mix.
it responds to the need to improve citizens' participation in the construction of europe and encourages cooperation between citizens and their organisations from different countries in order to meet, act together and develop their own ideas in a european environment which goes beyond the national vision.
studies conducted by the oecd, the uk authorities and the scientific committee on health and environment risks have found evidence that pfos are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic.
– mr president, the ivory coast is an unstable country that has been made more unstable by environmental crime which has flowed from our continent down to africa; with a dutch ship and dutch port authorities, a greek-owned ship flying the panamanian flag, then ivorian companies and trucks dumping petrochemicals, killing – according to the united nations – 12 people, and resulting in 104 000 people – again according to the united nations – having medical care needs.
that ship unloaded 500 tonnes of chemical waste into trucks which dumped it in 15 separate sites around abidjan, a city of 5 million people.
the united nations environment programme has said that this is clearly a crime, although they say they do not yet know who was responsible, or the actual nature of that crime.
the ivory coast is a long way away; most countries in africa do not have strong laws to protect human and environmental health from the effects of hazardous waste, but that is no reason for us here in strasbourg to walk away from this case and its lessons.
crime and responsibility and judgment are matters for the courts, but investigation and the plugging of legal loopholes are our responsibility; so is helping acp countries to meet high standards in hazardous waste disposal; so is helping the victims of these appalling events – we think particularly of the children in the ivory coast who have been made to suffer because of them; so is ensuring that the commission and the dutch authorities and the eea and the government of the ivory coast all do their best to identify and pursue the perpetrators of this crime.
mr president, environmental issues are extremely important and central, and it is therefore good that they have been discussed here in parliament today.
the council takes the illegal shipments of waste and the threat they pose to the environment and human health very seriously.
we must also honestly admit that the monitoring of waste shipments within and from the european union also needs to be improved, as evidenced by the studies carried out.
it is also important to remember that, as unfortunate as these isolated cases are, which receive a great deal of public attention, such as the recent case of probo koala in côte d'ivoire, we must also remember to pay attention to the everyday events and situations that cause damage to health and the environment that we still have at our disposal, such as the scrapping of ships in the poor conditions of developing countries.
it is also necessary to see and acknowledge and recognise that there are considerable differences in the national criminal law of the member states concerning the environment.
in other member states, the penal provisions are very modern, including for environmental offences, while in some member states there may well be a need to update these provisions to reflect modern risks and how to respond to them.
the council takes environmental crime and its fight very seriously.
mr president, i should like to thank the chairman of the committee on the environment, public heath and food safety, mr florenz, and all the other speakers for their very positive contributions to today’s debate.
with regard to the question of whether a ship carrying hazardous waste is allowed to leave a european union port, if the waste is hazardous it is not allowed to go to a destination outside the oecd.
that also applies to slops – the ship’s own waste water – that contain hazardous substances.
i will continue to follow closely all developments in the criminal investigations and proceedings that are currently being conducted in the netherlands and estonia regarding the toxic waste dumping in côte d’ivoire.
in 2005, 51% of the waste shipments checked were found to be illegal.
most of the cases do not make big headlines but they can, nevertheless, pose a serious risk to the environment and human health.
we must make it very clear that our society does not tolerate environmental crime and that we are determined to take all possible steps to fight it.
but legislation that we have adopted to better protect our environment and the health of our citizens will not achieve its objectives if we do not take the necessary measures to ensure that it is properly enforced.
i can assure you that the commission is determined that environmental legislation should be properly applied throughout the community.
we are already taking a number of specific initiatives in order to ensure that the european union waste shipment regulation is correctly applied and illegal waste shipments are prevented and reduced.
this includes the preparation of guidelines to be adopted in connection with the application of the new waste shipment regulation next year and the organisation of awareness-raising events in member states.
the commission meets representatives of national authorities responsible for waste shipments on a regular basis.
one of the many measures taken by the commission for this purpose was to propose a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
the commission thinks it is necessary to amend its proposal of 2001 after the court’s ruling, to ensure that all criminal law measures necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the community’s policy for the protection of the environment are included in the proposal.
the aim is that only those steps which are necessary for the effective implementation of environmental policy should be taken at community level.
in conclusion, i would like to emphasise again the importance of good cooperation between the commission and parliament in the forthcoming codecision procedure for the adoption of the directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
we have the same goals, namely to protect the environment by establishing minimum standards for the sanctioning of environmental offences and to try to eliminate the possibility of safe havens for environmental offenders in the european union.
the dumping of toxic waste by the dutch firm trafigura in the city of abidjan in the ivory coast is a disgrace which requires full investigation and tough action.
this environmental crime will once again create the view that the rich north regards poor africa as a suitable dumping ground.
in this parliament we are often at the forefront of the campaigns for better environmental protection.
we are fond of stating that pollution does not respect borders.
and yet, in 2006 we are witness to a situation in which 500 tonnes of toxic waste is transported from an eu member state and dumped upon the long-suffering people of côte d’ivoire.
if our grand statements on environmental protection are to mean anything, then the commission and the dutch authorities must make a full investigation in pursuit of the culprits in this crime.
in the eu, we must act to ensure that our legislation on toxic waste is such that we can guarantee to people in africa that their countries will not be dumping grounds for our hazardous waste.
first of all, transport emissions within the european union.
i know that you are sending the national allocation plans back to the member states and saying that a 15% margin between allocations and real co2 emissions is far from good enough.
finally, looking ahead to the post 2012 emissions trading scheme, how are you going to make it work in future?
not only is this against the spirit of the treaty, which states that the ecb is independent, it is also largely a waste of time, because, as always, the ecb will listen politely but, quite rightly, take little notice.
i welcome this vote on the export of toxic waste to africa.
the recent incident involving a dutch company dumping waste in the ivory coast demonstrates that many in europe still see africa as a dumping ground.
it is clear that many companies and individuals routinely abuse laws designed to protect the environment.
they often find it cheaper to pay fines than to comply with laws on dumping or transporting toxic waste.
if we want to protect the environment we must consider criminal as well as civil action against the abusers.
one of the most important issues facing the world today is the issue of climate change and how to tackle it.
one thing we are most pleased about is the fact that the whole idea of good environmental status has been reinserted into the proposals and given a clear definition, and we are united on there being powers to create marine protected zones.
when it came out of dg environment they were, but by the time it emerged from the college some of these crucial matters had been deleted.
the time has come for the commission to back up its fine words on sustainability with some united action from the commissioners of each department.
as i understand it, we are committed to maximising the potential of our indigenous energy resources.
it is also the case that the extraction of hydrocarbons in the north sea is already well regulated in all its environmental and ecological aspects.
yet certain amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety will effectively stop exploitation of these resources.
do we want to hobble our few indigenous energy resources and become even more dependent on one or two dominant, and often domineering, external suppliers?
clearly it is in scotland’s long-term interests to protect the marine environment and to conserve its wealth of marine resources for the long term.
the idea that member states should determine what good environmental status is in waters under their jurisdiction, and work with their neighbours in logical marine regions, makes a lot of sense.
i invite the commissioner to come and join my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy.
i must also protest at the threats being issued by the uk government, which tells us that if we vote against voluntary modulation it will compromise the future of the popular agri-environment schemes in which many uk farmers have participated.
this is tantamount to blackmail and coming from a government that has imposed more than 80 stealth taxes, from a chancellor – gordon brown – who has made taxation in the uk higher than germany or france and now wants us to believe that he needs to slash 25% off our farmers’ single-farm payments in order to be able to afford agri-environment schemes, it is an absolute joke.
i must say to the commission, the council and the uk government that they should not blame us if now they do not have sufficient funds to support some of their proposals for the rural and environmental development of the countryside.
in default of some further degree of modulation, there would be severe constraints on establishing and maintaining effective rural development programmes, particularly in relation to the environment.
as mr stevenson said, the government is putting enormous pressure on us to say that we are against environmental schemes.
the environment will also benefit from the system, because it will shorten routes and reduce stacking and thus reduce the co2 emissions caused by aviation.
we need a new-generation air traffic management system for europe to improve air transport safety and environmental performance.
opening up the seat as a discussion point would unnecessarily waste time and could prolong the establishment phase of the joint undertaking.
this is a point which will not be lost on those meps who deplore the waste of time, money and energy caused by the failure to locate parliament permanently in brussels.
as members will be aware, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety subsequently adopted an amendment, which i tabled, introducing an exemption for this long-established traditional european art.
i would point out to the commissioner that we are not talking about the general introduction of new mercury into the environment – the vast majority of these makers actually use recycled mercury taken out of the environment in the production of these new instruments.
the banning of new barometers will not stop pollution; in fact it could become more prevalent as the general public would have nowhere to take their instruments.
it is bioaccumulative and persistent in the environment and there is no safe exposure level.
i hope that the ppe-de group will support this very sensible measure to phase out an extremely dangerous chemical from our environment.
the environmental and health threat posed is, i would suggest, so miniscule as to be out of all proportion to the devastating ban which this directive would impose on future production of barometers.
the marine environment requires protection and conservation.
the conclusion of good environmental status should be welcomed.
however, in supporting amendment 91 we clarify that oil and gas exploitation in the marine environment can continue, subject to international rules.
mercury is extremely toxic, bioaccumulative and persistent in the environment.
there are no safe exposure levels and yet mercury is getting into our waste stream from discarded household products containing mercury.
despite such resistance, step by step reform has already led to a relative decline in cap spending and a switch from spending on price support to support for more environmental improvements, income support and rural development.
the introduction of voluntary modulation of the cap would have provided for a sustainable approach to rural development.
we have no desire to be part of the single currency, but neither do we have any wish for the project to fail, as we believe that there is a uk national interest in there being a strong european economy with a stable currency that provides a good trading environment for british business and industry.
as an oceanographer, i am delighted to support this report on the strategy on the marine environment.
it has been seen as fisheries policy writ large, but now, with the commission paper on maritime policy currently out for consultation – i recently participated in a conference on the subject in weymouth organised by the south west regional development agency – this report and the lienemann report voted earlier today, it looks as if we are going to finally move away from a one-dimensional maritime policy to a policy that embraces our seas, oceans and coasts as vital for food and the environment, transport and tourism.
we will of course study the proposals on combating climate change put forward by the green group, represented by mr jonckheer.
rest assured that we are keen to maintain our world-leading position on this issue and have made commitments to the european commission to strengthen the emissions trading scheme, to give greater importance to renewable energy and to work towards achieving better levels of energy efficiency.
as regards the issue of climate change, i would like to say that we consider it to be closely linked to the energy issue.
in this area, we are indeed seeing the emergence of a cluster which can enable us to achieve a synthesis between the concerns of those who, like you, have greater ambition in terms of the environment, and those who, like others, have greater ambition in terms of competitiveness.
the fight against climate change, the fight for a coherent energy policy, the fight for a more competitive europe, but also a strong europe with a sustainable and solidarity-based economy, which of course requires greater investment in our innovation, are increasingly needed.
this is the common thread that connects the fields of innovation, energy, climate change, justice, home affairs, but also innovation and education.
as others have said, we are very pleased to see as well this continued mention of sustainable development and linkage with climate change, which is something we have long argued for, and i agree entirely with what mrs ek was saying about environmentally-driven growth.
we therefore look forward to the action plan on sustainable production and consumption next year, which we assume will be a move forward in terms of eco-efficiency and in spelling out how we are to decouple environmental damage from growth.
we assume this will also include environmental factors, given that we know that the poorest people often live in the poorest and most degraded environments and housing, with the effects that has on mental health.
finally, we would have welcomed something that picked up on the sustainable development strategy as regards the issue of targeted training for professions in helping to meet climate change requirements.
if you cannot fit solar panels and cannot repair your energy systems, you are not going to meet your climate change targets.
madam president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, i thank our commissioners for the work we do with them – often constructive, often with great thought, often with what i hope is constructive criticism.
linked to that, in terms of better legislation, we look forward to the development of environmental and health impact assessments in such a way that they are seen to, and really do, contain an element of independent assessment.
healthy people and a healthy environment are prerequisites for healthy economic growth, competitiveness and jobs.
the environment goes hand-in-hand with growth and jobs.
eco-innovation is a major component in winning the fight against global warming.
in other words, the eu must act swiftly and decisively when there are infringements of the social or environmental standards in question.
each member state must now ensure free access to its territory and it must be equally clear that the right to maintain national rules, to protect public policy, public health, security or the environment, must not mean that legitimate protection turns into negative protectionism.
parliament has played a significant role in allowing freer movement of services across eu borders without undermining social services, trade union rights or environmental laws.
we must waste no time in deploying international and military observers in gaza.
i agree with the commission that an interinstitutional agreement is sorely needed, but if it is blocked i would ask the commission to consider a regulation on the basis of article 308.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
first, i would like to stress our view of the importance of further exploitation of offshore wind energy in the baltic and the demonstration of different types of wave energy concepts.
we want to cooperate on energy matters that ensure respect for the principles of reciprocity and transparency and we want to encourage russia to ratify the energy charter treaty and the energy charter protocol on transit.
thirdly, we invite northern dimension member countries to be aware of the importance of two eu programmes in our committee’s area of responsibility: galileo and sesar, because we believe that the commitment of northern dimension parties to both of these would reinforce sustainable growth and competitiveness in the region.
the reason, for example, that the eu-russia embellishment process has been stalled, as we know, is that poland has a reserve over russia’s refusal to ratify the energy charter.
i regret that fact because i feel that we are, therefore, neglecting the big geopolitical issues that face us in the high north that find their focus in climate change, in energy supply, in marine resources.
it is conceived as a way of working with the countries of europe’s northern regions to increase prosperity, strengthen security and resolutely combat dangers such as the environmental pollution of the baltic sea, nuclear risks such as those posed by the russian submarine fleet in the kola peninsula, cross-border crime and the management of marine resources, amongst others.
our strategic partnership and our collective eu needs for energy security, as well as cooperation in the fight against terrorism and the need to carry russia in areas like preventing nuclear proliferation from countries like iran and north korea, transcend regional issues such as those addressed by the northern dimension.
climate change is making the arctic more accessible to human activities now, such as exploitation of natural resources and increased shipping, but the arctic also has an important role to play as an early-warning sign for potentially catastrophic global climate change.
russia’s energy exports can also be a political weapon, we have now discovered, as we saw last year in ukraine and this year with georgia.
i call upon president putin to get around to ratifying the eu energy charter, which would give all eu companies more access to russian oil and gas.
the eu must also invest more in renewables and low-carbon energy, while encouraging as much diversity in supply as possible.
we have to show our citizens that the european union can work on energy policy, on issues like mobile phone roaming charges, and in particular on justice and home affairs.
surely we cannot achieve greater competitiveness, a strengthened social partnership, improvements to a common energy policy and so forth without a substantive improvement to part iii?
recently, nato released a report suggesting that russia is planning a ‘gas opec’ with algeria, qatar, uzbekistan and kazakhstan, which would be a serious threat to the eu’s external energy security interests.
one way of responding to this, particularly after russia’s refusal to sign the energy charter treaty, is to tell president nazarbayev of kazakhstan, on his visit to brussels next week, that his country, like its ethnic cousin azerbaijan, would be welcome in the european neighbourhood policy, rather than kazakhstan joining russia, ukraine and belarus in the yalta treaty’s single economic space.
bulgaria is one of many countries in europe facing an energy gap in the years ahead, with increasing reliance on energy imports from russia and areas of instability.
i am a great believer in safe, sustainable energy resources that minimise carbon emissions, as well as diversity and security of supply.
the mood has changed and there is wide recognition that nuclear energy must play a stronger role.
this will give time for more attention to be given to redressing the economic consequences of premature closure and for progress to be made in creating additional sources of energy supply.
taking energy as an example, it is crucial to look at things like the technology platforms and the zero emissions platform.
that is the kind of thing that will make a real difference to climate change.
in addition, aids treatments in the developing world will not, and cannot, be sustainable unless there is a supply of the newer versions of generic medicines, which are increasingly needed as drugs-resistant cases of hiv/aids become more frequent.
however, whatever we do in terms of employment, it is of little use to disabled people unless they have access to the built environment or to transport facilities.
(applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i will vote against this report, mainly because i believe iter to be an example of ‘big science’ that wastes money that would be best put to other r&d projects that would do far more for eu competitivity and energy self-sufficiency than this enormous ‘boondoggle’.
this clearly emphasises the need for an environment that enables disabled people to be as independent as possible.
it is some seven years since reach was first announced to ministers at the environment council.
i hope it will enable us to identify, control and replace chemicals that are detrimental to our health and environment.
on the contrary, it is very much a step in the right direction and, if our hopes are realised, it may prove to be one of the most significant measures this union has ever taken, of real long-term advantage both to our economy and our environment.
it is also completely unnecessary: the second reading in the environment committee gave the rapporteur a clear mandate to push for mandatory substitution for all chemical substances of high concern when safer alternatives exist.
during the first reading in the environment committee, i tabled a completely non-animal test strategy, which was adopted.
i saw the majorities obtained in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and there was no majority to get anything better than what we have on the table this evening.
but we have to strike a balance – a balance between strong environmental and health protection, phased but comprehensive gathering of data on all chemicals, legal certainty, protection of intellectual property for businesses and minimising the need for animal testing through data sharing and the promotion and validation of non-animal test methods.
(the speaker spoke irish) the original intention of the reach directive was to give proper protection for workers, consumers and the environment, while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry.
we all know the effect of russian sovietism on russia’s own and the global environment.
the main objective of this decision is to determine what action needs to be taken for the achievement of a simple and paperless environment for customs and trade.
it also extremely awkward to treat for pollution, even when the source of pollutants has been removed.
i broadly support the intentions of the new directive, which would help preserve scotland’s reputation of having a clean, unspoiled environment.
i voted in favour of the klaß report on the protection of groundwater against pollution.
parliament has stuck steadfastly to its view that member state governments must do far more to prevent this type of pollution, such as arsenic, biocides and cyanide.
i thank all speakers in the debate and, in particular, the committee on employment and social affairs for its serious work in a difficult and challenging global environment.
the next item on the agenda is the report by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type approval of motor vehicles with respect to emissions and on access to vehicle repair information, amending directive 72/306/eec and directive .../.../ec (com(2005)0683 – c6-0007/2006 – 2005/0282(cod)) (a6-0301/2006).
the report is balanced because it not only tackles air pollution at source but also takes into account the very legitimate concerns of a very successful european industry.
as previous speakers have outlined, the timetable that has been agreed is based on the package adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, euro 5 and euro 6 coming into force in 2009 and 2014 respectively.
although reduction of nox is very desirable, it must be remembered that will be achieved at the expense of increased co2 emissions.
we must not forget that these vehicles are essential for many users and that there are very legitimate reasons for them to be covered by these specific provisions, which have slightly higher limits to reflect the fact that emissions increase with vehicle mass.
in this regulation we must avoid giving manufacturers a perverse incentive to simply replace diesel engines with petrol engines in these vehicles, with the resultant increase in c02 emissions that we all want to see avoided.
written statement (rule 142)
in dealing with any matter related to environmental pollution it is essential that we strike a balance between the necessity for economic progress and offering a real opportunity for a reduction in emissions and thereby reducing the risks to health.
it is clear that we need to make stronger efforts to address the problem of vehicle emissions deriving from the use of fossil fuels.
it is necessary to have sensible limit values for emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
enlargement itself requires none of this, but europhile fanatics like our two rapporteurs, devoid of sustainable arguments to overcome popular opposition to the constitution, have come up with this spurious spin that enlargement demands a constitution.
breast milk, the best source of essential nutrients for a baby, is currently being affected by dangerous chemicals found in the environment, passing through the mother’s body.
manufacturers would have a duty of care to protect human health and the environment.
the adoption of this legislation is a big step forward for the protection of people and the environment from potentially dangerous chemicals.
furthermore, european ministers (in november) and the ep committee on the environment, public health and food safety (last week) approved the world health organization's call for the introduction of strict legislation in this area.
i supported this compromise package which will ensure the motor industry is forced to produce greener and cleaner cars which will help to reduce pollution.
it will encourage the motor vehicle industry to invest in the technology to make cars greener and to help to protect our environment.
we also welcome any sensible measures that promote the environment and the fight against global poverty.
in fact, i understand that the council secretariat is preparing a letter saying, ‘please, if things don’t get better soon, we may have to ask you to stop helping us!’ i would like to address three issues that are on the agenda for the summit: enlargement, energy and migration.
on energy, the great worry of my group, president-in-office, is that the european union is in danger of being held hostage.
what we urgently need to do in europe is to cut consumption by motor vehicles and electrical equipment; cut consumption of heating through better design of buildings; cut the consumption of electronic equipment; and increase production of safe, sustainable energy sources – biomass, as proposed by the commission, and renewables, perhaps through research by moving to a hydrogen economy or looking into nuclear fusion.
we need to liberalise markets, because one of the reasons we do not have a proper energy policy in europe is that we do not have a proper liberalisation of the market.
as we head to this summit i suspect that the headlines will be about the turkish debate, and perhaps we will hear more about climate change.
we can also apply the same principle to member states in other areas as the commission did yesterday in taking action about opening up energy markets and on economic reform.
mr president, yesterday the president, faced with a directive about a paperless environment, whispered ‘dream on’.
it was funded by eu taxpayers at eur 2.5 million and this directive will now be a eur 2.5 million waste of paper.
i conclude that the entire proposal should be placed in the waste paper basket and recycled, but not into another wet blanket, please.
on top of this, there is an increasing awareness of the climate change agenda.
if we are to stem the tide of the effects that humans are having on the environment, we surely have to start by making radical changes in the way we use and produce energy.
this is one of the greatest contributions that parliament has made to this debate, putting citizens and consumers right back into the centre of the energy debate.
if we are to take on these challenges the consumer has to be involved and we have to recognise that energy poverty is a real issue for millions of our citizens.
energy efficiency is surely the most cost-effective way of meeting some of the energy challenges we face, and the commission has come up with a very comprehensive action plan on energy consumption and energy efficiency.
it is imperative that we try to make the european union the most energy-efficient economy in the world by 2020. this is a great example of a situation where we already have reams of legislation in place and member states are ignoring the laws that they have signed up to.
we have to reach a stage where we cut our energy consumption by 20%.
for too long, many member states have been more concerned about getting the best deal for their national energy champions than helping or providing benefits for the consumer.
why is it that in the uk last year 19% of the public switched energy companies, while in france the figure was less than 2%?
is it because all the citizens in france and in germany are happy with their energy suppliers?
that is why we have to do something very serious in opening up and unbundling the energy networks.
security of supply and sustainability have to go hand-in-hand.
we have to use mechanisms such as the emissions trading scheme to drive the economy.
energy mix is up to member states, but let us be sensible and acknowledge that the energy mix in one country will affect others, and that is why we need targets on cutting co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. we are insistent on binding sectoral targets of 25% in renewable energies.
that means no less than a revolution in the way that many member states produce their energy.
we spend pitiful amounts on research and development and we have to work towards a truly common european energy policy in external affairs.
i hope, commissioner, you will take on some of our ideas and we look forward to receiving your ideas on the strategic energy review in the new year.
mr president, there are over 100 clauses in this report on energy security, and nearly all of them call on the commission to do something: to fix the carbon trading scheme, to foster investment in the european energy market, to encourage energy efficiency, to do more and more.
but when national energy security is at stake, all the commission’s powers will not be enough, and nations will look after themselves.
my biggest worry, however, is that so much of what we are asking for, such as trying to meet impossible targets for carbon dioxide and renewables, pays little regard to the economic cost.
mr president, you cannot have an open market in energy and a workable policy of energy-sharing without transparent competition.
with monopoly goes subsidised inefficiency and higher prices and so it would be for consumers in my constituency of northern ireland if we became a minority part of an energy market dominated by an unreformed esb.
i would like to congratulate my colleague eluned morgan on an excellent report which points the way towards a ‘green’ energy policy for europe.
i particularly support her call for a radical reform of the emissions trading scheme to create a low carbon economy driven by a set target for a reduction of eu carbon emissions of 30% by 2020 and 60-80% by 2050. she is correct to call for enhanced r&d on clean energy technologies and for a step-change in energy efficiency.
i hope when eu leaders meet next march to discuss energy policy they all have a copy of this report in front of them and that they take its recommendations seriously.
i support the measures on double-hulling that should help diminish maritime pollution from oil tankers, which are particularly important for the yorkshire coast and the humber estuary.
we saw in scotland the disaster that the wreck of the braer inflicted upon the shetland islands and we must do all we can to ensure the safety of our european marine environment and our coastlines.
i voted in favour of the morgan report on european energy strategy.
i am convinced it points the right way forward for a sustainable, competitive and secure energy policy for europe and one that the heads of government would do well to take careful note of when they meet in march to discuss the future of eu energy policy.
my one disappointment is that the parliament was not stronger on the need to ‘unbundle’ energy ownership to avoid conflicts of interest and to create a more level playing field for energy competition.
in voting for this report i voted to put consumers at the centre of energy policy alongside an effective approach to dealing with harmful emissions such as co2.
the effectiveness of a sensible carbon tax trading scheme depends upon internationalising the market.
furthermore, strong targets for 2020-2050 for reduction of co2 emissions as pronounced in this report are the only reasonable way ahead.
however, tidying up the ets in both methodology and targets is something the eu must crucially put into action to remain a world leader in both working for a cleaner environment as well as sustaining a pan-european energy policy.
there is a danger that unless action is taken now then both our environment and our energy security will be under threat.
the union's energy markets are increasingly interlinked and interdependent, and it is right that an eu framework be created to ensure that our consumers benefit from our common market.
from a scottish perspective, we have a particular stake in the energy debate given our massive energy resources and even greater energy potential.
you praise the idea of a common energy policy and increasing activism in foreign affairs.