i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the tax on the use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
so i will be engaging vigorously with all my partners in the weeks ahead to see if the negotiating material and the energy are still there for an ambitious and balanced outcome.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn.
and at the same time, opening up markets to natural resources will have devastating consequences for the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the marine environment is not compromised.
the old request to exclude from the scope of the directive shipping services, which are not commercial activities but are a service to society as a whole and aim at the safety of shipping, the protection of ports and the marine environment, was not heeded.
the lack of policy will therefore lead to a long period of uncertainty and certainly not to an investment climate.
you mentioned, commissioner, that you were trying to make the european sugar industry in the european union sustainable.
thirdly, the aid of eur 80 per hectare of land under energy crops and the increase in the total area allowed from 1.8 to 2.8 million hectares.
it is important because there is a move towards an environmentally friendly form of energy.
the problem of water scarcity in the mediterranean is exacerbated by increased demand for water in certain sectors and regions and by the effects of climate change.
on climate change, i would point out that it is scientifically difficult to argue that individual droughts are directly linked to climate change; however, we know that climate change is contributing to more extreme events that are occurring more frequently and over larger geographical areas.
we have asked for, and have been given, a report by the european union joint research centre on the relationship between climate change and water, water scarcity and droughts.
in general, the protection of our water resources is one of the priorities of the european union's environmental policy.
water is one of the priorities of the short-term environmental planning action programme, known as smpar, which is implemented at regional level.
if we want to replace sugar beets with energy crops, let's be more generous with subsidies.
we also owe it to the environment.
because power plants mean we're protecting the environment.
the importance of this is crucial for the future course of environmental policy.
particular emphasis should be placed on the need for a comprehensive provision of electronically digitized information, which will lay the foundations for a proper implementation of citizen participation in all environmental control and awareness-raising processes.
finally, it is of great importance that the public sector responds immediately and vigorously to all aspects of the report and the proposed actions, because in several countries the public sector is also the provider of the largest volume of environmental information.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
further price falls and increased competition will have negative consequences both for safety and environmental protection.
the neighbourhood policy should be linked to the implementation of the european security strategy, notably in the areas of the fight against international terrorism, organised crime, energy security and environmental challenges.
the critical international energy situation requires the european union to harmonize and integrate its energy markets with those of the countries of the neighbourhood policy.
this special relationship will offer economic and other advantages in areas such as infrastructure, energy, the environment and transport that will provide an incentive for integration into the commonwealth.
however, i can also tell you that during the energy crisis the regional dimension was also apparent.
in the energy field as a whole we are trying to work towards an integrated energy market.
other questions, such as on gas and energy, will certainly be important points.
the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the report by mrs dominique vlasto, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the european charter for small enterprises (2005/2123 (ini)) (a6-0405/2005).
if we want to achieve our goals in europe - stable, sustainable growth and full employment - then we can only do this with the help of small and mediumsized enterprises.
i really believe that the significant improvement in the policy environment for smes that we have achieved over the past year is precisely because we have given this policy its proper and proper place in the growth and employment policy of the european union.
the communication supports the european partnership for growth and employment, which recognises the importance of promoting an entrepreneurial culture in europe and creating a favourable policy environment for small and medium-sized enterprises.
this is also a matter of cultural, social and political environment.
we want sustainability in this sea.
mr president, one year after the adoption of the report on the council proposal on sustainable fisheries in the mediterranean, it is clear that there has been no council decision on its implementation.
at the same time, the mediterranean basin is constantly being populated by new populations, resulting in a continuous burden of industrial, urban or other waste with direct and serious negative impacts on fisheries.
the relevant proposals for regulations and draft reports before they are implemented should clearly include studies by the scientific community on the impact of environmental pollution, geological changes, population differences and the needs of fish consumption.
a form of violence is psychological: the humiliation, the threat, the abuse, that destabilize a woman's personality and disrupt her behavior so that she is incapable of contributing to her environment.
in order to make progress in the different phases of the negotiation process, serbia and montenegro must continue to cooperate very closely and in a sustainable manner with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
we are seeking to establish uniform european standards for services, to prevent social dumping and unfair competition by leveraging companies with more flexible social and environmental legislation.
i would like to ask the president-in-office to confirm that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
despite the rhetorical declarations against war, despite the rhetorical assurances that the eu does not question iran's right to peaceful use of nuclear energy, it is obvious that a planned aggressive plan of the imperialists to control energy sources and the wider region by any means is being implemented.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new legislation in the area of the environment.
increasingly, as technology advances, such instruments could also be used to manage traffic: congestion charges, emissions-related charges and so on.
one of the questions, for which the green paper specifically invites responses, is: ‘are voluntary codes (“self-regulation”) an adequate tool for limiting the advertising and marketing of energy-dense and micronutrient-poor foods?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the report also calls for the protection of farmers from the introduction of new technologies, especially genetically modified organisms, which have unforeseen negative effects on the environment, public health and farm incomes, as the rapporteur has pointed out.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the amendments proposed and voted for by the epp, the social democrats and the liberal group have reinforced the directive's reactionary character, as they: (a) extend the immunity of service monopolies to choose as their headquarters countries with an 'attractive business environment' - tax exemptions, low service quality standards, cheap and unqualified labour, no collective labour agreements, etc.
- to maximise their profitability; (b) they deal a severe blow to public-social services (education, water, waste management, safeguarding of dangerous materials, postal services, cultural services, social welfare, etc.)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the noise pollution of the air, and that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the noise pollution of the air.
and individual member states should have a tax and more general economic environment that attracts investment in individual member states.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and also the rapporteur, mr papadimoulis, for the really excellent report we are discussing today.
i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for the excellent cooperation we had within the committee on the environment, which led to my report and some amendments to the commission's original proposal being adopted almost unanimously - by 49 votes to one.
the amendments which i have tabled, which were adopted by the committee on the environment and which are included in the report, focus, ladies and gentlemen, on four main points: the first is to change the legal basis, which will allow the european parliament to put things in a more appropriate context and, above all, to move beyond a purely advisory role and to become involved in the co-decision process, so that the institution which is closest to the european citizens will then be able to exert greater influence on decision-making.
in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that tomorrow's vote, with the same consensus as that which we had in the committee on the environment, will send a clear message to the european citizens and to the council, as we have done in the past with a series of resolutions on natural and man-made disasters.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
in this sense, preventive measures and measures to protect health and the environment are needed, which are the responsibility of the public authorities alone and not of the ngos, and which naturally require adequate resources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a step in the right direction.
the same applies to procedural rights, i have to say that the austrian presidency is putting a lot of energy into trying to reach an agreement and in my view the legal basis does not seem to be an obstacle.
the sustainable exploitation of the seas is a common desire and a common aspiration, and we must all work towards that.
it cannot be a commodity for capital profits, because access to water is a fundamental right, closely linked to health, environmental protection, development and quality of life.
the attack of european capital is intensifying and embracing all the key links, with the invasion of capital and the commodification of health, education, energy, the dismantling of labour relations, the eradication of any conquests of the working class with the new attack on its insurance and pension rights.
now our energy is focused on a peaceful unification in south-east europe.
the eu perspective is the key to a sustainable settlement for kosovo and to democratic development in serbia and the rest of the region.
we cannot therefore - and we will not - rest on our laurels, but we must commit ourselves to continue working in all these areas you have mentioned: health care, social dialogue, sustainability, gender issues, educational opportunities and many other issues.
i am in favour of liberalisation, but i agree it must also take account of social cohesion and social stability, social rights, questions of energy, and of course education.
what we would like to achieve, with more trade, is also the creation of more jobs – that means more jobs for more young people – as also, of course, trying to provide the right prospects for the labour market, and sustainable development that takes account of social and environmental imperatives.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
the emphasis is also on actions such as the impact of the environment on health, and the collection of data on under-fertility, infertility and sterility, which are becoming a scourge for ageing european societies, already threatened by the demographic problem.
we agree with the majority of the findings, which confirm the degradation of the environment, the destruction of forest ecosystems and the continued loss of biodiversity.
for example, community regulations have liberalised the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in agricultural production and food production, which threaten the environment and biodiversity.
we strongly disagree with the motion for a resolution which 'calls on the european commission and the member states to show leadership and conviction by agreeing to and facilitating tangible measures to protect biodiversity, both domestically and internationally', because it calls for 'wolves to shepherd the sheep'.
we call on the people's movement and its organisations (trade unions, environmental organisations, agencies, etc.)
to fight for measures and policies that will prevent further environmental degradation, forest destruction and biodiversity loss.
we cannot take serious steps towards a common energy policy, nor can we achieve cheaper and better technology for renewable sources and energy saving with the money allocated by the seventh framework programme for these objectives.
the steps you propose for the common energy policy will not be able to combat the practices of the cartels which dominate - and rule - at the expense of consumers and of a united europe in the field of energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
mr president, energy supply and the exploitation of all energy sources is a political choice which must aim at addressing all the people's needs, such as reducing energy dependence, saving energy, safeguarding the safety of the inhabitants, protecting the environment, and protecting energy products as a social good and not as a commodity.
the green paper is also moving in the same direction as the lisbon strategy of competitiveness and anti-people sentiment, even using renewable energy sources as a vehicle for private capital to enter the energy sector.
the appeal to environmental protection is hypocritical and conceals the european union's intellectual aims of accelerating liberalization, promoting relevant community products and reducing dependence on imported fuels.
the solution can be found in a single energy sector, which will be the property of the people and will operate within the framework of an economy in which the basic means of production are socialised.
this will address the critical issues and ensure that energy is not a commodity but a social good.
mr president, the importance of community subsidies to new and more energy-efficient technologies for renewable energy sources is now beyond doubt.
moreover, by promoting the diversification of energy sources - not to mention wind and solar energy - from and through countries, we will help to create new conditions for growth, employment and sustainable development.
it should also be stressed that the harmonization of the internal energy market must aim at protecting consumers and not imposing a burden on them, policies which cannot be ensured by the operation of oligopolistic concentrations.
finally, i would say that, in conjunction with the increase in investment in new forms of energy which are more environmentally friendly, the promotion of green taxation can be achieved.
mr president, commissioner, in the past and even now, great conflicts and wars have been fought for two reasons: firstly, energy and secondly, water.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading of the report by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the guidelines for transeuropean energy networks and repealing decision 96/391/ec and decision no (10720/1/2005 - c6-0016/2006 - 2003/0297 ((cod)) (a6-0071/2006).
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
gas from russia, oil from the middle east, energy that will continue to get more expensive because of the over-demand from china and india.
the eu and the us, together with the other imperialist powers, are selectively opening markets, abolishing subsidies for agricultural products - at the expense of small and medium-sized farmers - in order to penetrate the markets of developing and less developed countries, to fully control industrial products, the provision of services and the predatory exploitation of water, energy, etc., to maximize its profitability.
the many alibis: population ageing to raise retirement age limits, energy security to privatise the energy sector and convert it from a social good into a commodity, reducing deficits as required by the stability pact through "containment" of public spending on popular needs, linking wages to productivity to ensure the reduction of wages and pensions.
the correct application of community legislation is a process which would enable europe in the medium term to reduce its bottlenecks and become more competitive in the international globalised environment, to the benefit of citizens, consumers and businesses.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
and when you talk about a common energy policy, you mean committing the states not to have their own national energy policy.
if they don't have their own national energy policy, it means they can't have better relations with the gulf countries that have oil or with russia that has energy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one.
after five years of failure, you are setting ambitious targets and even binding timetables for jobs, research, energy, development, and at the same time the budget is extremely eurocentric and lacks ambition.
by allocating 235 million euros to pay and buy up all kinds of eurotunnel champions and propagandists, it is mobilizing the agnostic mechanisms and the so-called ngos to foster a positive climate and to sow illusion among the people about the character and policy of the eu.
i have also drawn the attention of decision-makers and negotiators to the importance and urgency of this, and to the fact that it is impossible to announce growth strategies and job creation at european level without taking account of mobility and sustainability, for which the development of trans-european networks is an essential prerequisite.
it is hoped that the use of all the possibilities will at least mitigate the reduction in tens funding over the period 2007-13. as president of the transport, telecommunications and energy council, i myself have always stressed the importance of the implementation of the priority tens projects identified and, as i said, i have also drawn the attention of those responsible in these negotiations to this and put pressure on them wherever possible and appropriate.
and also, of the amount that has increased, about 500 million euros, what percentage is for energy and what for transport?
the transport projects of the railway axis no 23 are part of the national reform programmes (nrp) of the czech republic, poland and slovakia; the commission has already carried out economic studies, and has begun studies on the technical design and environmental impact.
i am very much in favour of the innovative possibilities and approaches already mentioned, including the use of private funds, to implement projects earlier than is possible, on the one hand in the interests of the economy, in the interests of employment, but above all in the interests of the environment and the population on many transit routes.
there is no time to waste.
in a provocative manner, it disdains and does not recognise the results of the elections in belarus, while it considers the elections in ukraine, which were held in a climate of violence and fraud, with the communist party of ukraine as a particular target, to be 'democratic'.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
the potential damage to the economic benefit that nuclear power plants can bring to the energy problem is very great.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the people of the community.
it is very important to promote, through the european development funds, the principles of democratisation, good governance and equal opportunities in order to achieve the dual objective of sustainable development in the beneficiary countries and more efficient use of resources, as we are obliged to do by the european parliament as elected representatives of the european citizens.
despite the commission's involvement in the process, member states should be actively involved in the implementation and development of the index, as they are the only ones who can provide further information on various factors affecting language proficiency, such as television, family environment, number of teaching hours, teaching experience and others.
in conclusion, i cannot help but mention the living example of multilingualism and its importance in this room: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
we are heading for an ecological disaster.
it is the pollution, it is the various engineering projects, it is a host of other factors.
the one that doesn't have an energy policy.
we have a number of examples to describe to people the costs of non-europe: energy policy and the fact that we do not have a foreign affairs minister, etc.
whether it is energy policy, tackling unemployment or fighting crime and terrorism, we have to take action.
the new programme, like the old one, aims to reduce congestion on the road network, improve the environmental performance of the transport system, and strengthen intermodal transport to help build an efficient and sustainable transport system.
this programme was designed in the impact study so that one euro of grant for marco polo ii generates more than €6 in social and environmental benefits for society.
it is time to include the manufacturing and logistics sector more actively in a coherent strategy for sustainable development.
it is a successful development of the european union's transport policy that we are discussing today the marco polo ii programme, which is intended to promote alternative and environmentally friendly modes of transport, which will contribute to the competitiveness of our economy and at the same time to the quality of our environment and our lives.
mr rack also works to promote and strengthen the balance between transport capacity, cost reduction, pollution and road traffic, thus contributing to the objective of drastically reducing accidents, which is a primary objective of the european union.
the kke group in the european parliament points out that the drastic 50% cut in the financial envelope from eur 740 to eur 400 million, as well as the criteria for selecting projects for the implementation of the marco polo ii programme for the period 2007-2013, are aimed at increasing the profits of big business and will not alleviate - much less solve - the serious problems associated with the large and increasing traffic congestion in domestic and international freight transport, which results both in an increase in accidents and in disastrous consequences for the environment.
two measures and two weights are also used to allow the export to third countries of certain processed animal proteins derived from non-ruminants, in order to save on destruction costs by using third countries for eu waste.
however, growth and employment must be our main objective, to which the lisbon strategy must contribute in particular, with policies which must complement and adapt to the new dynamic environment brought about by globalisation and the interdependence of economies.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the report by luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on natural disasters (fires, drought and floods) - agricultural aspects (2005/2195 (ini)) (a6-0152/2006), the report by gerardo galeote quecedo, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on natural disasters (fires, drought and floods) - aspects of regional development (2005/2193 (ini)) (a6-0147/2006), the report by edrela estite, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and fisheries, on natural disasters (fires, drought and floods) - agricultural aspects (a6-0152/2006), the proposal by the european parliament to the council (com (2005) 0126 - c6-0132/2005), the proposal by the european parliament to the council (com (2005) 0106 - c6-0132/2005), the proposal by the commission to the council (com (2005) 0128 - c00-0132/2005), the proposal by the european parliament to the council (com (2005) 0128-0146 - c0128-024) and the proposal by the commission to the european parliament, on the environment, environment and rural development, natural disassociation, environment and rural development, natural disaspects,
mr president, at a time when euroscepticism is growing in some member states, i believe that the european union cannot remain indifferent to the problem of natural disasters, but also indifferent to the citizens affected by them.
the report's references to poverty, the environment, labour rights, etc., are a challenge to the peoples who are suffering under imperialist domination and capitalist exploitation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are compensated for the damage they have caused to the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
however, we cannot ignore the fact that the frequency of unpredictable natural phenomena and the risk to the viability of rural households are a consequence of the predatory exploitation of natural resources and the commercialisation of the environment, a policy which is the cause and which the eu unfortunately promotes with tragic consequences.
the transition to a more harmonised bilateral regulatory environment.
i mention, among others, the promotion of common principles and values such as democracy, the rule of law, the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms, the broadening of the thematic scope of the world trade order, effective international environmental protection, the fight against terrorism and organised crime and the establishment of a new financial architecture.
the same, ladies and gentlemen, mr mandelson, is true within the european union: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the community.
i was proud to tell them that the european union is sensitive to environmental issues, unlike other large countries such as the united states, china, india and so on.
a turkish mp, speaking, pointed out that the danube is the main cause of pollution of the euxine river along with other rivers that flow into it.
the river has been a means of communication, a major transportation, trade, agriculture and fishing route, but over time, industrial and municipal waste is causing the river to die.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my political group agrees that groundwater is the most sensitive aquatic ecosystem, the most important source of water for human consumption, but also a key component of other ecosystems such as rivers and lakes.
groundwater quality has suffered greatly, affecting both the environment and public health and the economy.
in addition, we do not have sufficient information on the relationship between the evolution of the animal ecosystem and the use of groundwater, so we do not know the damage that groundwater pollution does to the animal ecosystem.
the council must finally agree, because if we leave it to the discretion of the member states to avoid contamination of groundwater by harmful substances, we will be taking this case backwards in relation to existing legislation, whereas we must go forward, deal more effectively with major nitrate pollution, become more effective in the policy of prevention.
across europe, indeed, the time has come to take seriously the issue of the lack of infrastructure and the recording of available spatial information, especially in environmental and public health matters, to launch a new effort as the basis for a series of services to the citizen, services of a higher level, available to everyone, without restrictions, and most importantly, available to public services and other bodies and accessible via the internet.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
tourism, although primarily the domain of member states, is also strongly influenced by community policies, and we must therefore exhaust the possibilities for promoting sustainable european tourism through regional and rural policy.
it is about europe's ability to implement an effective strategy for sustainable development, investing in knowledge and in the future, a policy that will enable it to face international competition not through the degradation of workers and the dismantling of the welfare state but through investment in education, research, innovation and excellence.
it is also important that the energy sector was given €150 million, because it is vital to further the spread of renewable energy sources and the rational use of energy.
mr president, since last december the commission's communication and other modern media have been recording the speed of global change and new risks, but also the opposite trend towards a lasting and balanced three-dimensional development linking economic growth and quality of life with social inclusion and environmental protection.
by proposing the framework of the basic principles of the european union's sustainable development strategy in a way that complements the lisbon strategy, divided into six key areas, an attempt is made to integrate sustainability into european policy-making, both with an internal dimension and by taking into account the external impact of decisions and choices on the global space.
we reaffirm our political and humanitarian sensitivity and our awareness of our responsibilities towards future generations by advocating the effective implementation of a sustainability impact assessment of all european union initiatives.
economic prosperity, high living standards, the ecological effects of the single diffusion of goals into the potential of the natural world only make sense if they serve the citizens of today and tomorrow.
the european union must not only combat racism but also the social exclusion which is the greenhouse for the growth of racism.
the issue of sustainability in the use of biofuels is an important issue for the sustainable energy strategy of the european union in general.
we have indeed made it quite clear during the austrian presidency that europe must make greater progress in the future on the sustainability of biofuels as a principle of its policy.
it is absolutely clear to us - and we must also promote this together in europe - that the production of biofuels and biofuels, from biodiesel to ethanol, cannot be at the expense of the environment.
we must also apply the principle of sustainability to the production of biofuels in the european union.
it is also important - and i have been to several environmental conferences in recent months - that we also ensure that the principle of sustainability is taken into account internationally in the international trade in biofuels across the whole range of production with the different raw materials.
during the presidency, and especially at the march 2006 meeting, we discussed a reorientation of energy policy for europe, and this was particularly true of fuels.
the council and the commission, in a conclusion of 8 june 2006, called for proposals to promote the cost-effective and sustainable use of biomass for heating and cooling, to review legislation on animal by-products and to promote the use of agricultural and food by-products as a renewable energy source biogas is an important issue for the future and to simplify the administrative procedures for the production and use of bioenergy under the common agricultural policy and to assess the extension of the application of the energy crops regime to all member states; these are the cornerstones for the future of energy design.
the commission has also announced that it will present a communication on energy crops schemes by the end of 2006 - and i believe this is a key element - containing concrete proposals in this area.
what i mean by that is that we have, in the 2003 agrarian reform, in terms of sustainability and in terms of creating a new source of income for rural europe, we have taken measures to use 1.5 million hectares of renewable raw materials for the full range of alternative energy production in all areas, and we have, and we have to see this today, far from exploiting those 1.5 million hectares.
there is potential here, which may be expanded, and we are looking forward to the results of the evaluation and the commission's proposal, and we will have to deal intensively with these challenges of a sustainable energy policy in the coming months and years, both in the agriculture council and in the environment council.
sustainable and renewable energy production is the key to independence and to future energy production projects in europe.
it will be up to us, with the certification systems we implement, to ensure in detail that sustainable alternative energy supplies are also provided from other parts of the world, because we do not want all that you mentioned: deforestation of the rainforest, palm oil production under social and environmental criteria.
in austria, for example, we have defined cross-compliance conditions from the agricultural reform as the basis for energy production for the blending of biodiesel and ethanol in our country, i.e.
anything produced under ecological and social criteria and production conditions, under european criteria, can also be blended, no matter from which part of the world it comes.
as the minister for agriculture and the environment of my country, i have the strategic advantage of being in a win-win situation: the use of alternative energy sources not only reduces co2 emissions and thus contributes significantly to the achievement of the kyoto targets, but also creates value and jobs in rural areas, especially in remote rural regions of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
they raise a point which is not only relevant to europe's energy policy but also to the perception and implementation of european objectives in the national states in general.
i can only agree with you that the question of promoting renewable energy sources is certainly not the sole responsibility of an energy policy.
agricultural and forestry policy, biomass, agricultural raw material production, and by environmental, economic and fiscal policies.
we will begin in june - during our presidency - to debate a forestry strategy for europe, to assess the potential of forestry for the future, and we must include renewable energy in national economic and fiscal policies, whether it is green electricity, support for heat, support for plant and infrastructure, research and development.
we have also clearly defined in the guidelines: only mixing with products produced in accordance with european social, ecological and agricultural guidelines.
we do not want to create a sustainable energy policy in europe and then import products from overseas.
we have an incredible potential with 10 new member states - and subsequently romania and bulgaria - where a lot of land can be used not for food production but for energy production, and we have chosen the agricultural policy guidelines to make this possible.
we have already discussed this crucial issue of minimising and limiting pollution in the context of the dynamics of transport on several occasions during the austrian presidency.
we have started negotiations on the commission's proposal with the aim of achieving a progressive emissions regulation with a longer-term perspective which is both - and this is a crucial point, because we have discussed sustainability a lot today - to meet environmental policy requirements and to give european industry planning certainty for technical development.
the first was in february, where mainly the environmental policy requirements for the state of the art for exhaust gas cleaning for fine particulate matter and in particular nox for diesel cars were discussed, a second will take place on 22 june.
we have an absolute need to discuss the air strategy and the implementation of euro 5 and euro 6 at the next environment council at the end of june.
we want to make further progress in this direction, for the sake of environmental safety and quality of life in europe and also for the health of the people in the affected areas.
so we will make this narrow border crossing between euro 5, euro 6 as a perspective, possibly to achieve environmental objectives, nox and pm10, but also to keep a competitive automotive industry in europe.
we have taken this path and we will be discussing these two issues, the air strategy and euro 5, very intensively in the environment council, with a view to going beyond this, also in the presence of several commissioners.
the central outcome of the orientation debate in the council was that the proposal was unanimously welcomed by the environment ministers in view of the drastic reduction of the particulate limit values for diesel cars, i.e.
this forestry measure is intended to and this is important in particular to improve the competitiveness of forestry this is stated in article 20 and to promote the sustainable management of forested areas.
we must not make the mistake in europe that we sometimes make at national level, for example in energy policy, of only discussing ambitious targets: what share of the energy mix should renewable energy make up?
what we need is an assessment of the potential: what is the sustainable potential in europe to generate renewable energy from biomass, forestry, biogas, wind or water?
what is the potential in terms of sustainability and how do we intend to invest in rural development to bring this potential to the market in a resource-efficient, effective and cost-effective way?
with 47% of the country's area covered by forests, we will in future focus on the sustainable supply of biomass as a raw material, also through rural development funds, with our own programme.
community action to promote sustainable forest management in the european union is part of the multi-component european union forest strategy.
it is the development of rural areas, the protection and monitoring of forests, the conservation of biodiversity and the mitigation of the effects of climate change.
this is firstly the initial afforestation of agricultural land, the initial establishment of agroforestry systems on agricultural land, the initial afforestation of non-agricultural land, payments also under natura 2000, payments for forest environmental measures, the restoration of forestry potential, the introduction of preventive actions and also aid for non-productive investments.
we can - and this is an important guiding principle for the future - also remember one thing in the debate on forestry strategy: the forest serves a biodiversity function for fauna and flora, it serves a recreational function, it fulfils environmental tasks, it helps us to protect the climate, it prepares the ground for sustainable energy supply, but it is also a huge economic factor in europe.
i therefore expect that the finnish presidency and the one that follows will give very much attention to the question of afforestation, environmental measures, fire prevention, etc., especially in the countries and regions concerned which you have mentioned.
and then a clear offer: if the environment is to be used, then compensation should be paid in the forest.
so far, no adverse effects on the aquatic ecosystem of the sea bass have been detected by this foaming.
i am very interested in this and i will make sure that we succeed in both cases together, because as minister for the environment of the republic of austria i am equally interested in being taken into account in your proceedings, for example, in relation to the paks nuclear power station.
we are neighbours, we have common interests in the region, that is a give and take, and that will be, as i hope, the case with water as well as with nuclear energy.
it was one of my first discussions, the first council of environment ministers, which i was allowed to attend as a young minister in march 2003. that was the first time we discussed the bathing water directive, which sets the standards.
as was explicitly stated in the council's annual contribution to the spring european council of march 2005, the effective application of european community environmental law and the need to further improve european policy-making, with a balanced view of economic, social and environmental aspects, are among the council's priorities.
the euro-mediterranean ministerial conferences regularly address the issue of environmental sustainability in the mediterranean.
and, in implementing the outcomes of the two euro-mediterranean ministerial conferences on environmental issues, held in helsinki in november 1997 and athens in july 2002, efforts are focused on defining a strategic framework and promoting a common approach and joint initiatives to improve institutional and technical capacity in the region.
the seventh conference of foreign ministers, held in luxembourg on 30 and 31 may 2005, reaffirmed the commission's initiative to eliminate mediterranean associations by 2020. this initiative aims to address all sources of pollution, including industrial emissions, municipal waste and, in particular, municipal waste water.
it also called for a roadmap to clean up the mediterranean by 2020, taking into account comparable sustainable development experiences already gained in the baltic, mediterranean and black sea regions.
in this context, particular interest is urgently needed in environmental protection and water supply, but also in waste water treatment, as well as in the eu's experience with environmental impact assessment and the work of the european environment agency.
the deepening of bilateral cooperation should include, in our view, the implementation of multilateral environmental agreements on the protection of the mediterranean and on climate change.
as you said, the mediterranean is the most important destination for tourism, so the policy on the marine environment is very important.
i believe that this will be a much more effective way of protecting the marine environment.
environmental, because this type of fishing does not cause any damage or causes the least possible damage in relation to other species.
i understand that you want to create a climate of optimism, but i ask you: the european council has been a great success, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to support the work of the commission in this area.
let us therefore take as an example this pleasant break which has shown us that europe and the world as a whole can enjoy diversity in a climate of equality, harmony and mutual respect.
the commission is committed to promulgating the guidelines by the end of 2007. in view of the two-year transitional period, the guidelines will be in place before the repeal of the liner conference block exemption takes effect, thus giving industry ample time to adjust to a new competitive environment in the knowledge that what it seeks to do is lawful.
we have exchanged views with the european commission in the context of the white paper and in a resolution, which was adopted by a large majority, the european parliament has argued that our merchant fleet, in a competitive and rapidly changing international environment, needs a clear framework within which it must operate and which must guarantee fair and healthy competition.
the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment, which will be presented to the council in the near future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
despite the council's initial opposition, environmental partners, non-governmental organisations and other actors representing civil society will also be involved in the monitoring committees.
we also managed to have a special article on sustainable development and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the structural funds are not used to harm the environment.
it is particularly important that the european parliament has succeeded, through a long and difficult negotiation, in introducing substantial qualitative changes to the texts of the regulations, changes that will contribute to improving the quality of life of citizens, to creating actions and projects that do not create exclusion, changes that promote sustainable development and the democratisation of the procedures for implementing the funds through the extended partnership and the participation of representatives of civil society.
in particular: - the available resources are falling significantly from 0.41% for the period 2000-06 to 0.37% for the period 2007-13. the resources are eur 28 billion less than the commission's original proposal, which parliament considered to be the minimum funding needed to support cohesion and the environment.
i also think that the report by the committee on industry, research and energy has made some important points.
mr lambert has just said very correctly that: "we must transform migration from desperation into migration by choice of people who freely decide to go to live and work in the european union, but who are not forced to flee because their countries are poor, because there is no drinking water, or because the environment is destroyed.
for example, targeted interventions in the countries of origin of migration flows to promote investment and the restructuring of the agricultural system or the environmental fabric, which is very often devastated and degraded.
our external action at community and national level offers us many opportunities to create conditions for sustainable development in countries and societies affected by extreme poverty, to create jobs, democratic institutions and structures, and to protect human and social rights.
no one can doubt the positive contribution of fair trade programme initiatives to the sustainable economic and social development of developing countries.
the development of fair trade regimes and the promotion of products that meet high social and environmental standards is of further particular importance due to the absence of such issues from the current world trade organisation negotiations.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i believe that the failure of the negotiations in geneva last week has created a climate of catastrophism - a climate that has been cultivated.
but i believe that this climate should in no way put pressure on the commission and commissioner mandelson to continue the concessions, especially in the agricultural sector.
this is a major blow to the environment, tourism and agriculture.
europe is the state, it is the organization of solidarity and it must show it; - secondly, there must be immediate protection against the risk of washing away the land; - thirdly, there must be prevention for the future: and here, we have to look at the issue in depth, how do we plant species that don't burn as easily as pine; - fourth, we have to look at how do we stop ecological degradation, because the greenhouse effect is the cause of increasing fires.
it is our duty to protect both the environment and man.
as a matter of principle, it cannot be disputed, at least by the socialist group, that taxation should gradually be combined with environmental protection and improvement, in accordance with the kyoto protocol.
consumers cannot be burdened by the high traffic charge due to the high pollution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals on the relationship between pollution and taxation.
this is a satisfactory result for all of us, because it is an expression of the european union's will to give visibility to the agency for safety at sea and the fight against pollution, to give it the appropriate means and adequate funding.
as regards operational assistance, the agency has already chosen the way in which it will act to prevent and combat pollution.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether we can plan an extension of the powers, or give a wider interpretation, so that the agency can act in cases where pollution is not caused by ships, such as the pollution from the great oil spill in lebanon which is now plaguing the mediterranean and is approaching the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, at the very moment when we are discussing the framework of the responsibilities and the financing of the european maritime safety agency for the prevention and response to incidents of marine pollution, there is a huge ecological disaster in the south-eastern mediterranean caused by the criminal bombing of the israeli installations at zige in lebanon.
the murderous attacks by israel have caused the deaths of thousands of lebanese and palestinians and have had incalculable effects on the wider environment of the region.
one third of the seven-year funding budget of the european maritime safety agency to combat marine pollution.
i do not mention this as a sign that the clean-up operation will be covered by the european agency reserve, but to give us a better idea of the real cost of such a pollution.
the much-vaunted 'polluter pays' principle of the european union is proving to be false and hypocritical, since the european union again makes no reference to the culprits, israel, who have caused this enormous ecological disaster.
the european maritime safety agency cannot and should not replace the international maritime organisation and its member states which have the primary responsibility for the protection of the safety of human life at sea and the environment.
the european agency needs to focus its action on improving safety of navigation and combating pollution, with particular attention to prevention.
it is necessary to include all forms of marine pollution, in particular pollution by hydrocarbons and dangerous liquids, in the activities covered by the financial contribution.
mr president, commissioner, the ecological disasters caused by maritime accidents unfortunately continue to pose a great danger to europe's maritime and coastal regions, and the capacity of the member states to deal with these disasters is often inadequate.
it is very important that the tasks are expanded in order to equip emsa with all the effective new means to deal with all forms of accidental and deliberate pollution.
the provision of operational assistance to member states should be strengthened by the provision of specially equipped vessels to deal with pollution, as well as the creation of a central satellite imagery relay service for surveillance and early detection.
two regions of the country, chalkidiki and mani, have suffered untold ecological and economic devastation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forestry sector is not left to the detriment of the environment, and that the forestry sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the fires have triggered a chain reaction with huge consequences for the ecosystem and the economy, tourism, agriculture, livestock and beekeeping.
and that's because we've changed, we're changing, we're making the planet's climate worse, and so it's intensifying the greenhouse effect.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission's proposal to abolish the registration fees for passenger cars and replace them with increased annual road tolls is at the expense of workers and the popular classes and serves only the interests and the increase of profits of the automotive industry, the single internal market and the increase of anti-people indirect taxes imposed by the eu and governments under the pretext of emissions and the kyoto protocol.
the new tax-saving measure against workers also imposes the principle of a tax on emissions, since the annual taxation of passengers will be based on their emissions.
the measure, while clearly ineffective in tackling air pollution, will directly lead to an increase in tax revenues and sales of new cars to replace old ones, further burdening the family balance.
we are opposed to the report because the proposed measures, instead of protecting consumers, increase the profits of the car manufacturers, instead of protecting the environment, burden it with an increased number of vehicles, instead of protecting the people's income, they base their withdrawal on the altar of the stability pact.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission's statement on greenhouse gas emission trading schemes.
climate change has major economic and social impacts.
consequently, pollution must be made costly.
i propose, with a view to the evaluation of the second national plans for 2008-12, that the european commission take the necessary measures to prevent the excessive generosity of emissions granted by member states to certain undertakings.
the agenda includes the report by john bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on improving the mental health of the population - towards a mental health strategy for the european union (2006/2058 (ini)) (a6-0249/2006).
we must therefore protect both the people affected and their environment, because we will also make the environment more capable and more confident of the role it is called upon to play in dealing with the problems of its own people.
in the context of the adjustment process, administrative, police and judicial modernisation is at the forefront of the fight against organised crime and corruption; the maximum participation of civil society in the political process and the establishment of mechanisms for the sustainable and transparent functioning of the market economy.
i am very glad that the european parliament has invested a lot of time and energy in monitoring and pursuing political dialogue with albania.
and this concerns us particularly as europeans, since the economic, political or ecological consequences of the crisis directly affect the member states of the union, while at the same time hampering the common plan for peace, security, prosperity in the region and the creation of a free trade area by 2010. the european union has therefore vital reasons to pursue peace and development in the region.
china is the world's largest consumer of electricity and the third largest importer of oil, which determines its energy policy and economic development at international and regional level.
the promotion and implementation of eco-labelling schemes will increase environmental awareness among consumers.
and in this way, environmental responsibility is encouraged by making producers more aware of the environmental impact of fisheries and aquaculture.
i would also like to stress that public health and the sustainability of fisheries should not be limited to the content of a labelling system.
products bearing such a label indicate that the catch was produced in accordance with a specific set of environmental rules and that the production method has no negative impact on the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the form of a directive.
this effort will be a win-win: consumers, because safe and healthy products will be supplied; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid to the following types of undertakings: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, since the exploitation of its resources will be carried out in an ecological way.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
for centuries, with simple materials and means, the inhabitants of the countryside and islands of europe, obeying the basic rules of human scale and the gentleness of the natural environment, have managed to create a built heritage of great aesthetic value.
this humble heritage, whose protection and promotion is not only a cultural duty but also a development imperative, has been seriously damaged in many european countries by the responsibility of governments, as a result of social and technological developments, excessive economic exploitation and over-construction, which have led to the deterioration of the landscape and the destruction - especially on the small scale of islands - of the marvellous balance between the natural and built environment and, on the other hand, to the destruction of highly productive agricultural land.
in addition, using community funds, member states should encourage alternative sustainable tourism, which can be a factor in protecting and promoting the architectural heritage of housing estates that have retained most of their character.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe's built environment, which is made up of sub-assemblies of different architectural styles and periods, is being seriously altered by the over-construction of buildings, and by the existence of incompatible structures which do not correspond to the particular architectural characteristics of the historical area in which they are located.
all actors active in the cultural field must ensure that europe's cultural heritage is preserved and exploited, while respecting the traditional rural environment and ensuring a balance between the population and the environment, and raising awareness of its importance among citizens.
the moral author of these crimes is the policies of commercialisation, privatisation and exploitation of forest land for other activities, thus sacrificing important lungs of life on the altar of profit and burdening the environment considerably.
in greece, it is even being proposed to change the relevant article of the constitution which protects forests, that is, what is left of them, especially around the big cities and in the developing tourist and residential areas so that there are no obstacles to the implementation of this anti-people anti-environmental policy.
the lack of resources and staffing contributes to criminal policies, and the political responsibilities of the eu and governments and the inhumane and anti-environmental consequences of their policies are immediately apparent.
respecting european values and our social sensitivities, but also focusing on knowledge, we can pursue a development path, bearing in mind that the globalisation of economic activity, social progress and environmental protection are based on the continuous development of new skills and the use of new technologies.
i could mention, in relation to the original text, the upgrading of the guidelines of the principle of sustainable development in the interventions of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, equal treatment of men and women and non-discrimination on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability - with emphasis on accessibility for people with disabilities at all stages of the preparation and implementation of programmes and projects - emphasis on the urban dimension, on the interconnection of cities and rural areas, and on broad partnership.
india has now signed a nuclear energy agreement with the united states, which creates a new framework and a new balance of power in the asian region.
it is india that is abusing the anti-dumping rules, it is india that is abusing social and environmental dumping.
the areas forming the basis of bilateral eu-india relations, as covered by the three eu-india subcommittee meetings, range from economic policy, dialogue and cooperation, including on industrial policy, science and technology, finance and monetary affairs, the environment, clean development and climate change, energy cooperation, information and communication technologies, civil aviation, maritime transport, space technology, agriculture and marine policy, customs, employment and social policy, business cooperation and development cooperation, to trade and investment and the bringing together of peoples and cultures.
the visibility and economic benefits of an fta with the european union would support india's programme of reforms and provide a more stable investment climate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
in conclusion, i would like to agree with the rapporteur that eco-labelling could greatly facilitate the diversification of fishery products and be an essential trade incentive for sustainable fisheries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the marine environment.
to take measures to combat marine pollution and illegal fishing to protect fish stocks.
the development of a knowledge society was another essential element in ensuring sustainable growth and global competitiveness.
the president shared with others deep concern at the progress of climate change, and called on partners to work together to achieve efficient, clean and sustainable energy use and the reduction of emissions.
it was significant that the summit was able to adopt an ambitious declaration on climate change, containing a common undertaking to fully implement commitments under the united nations framework convention and its kyoto protocol.
the emergence, ladies and gentlemen, of asia's geo-strategic and geo-economic role and the dynamic emergence of strong emerging economies are shaping the new international framework within which the european union is called upon to address the serious political, economic, energy and environmental challenges posed by globalisation.
the need for the european union to make effective use of the new asian environment is therefore becoming more urgent today, as the european union is preparing to take on the challenge of the new asian environment.
the institutionalisation of annual summits contributes to dialogue and multilateral cooperation in areas critical to the future of humanity, such as peace, security, energy, the environment, economic and social development.
in addition, the strong asian countries - beyond the framework of general declarations - have already formulated and are consistently pursuing their national strategy agenda in the fields of energy, trade, and the resolution of international and regional problems.
the whole ecosystem of the mountains and forests of europe and the world is being disrupted.
we want to give europeans, and indeed all the inhabitants of the world, the assurance that they will not be persecuted for the sake of freedom of expression - whether that freedom is represented by speech, or by the external environment - and much less for their religious beliefs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report and her strong position on the environment committee's demands on life+.
i also support the environment committee's request that 55% of life+ be allocated to nature and biodiversity, which is a key issue in the effort to achieve the european union's objective in this area.
if the percentage remains at 40%, this will in fact mean a proportional reduction in the relevant funding for biodiversity compared to the previous financial perspective and this is unacceptable.
we want a strong european policy, we all in the european parliament want more europe for the protection of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
with regard to the amendments, i am aware of 31 amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and a further amendment introduced since last week.
while the budget question will ultimately be solved by the budgetary authority, the commission will do all it can to facilitate an agreement that, with your support, will provide funds to dg environment throughout 2007. turning now to the 31 amendments on life+, i will divide them into four distinct blocks.
parliament also calls for at least 55% of life+ funds to be allocated to the nature and biodiversity component.
the commission cannot accept this amendment, since it would reduce the flexibility needed by several member states to tackle other pressing environmental concerns.
the 40% in the common position is a minimum and nothing prevents member states spending double that figure on nature and biodiversity if they so wish and can justify it.
lastly, with regard to a series of amendments seeking clarification, greater transparency, etc., on questions such as the application of the aarhus convention, cross-border projects, specific reference to the impact of climate change on biodiversity, the role of the commission in supporting integration, etc., my view is that these amendments could be acceptable to the commission in principle, subject to some drafting changes.
we need a funding instrument for the environment in order to spend our eur 2 billion budget.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the rapporteur, mr papadimoulis, for the excellent report they have produced.
as rapporteur, and together with the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, we tabled amendments which were adopted almost unanimously by the committee on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a very good one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the development of strong and adequate disaster prevention and response mechanisms is essential for the protection, assistance and relief of those affected by natural disasters and for the response to environmental disasters.
similarly, civil protection mechanisms cannot function to conceal liability arising from the wilful causation of environmental disasters.
the creation of mechanisms to deal with disasters caused by deliberate action or negligence (as proposed) gives even greater scope for unrewarding business action, with devastating effects on the environment and public health.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
that's why he's a waste.
the project aims to create public-private partnerships and promote in particular awareness of quality and environmental managements systems and social standards – iso 14000 and sa 8000 certified companies have increased in number – as well as strengthening the consumer association, through which pressure for change and control will be built up.
i believe that the best way of improving, strengthening, deepening, making more satisfactory the energy demand and supply relationship between europe and russia is, first of all, to press russia to adopt other, more transparent policies of free transit that are governed by global trade rules.
i see no reason why energy goods should not be subject to global trade rules like any other good.
but i also believe that the best way to strengthen the energy relationship between russia and the eu is by anchoring that energy relationship in a wider set of trade negotiations and agreements, the object of which would be to bring about integration of the russian and european economies governed by fair and transparent market rules and agreed norms and standards.
i do not think it is a threat, but i acknowledge the risk of a diversion of energy and negotiating capacity.
mr president, congratulating the rapporteur, mrs muscardini, and thanking the commissioner for his well-founded intervention, i should like to say at the outset that maintaining and strengthening the european union's competitiveness in the new international environment requires, first, increased european access to third country markets and, secondly, effective protection against unfair trading practices by our partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the informal council summit is a sign of the intensification of international competition with a single european union strategy, but also of the contradictions between the member states over control of energy sources and transport modes and new woes for the peoples.
the european investment bank is called upon to increase its blackmail of third countries in the name of energy security, in order to force them to submit to the burdensome conditions imposed by monopolies for the control of energy sources.
the european council also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation.
and in the end, they managed to get russia to turn its back on them, on both their energy and humanitarian demands.
a first approach to the proposed regulation leaves a number of questions open on critical issues such as: how to secure sustainable funding for the eit?
we note with concern that the basel convention is violated at least 10 times a year, leading to toxic waste in african countries.
the union must move forward with the criminalisation of illegal practices in the trafficking of toxic waste.
at the same time, it should draw the attention of the european ports agency to the strict application of the regulations governing the transport of toxic waste by its members.
the need for public information, internal consultation and information between the services concerned, the operation of the register of qualitative and quantitative data and the quantities of waste traded and generated should be emphasized.
behind the pharismatic declarations of respect for georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, the condemnation of the independence movements of abkhazia and south ossetia, are the eu's attempts to encircle and exert pressure on russia, with its eyes on the russian market, especially the energy market, in the context of inter-imperialist rivalries and contradictions.
i am pleased to open this joint discussion on the thematic strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment and on the proposed directive on marine strategy.
i would like to thank both rapporteurs, mrs lienemann for the proposed directive on the marine strategy and mr kuskissi for the thematic strategy, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their efforts.
marine ecosystems play a key role in climate and weather.
however, the state of the marine environment in the european union is deteriorating rapidly.
most measures developed at eu level are not designed to protect the marine environment as such and therefore have limited impact.
a healthy marine environment is essential to life as such and to the quality of our lives.
it is also a prerequisite for the full exploitation of the economic potential of the oceans and seas, and a dynamic marine economy can only thrive if there is a healthy marine environment.
for these reasons, it is clear that the protection of the marine environment can no longer and must not be a by-product of other policies.
an integrated strategy is needed at eu level to take account of all pressures and impacts on the marine environment.
it consists of a draft directive on a marine strategy and a communication explaining the current situation, taking into account the eu's environmental footprint in the marine environment in a broader sense and explaining why the eu needs to act.
the commission's green paper, adopted in june this year, aims to achieve a europe with a dynamic maritime economy that is compatible with the marine environment.
the marine strategy is a pillar of future maritime policy in the environmental field.
it will focus on activities needed to protect marine ecosystems, on which sustainable wealth, productivity and employment, and more broadly, human wealth derived from the oceans and seas, depend.
the proposed marine strategy directive aims to achieve 'good environmental status' of the eu marine environment by 2021, in other words to restore the ecological health of our seas over the next 15 years.
the joint implementation of the eu water framework directive and the marine strategy directive will thus link the protection of the marine and inland water environment.
based on geographical and environmental criteria, the directive establishes european marine regions and identifies sub-regions, if any, as the management units for implementation.
marine strategies should primarily include an assessment of the state of the marine environment, its threats and impacts, environmental objectives and indicators, and monitoring programmes.
in the second phase, member states will be responsible for developing and implementing measures to achieve good environmental status.
a high level of protection of the marine environment is a prerequisite for exploiting the full economic potential of the oceans and seas.
the marine environment is indeed a fundamental resource of our maritime economy.
the marine environment is in danger.
the main objective of the proposed directive, mr president, is to achieve a good state of the marine environment.
this strategy is more urgent today than ever, because the marine ecosystem has been seriously degraded.
we must reach out to them, convince them that they must first of all protect the environment.
that we should agree on some common indicators to measure the state of the environment at the moment, so that - and this is very important - when we talk about good state of the marine environment, we mean the same thing.
mr president, the protection systems for the marine environment are covered in part by various sectoral policies of the european union, but the result is a conglomeration of policies, legislative acts, programmes and action plans, without an overall integrated policy for the protection of the marine environment.
the two combined legislative frameworks on the thematic strategy for the protection and conservation of the environment and the marine strategy directive aim to achieve good environmental status of the marine environment of the european union by 2021. however, if we take into account, first, the general nature of the two regulations and, secondly, the pillars on which they are based, it is certain that in 2021 not only will there be no good state of the marine environment, but there will be no improvement in the current bad state, which is directly acknowledged in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal for a directive, which states that overall there has been a substantial deterioration of the marine environment in recent decades.
the absence or substandard of waste storage and treatment infrastructure.
it is now imperative for the european union to have a comprehensive policy for the protection of the marine environment, because the fragmentary legislation in force so far has not been able to prevent the reduction of biodiversity and habitat loss.
it is therefore our duty to future generations to achieve a very high level of protection of the marine environment, so that our strategy for sustainable development is in line with the lisbon objectives, since we must not forget that in many countries of the union and for a significant part of the population, the sea is a major pole of economic development.
the main objective should be to define clearly the term good environmental status of marine ecosystems in order to achieve a coherent and effective marine policy at european union level.
i believe that the establishment of marine protected areas as a tool for protecting ecosystems and tackling the loss of biodiversity is also a major contribution to this objective.
we expect the commission to consider measures for sustainable, effective, simple and transparent policies that contribute to the objectives of convergence and rural development.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the deadlock that the new cap has created for the rural economy, for workers in agricultural processing plants and for small and medium-sized farmers since its first year of application and which will intensify once it is completed, is being mitigated by the commission's proposal for the development of energy and biomass farms.
but the incentives and conditions for their payment contained in the proposal favour large farms in the northern eu countries, which have a comparative advantage because of the soil-climatic conditions and large ownership, rather than countries with a dry climate and small ownership, because they are horizontal and deliberately ignore these characteristics.
in our country, for example, there are no areas which have been included in the setaside scheme to be used for energy crops, so that there is no benefit from this measure, and the area aid of eur 4,5 per hectare is insignificant in this respect and does not constitute a substantial incentive.
for these reasons we are opposed to the proposed regulation, although we consider the commission's proposal for the new member states as regards energy crops to be a positive one in principle, because it is moving towards equal treatment without being equal treatment.
the proposal for a regulation provides for certain safety procedures because there is a clear risk of disturbing the natural biodiversity of an area following the introduction and release of non-native species.
we insult russia, with whom we have a relationship, an energy dependence, and we pet turkey, which defiantly says: "i am turkey and i will impose on europe whatever i want".
do you think, commissioner, that a strong institution in which the regulatory authorities are merged - as, for example, happened in the netherlands, where the competition commission absorbed the energy regulatory authority and the telecommunications commission - would be a good model for other member states?
i believe that the regulators as they have been selected and decided by the commission - in particular the energy regulators - play an important role in maintaining their independence from the competition committee.
at the sixth asem summit in helsinki on 10 and 11 september, heads of state recognised the need to strengthen the social dimension of globalisation and stressed that productive work, decent work, the rights of all workers, social security and labour market dialogue are crucial for sustainable socioeconomic development.
the risk of transfer of businesses to countries with weaker social and environmental legislation is reinforced by the adoption of the directive.
the increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters, which have resulted in the loss of lives, but also in economic and environmental damage, is the main reason for this.
i have already said that it is paradoxical to have a common policy for farmers, for the environment, for regional development, and not to have a policy for natural disasters, which affect both farmers and regional development and the environment.
if an environment of security, certainty and trust is created for economic growth and cooperation, then as labour and economic cooperation develop, so will social ties.
it is also a vital initiative, mr president, to build a climate of confidence, security and reconciliation between the two communities.
we may have industry, but we don't have energy.
our four areas of cooperation offer good opportunities for further cooperation not only in the energy sector but also in many other areas.
in this new agreement, there will also be the whole issue of energy.
the other day we had a very important energy conference in brussels, and there is a whole set of different ideas on transparency, reciprocity and legal certainty for investments.
official charges have been brought to parties involved in privatisations in the energy sector.
we were particularly concerned about the phenomenon of violence against women, both in the family environment and in its consequences for sexual exploitation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
i would like to make a special mention of ensuring accessibility for people with disabilities in the built environment.
it is well known that hundreds of chemicals contribute to occupational diseases and deaths, but what has been promoted, after a bargaining of amendments and on unscientific grounds, is the interests of the businessmen of the chemical industry at the expense of the health of workers and the environment.
the long-term consequences for workers and the environment are left unchecked and member states are prevented from imposing stricter regulations.
the principle of substitution has been seriously undermined to the detriment of public health, the environment and workers in the chemical industry.
it is far behind the commission's original proposal and what we voted on both at first reading and in the committee on the environment.
i would like to congratulate mr sacconi because the regulation essentially provides for the protection of human health and the environment, and it provides for it with a time increase, and i imagine that in the long term all the substances which cause the concern of most of the colleagues we are hearing today will be replaced over time.
over time, we will see real improvements in both public health and the environment.
this regulation is a unique opportunity for all of us to achieve a high level of protection of public health and the environment, both for ourselves and for future generations.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
if there's any waste, we have to cut it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his resolute position in ensuring that conditions are created to prevent marine accidents with terrible consequences for marine pollution.
for my country, greece, as two colleagues have mentioned, environmental protection is a particular objective, since it is a country with coasts, islands, a large tourist economy and aspires to become a transit centre in the eastern mediterranean, which means increased ship traffic and increased pollution and accident risks.
we will try, within the general objectives of the european union, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to combine in the best possible way the protection of the environment, the competitiveness of our european fleet and our economy.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rationalization of energy use and the integration of renewable sources into the union's energy mix are universal demands for the union.
the union must therefore take all the necessary measures to implement the demand for a common european energy policy.
it is important to understand that the union could achieve up to 20% of the reduction in current energy consumption.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis.
for the next programming period 2007 to 2013, environmental policy should be promoted in the european regional development fund.
the environmental protection you are referring to is hypocritical.
the energy supply must be geared to meeting the needs of the people, reducing energy dependence, safeguarding the safety of the inhabitants, protecting the environment and, above all, securing energy as a social good and not as a commodity, and here is our strategic disagreement and difference: such needs are not encouraged in the green book!
the kke, together with the shipowners and workers in general, is consistently fighting against the anti-people policy of the eu and the governments of the member states, the shipowners and the capital, in order to take strict measures to strengthen the safety rules for oil tankers and in general for all categories of ships to protect human life at sea and the environment.