this is a way of helping to ensure aviation safety, which is a cornerstone of our foreign policy, and also of helping to ensure that environmental and competition considerations are respected.
i also reject the idea of taxing aviation for environmental reasons, since there is no binding international regulation on this subject and this sector of competition must be supported by its own revenues, including those from airports.
the best way to protect the environment is to ensure technological security, not to impose new taxes.
it was only in the framework of the compromise that we accepted the reference to the inclusion of aviation in the air pollution trading regime, but there can be no question of direct taxation.
mr president, the role of the århus convention is to promote public control on environmental issues.
in this way it helps to make our societies more environmentally conscious and encourages ngos to be active in environmental policy.
we politicians will be judged by our voters on the state of the environment and on a sustainable future, and not on empty promises.
it says that if an internal review concludes that there is a contradiction with environmental law, then the body concerned should take a decision to eliminate the problem.
if we realise there is an environmental problem and we do not do anything about it, then the whole process is senseless.
the pse group is working in general, and in this particular case, for a clean environment and for public participation in the decision-making process.
that is why we support this report in the form that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety adopted it.
– mr president, some five years ago the cyanide pollution of the river tisza caused by a gold mine in baia mare, romania, showed us hungarians how dangerous mining waste can be.
still the commission and the european parliament understood the problem and initiated a directive on the management of such waste.
mr sjöstedt went to the site of the pollution, studied the facts, heard all the witnesses and experts, and then drew up an excellent report.
on water pollution issues, we tried to ensure compliance with other community obligations, most of which were imposed under the water framework directive.
the financial guarantees must be sufficient to cover the cost of the rehabilitation of the land affected by the waste facility.
we socialist meps wanted the discharge of waste to any receiving body of water to be authorised before the operation.
this regulation was created following the disaster at the large mine in romania in 2000 in order to prevent similar environmental and natural pollution from occurring again.
the directive before us therefore puts the emphasis on prevention, which is always the key to securing our future and avoiding environmental disasters caused by human negligence.
but it does not only tell us about future mines and their waste, but also about old, abandoned mines and those that are still operating, often in a deplorable state of repair.
however, this can only be done in a sustainable way, taking the best possible account of the interests of the environment and nature.
we have had extensive debates both in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and later in the conciliation committee.
the present compromise is acceptable to us but means a lot of work for my country: some beaches will be closed and many others should be improved, but that is the cost of a clean and healthy environment.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as for the 2007-2013 budget, please do everything as the chancellor of the neighboring state to have the interinstitutional agreement because the new member states have no time to waste.
concrete actions to foster smes friendly environment are the cornerstone for achieving union's objectives of growth and employment.
addressing this report is also the opportunity to welcome the jaspers and jeremy initiatives that will certainly play an important role in developing more effective smes friendly environment within the union.
however, i would like to emphasise that the growth in road transport is contrary to the principle of sustainable development.
wasteful energy use, severe air pollution, and destruction of roads and the environment are the direct consequences of the increase in truck traffic.
the majority of average consumers, at least in the new member states, choose the cheaper product because their income does not allow them to pay more for basic foodstuffs out of environmental awareness or animal welfare concerns.
i'm thinking very specifically about creating knowledge, preserving it, turning it into sustainable economic advantage.
europe is the world's largest energy importer.
and imported energy is becoming more expensive, and it comes from a region that is both politically and economically unstable.
all of this forces us to reduce, if possible eliminate, our dependence on energy imports, our vulnerability.
to do this, we need to increase the use of renewable energy sources in europe, while rationalising and making our energy use more efficient.
the eu's efforts in this area over the past decade have been successful: the eu achieved its 2010 target for wind energy at the end of last year, biomass power plants are expanding rapidly and biofuels are gaining ground.
today, 40% of energy consumption is accounted for by the domestic heating/cooling sector.
the average renewable energy use in european homes is currently 10% but this is due to the outstanding performance of only a few countries - austria, germany, greece, etc.
others - including my country - use almost no renewable energy, do not support such investment, have no government programs, and rather raise administrative barriers.
regulation at eu level is needed to reduce the fossil energy consumption of households, greenhouse gas emissions and our energy dependence in a cost-effective and effective way.
effective rural development programmes not only improve competitiveness and provide a solid foundation for sustainable development, but also strengthen social cohesion and the healthy development of all sections of society.
mr president, six years ago the pollution of the river tisza with cyanide, which was caused by gold mining in baia mare, romania, showed us the dangers of gold mining at the heart of europe.
hungary was not a member of the european union at that time, but the whole european union showed solidarity with us, the victims of the river pollution.
the european union has recently adopted a directive on mining waste that will stop all mining activity that is dangerous to nature.
everybody should understand the health and environmental risks of mercury.
as pollution does not stop at borders, we must also urge our neighbouring countries to implement our strict mercury policy.
the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is a primary tool to encourage those countries to take the right action in the field of the environment.
therefore, sustainable competitiveness must also be created at this level.
this is also of great importance for the sustainability of social welfare systems in the light of today's demographic challenges.
although there are considerable differences in the local circumstances of member states, the challenges and targets are similar - to tackle the increasing challenge of europe’s ageing society, bearing in mind the lisbon targets of making europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, with greater social cohesion and sustainable economic growth capacity, and more and better jobs.
mr. president, i have to ask you... on behalf of the new member states, including hungary, i would like to thank mr parish for his remark that the new member states should not receive financial support from eu funds for the cultivation of crops for energy purposes.
the report therefore stresses the importance of the european commission's call to remove barriers to energy crops in the new member states and to allow for the granting of subsidies.
the european parliament's report clearly supports the interests of the new member states, and i would ask mrs fischer boel and the commission to take these proposals into account, since it is extremely important to provide jobs in the new member states with energy aid.
the promotion of crop production for non-food purposes is a unique opportunity that can potentially bring considerable social, economic and environmental benefits for european farmers and rural economies.
moreover, it is clear that supporting crop production for non-food purposes is in line with the targets set by the lisbon and gothenburg strategies for the development and use of renewable energies, as crop production for energy purposes brings a large potential in order to meet union’s energy needs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
but it will also provide more resources to reform social systems and to preserve our environment for our grandchildren.
to be in line with the employment and growth objectives of the lisbon strategy, structural changes are required: support for r&d, encouragement of private and public investments, development of innovative actions for sectors such as biotechnologies, sustainable energies and icts.
besides the structural changes and the development of innovative sectors, environmental protection and the quality of products must remain, within the framework of global economy, a genuine european specificity.
unfortunately, we are increasingly faced with the fact that europe's countries, especially central europe, are being hit by floods due to climate change and brutal deforestation.
the challenge is to establish an appropriate reform of the state aid policy in order to better contribute to innovation, sustainable growth, socio-economic cohesion and environmental protection while avoiding excessive competition distortions.
this environment has led to agreement on all the issues at first reading and, hopefully, to the support of all the amendments.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the energy community treaty is a success story.
the interplay between politics and energy today is more likely to fuel conflicts than to resolve them.
the energy community treaty is a refreshing exception, a true european success story, of which the union can be proud.
three years of consistent and sustained efforts will bring us closer to our goal of working together to modernise and rebuild the energy supply of the war-torn balkan region, which is so crucial for european security.
i am also convinced that the stabilisation of the energy situation in the balkans will help diversify the eu's energy supply.
i am confident that all this can be achieved and that the creation of the energy community will be a tangible argument in favour of a single european energy policy, as advocated in the green paper.
if so, the european union can produce new energy success stories and continue to be an attractive example of a political community for neighbouring countries and regions that want to catch up.
i particularly welcome the rapporteur’s recommendations on links between the cohesion policy and the lisbon strategy, as they will bring sustainable economic growth and lasting, quality employment.
i also welcome the links between the partnership principle and the territorial dimension, as well as the emphasis on more environmentally sustainable transport, national resources management, equal opportunities, lifelong learning and urban development.
as far as floods are concerned, neighbouring states should act together, as floods, like pollution, do not stop at borders.
a new regulation is needed and it should help prevent environmental pollution as a consequence of natural disasters.
we should not forget that environmental pollution is a very dangerous consequence of natural disasters in general.
major natural disasters within the union can cause significant human, economic and environmental damages as well as it can affect more than just one european country.
as a matter of fact, if our aim is to bring further productivity, innovation capacity and sustainable growth for the union, the emphasis should be put on the role of smes.
in this respect, while reforming the programmes and the instruments for the next programming period, we should bring forward without distorting the markets the horizontal objectives of the union such as gender equality, environmental protection, protection of the disabled, the sharing of best practice, the promotion of lasting quality employment and economic growth.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the eu's own energy policy was born at the brussels summit in march this year.
the adoption of a common strategy is a milestone, as only by working together can we overcome our pressing energy challenges.
the new strategy must not focus on ensuring greater and even more wasteful use, but on more economical, more efficient and more energy-intensive recovery.
it is the basis of our competitiveness, it is justified by ecological considerations, and it is in the interest of consumers.
i am therefore particularly pleased that my proposal for the matter before us includes support for the modernisation of the energy efficiency of panel houses, which is a major problem throughout europe and in our country.
i also consider that the incentive for energy efficiency service companies is a very important step, which is a market-conform and innovative solution.
i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and thank her for supporting almost all of my proposals as the rapporteur responsible for the committee on the environment.
the flood has washed away the settlement for the third time, washing hundreds of kilos of waste between their houses, as this gypsy settlement, like thousands of others, is located next to the city's garbage dump.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european commission has in recent weeks ordered on-the-spot inspections of several major energy companies.
they aim to establish how competition in the european gas and energy market is realised.
first, ensuring undistorted competition in the energy market is crucial for the future competitiveness of the european manufacturing industry and the well-being of european households.
secondly, in parallel with the commission's action, a debate has been launched here in the house on the possible creation of a common european energy policy, and the findings of the studies seem indispensable to this work.
the experience of the past year and a half has shown that a number of proposals have been made, for example in the fields of environmental protection, social security or the internal market, which could help to improve certain eu directives.
pollution does not respect borders and the same goes for groundwater pollutants.
in the age of global climate change, drinking water is one of the most important endangered natural resources.
it is therefore important to protect this treasure from pollution, which can only be done through cooperation between countries, since groundwater sources do not conform to national boundaries.
the natural processes that shape the composition of groundwater can also be measured over decades, so any pollution will affect not only us but also future generations.
just as the purity of natural waters is a rare treasure of a country, so natural pollution is a given that we are forced to accept, especially if there is nothing we can do about it.
unfortunately, because of climate change and human intervention, we have to protect ourselves from flooding more times a year than we do now, or more than 1,000 miles this april.
we need a change of attitude, and that's what sustainable development is all about.
union agri-environmental aid should support the establishment of water management systems based on the retention of excess water from floods.
decentralised renewable energy production based on biomass from biomass land should also be supported under greenhouse gas emissions trading.
floods are often followed by environmental pollution caused by industrial, agricultural and other facilities in the area, and sometimes the pollution is more dangerous than the flood itself.
that is why flood risk management maps and plans need to take potential pollution sources into account.
i welcome the fact that the programme has given prominence to sectors such as frontier research, clean energy, nanotechnologies and social sciences.
there is a great deal of fear that the russians will acquire too large a share in the final phase of the eu energy sector, which is currently less than 10%, and joint ventures are very successful in germany.
not only must russia be restrained from exerting pressure by restricting energy supplies, moldovan and georgian wine, and polish meat imports, but the eu must also be helped as a mediator to make russia's neighbours take account of geopolitical realities, of russia's geographical proximity.
mr president, my main problem with the commission’s environmental proposals is that they do not correspond with the objectives of the sixth environmental action plan.
if we want to have less air pollution and more public transport, we have to act.
as the rapporteur on urban environment, i propose legal measures and targets to increase the rate of environmentally friendly transport.
listening to mrs grossetête, i also hope that the ppe-de group will support my amendments and my report about having binding measures and targets concerning the urban environment and traffic.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in the context of the motion for a resolution before us, allow me to say a few words on the link between sustainable development and energy economy.
the document rightly emphasises that energy production and consumption is one of the key factors in achieving sustainability.
we are right to re-formulate our objectives on this basis, as we have done so many times before, in the context of increasing energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions or promoting renewable energy sources.
however, it is clear that there is a significant backlog in the further development of the sustainable development strategy adopted in gothenburg in 2001. it is worth considering why this is so.
i am convinced that the lack of an effective market economy environment can be a major obstacle to achieving our objectives.
in hungary, where the rate of renewable energy deployment is unfortunately one of the lowest in the union, the long-term operation of polluting power plants is protected by monopolistic relationships and contracts that run counter to market logic.
these contracts, together with the unpredictable and also contrary to market logic public electricity purchase regulations, make it practically impossible to exploit wind energy, for example.
and as long as this practice continues, there is very little chance that we will achieve our sustainable development goals.
we therefore need to create an efficient, competitive and cost-effective energy market, without which an environmentally sustainable society is only a pipe dream.
i hope that this is the reason why i support this motion for a resolution and hope that we can return to this question when the european parliament is discussing the development of a common european energy policy.
mr. president, i have to ask you... mr. minister, i would like to thank you personally and the austrian government for taking action and for making a promise that as of july 1st, no pollution from the jennersdorf leather factory will flow into the river rabe.
i would like to conclude by saying that i cannot accept the inclusion of social or environmental considerations in the consolidation of the financial services or the financial sector.
unfortunately, this has led to a corresponding increase in the number and scale of environmental problems caused by aviation.
aircraft currently account for only 3% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions, but with a rapid growth rate of almost 5% per year, it is time to act.
at the same time, we need to find a solution that effectively incentivises the industry to reduce air pollution.
i personally believe in market instruments and can therefore only support the introduction of a properly designed emissions trading system in this area as well.
this is not only important because of air pollution from aircraft, but also because of noise pollution.
increased mobility should not have adverse effects on our health or the state of our environment.
environmental protection is perhaps the area where civil society is most keenly interested in the performance of our institutions and wants to be involved in decision-making as well as access to information.
in this respect, i can only support the report of mrs. del castillo vera and its emphasis on improving the european research and innovation environment.
i share your view that there may be problems with the development of the internal energy market.
my question is whether the instruments of competition policy will be sufficient to deal with these problems in the future, or does the commission consider that there might be a need to set up a european energy regulatory body which would, of course, deal primarily with cross-border transactions?
it ensures the accurate tracking of radioactive waste and, now, fuel for recycling, but does not apply unjustified restrictions and prohibitions.
it is also of paramount importance for the future of europe's energy supply, because it is good to be aware that the success of this complex operation is also the key to people's confidence in nuclear energy.
new decisions would need to be taken alongside updating old ones, taking account of economic, environmental and, above all, social considerations.
i think it's a bit much to take into account the 50% mandatory ratio for air pollution, because if someone is doing very well in kyoto, let them decide for themselves what proportion they take into account.
the european social model is facing major challenges, mainly related to changes in the economic environment and the transformation of society.
the french riots have shown that even a small fortune cannot protect you in a hot environment.
global security and energy issues are barely mentioned, and therefore we need to bring balance into this report.
the commission is currently doing a tremendous job in dealing with eu-china relations in more than 20 different policy fields, including foreign policy, global security issues and energy issues.
our group’s suggestion, which was rejected, was to get the commission to give us regular updates on the different sectoral dialogues, which now cover a wide range of areas from space technology to enterprise regulation, from environmental issues to education and the information society.
mr president, everyone has the right to a clean and healthy environment and nobody should endanger the health and lives of other people.
this principle should be the cornerstone not just of our environmental policy, but of our would-be constitution as well.
some decades ago, industry was the main cause of air pollution and the diseases connected with it.
eighty per cent of our citizens live in cities and for them the main cause of air pollution is traffic.
during the pse group hearing on air pollution, we had clear evidence of this.
the strict pollution reduction targets, as proposed for particulate matter, can only be achieved in that way.
that should be the main target, but we also have to reduce dangerous emissions from cars, with cleaner engines, fuels and filters, as indicated in the euro 5 and euro 6 proposals.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as a hungarian mep, i am particularly sensitive to the current debate on air pollution.
both brussels, where i work, and budapest, where i live, are the darkest places on europe's air pollution map.
clearly, air pollution is strongly influenced by a number of external factors, such as the weather.
the thematic strategy on the urban environment should be a brave and progressive initiative, not just a lukewarm recommendation of wishful thinking.
the sixth environmental action plan has set encouraging goals, but this time the commission failed to propose legally binding measures and deadlines.
the commission does not attempt to balance european policy between urban and rural areas and does not have any vision for a cleaner urban environment.
firstly, i propose that a sustainable urban management plan and a sustainable urban transport plan should be required by community law for every agglomeration with more than 100 000 inhabitants, as proposed by the commission in 2004. representatives of european cities have expressed their satisfaction with my proposal.
those kinds of binding measures make life easier for environment-conscious city councils, as they have legal bases for action on the environment.
speed limits in city centres, such as in graz, austria, reduce accidents, save lives and reduce air pollution and noise emissions.
low emission zones are also useful in combating air pollution.
if we really want to do something about climate change, we should act in our cities as well.
that should also apply to sustainable development.
due to climate change, heatwaves turn many towns and cities into hell during the hot summer days and nights.
complex social, cultural, educational and environmental programmes are needed to rehabilitate those suburbs.
efficient urban planning, pragmatic development of urban environment models and tools with integrated approach, exchange of best practices helps cities ensuring sustainable development, reconciliation of economic, social and environmental challenges as well as contributing to the healthy well-being of eu citizens.
these actions, based on comprehensive policies with clear, concrete, measurable targets and frameworks, must be sustainable, future-oriented and supported by adequate eu funds.
for urban environment - being a wide, comprehensive and constantly changing issue – flexible approach is needed so emphasis must be put on research which could be included in the 7-th framework programme on research.
sustainable urban public transport; the progressive introduction of environmentally-friendly modes of transport and technologies, the promotion of public transport and non-motorised transport against the use of private cars are just some examples of the main priorities.
they are the ones who are most exposed to the environmental damage from industrial activity, from transportation.
this in itself justifies making special efforts to improve the urban environment.
i understand his reasons, since he, like me, lives in budapest, where no measures have been taken in recent years to improve the quality of the environment.
however, it would be a mistake to expect the union to solve the environmental problems of european cities by means of detailed standards outlining specific programmes.
health is not just about improving health care, about better access to health care, but about creating more and better jobs, about the sustainable development goals and about the principle of equal opportunities that we have already mentioned.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take into account the effects of the aid on the environment and the environment in the context of the common fisheries policy.
it is clear to us that if we want to create an effective institution and not just a showcase - which would be a waste of money - and i agree with those who would not support a superfluous institution - then it is clear that the mandate of this agency must include information, data collection and manifestations in the field of third pillar issues, since, as we see every day, the areas of police and judicial cooperation are the ones with the greatest problems.
since 2000, the life iii call has spent more than €950 million on a variety of environmental programmes, successfully implementing numerous local, regional and crossborder projects.
firstly, it is already clear that the new programme will not be decided on time, and as a result we will not be able to start the environmental programmes as planned in january next year, which i think is a big problem.
in my view, this is contrary to the logic and practice of the past, which has seen environmental protection as a community policy for the union.
on the other hand, it is also contrary to the transnational nature of environmental protection, which requires a supranational approach.
the health of the people, the protection of the environment, the desire for a healthy life are more important than narrow industrial interests.
it is clear that there is a mutual but asymmetric dependence on energy supplies between the european union and russia.
we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our energy dependence on russia, but for most member states - including hungary - there is no viable alternative in the medium term.
as far as renewable energy is concerned, mr barosso, the european commission has no real concept of renewable energy.
i would like to highlight environmental aspects - this should be emphasised here - such as the establishment and maintenance of price zones.
i believe we must be careful and consistent in our approach to environmental and seaworthiness requirements.
the unprecedented blackout since the 1970s has highlighted once again the increasing difficulty of adapting energy regulation, which is essentially a national competence, to the requirements of energy security in the 21st century.
the russian-georgian gas dispute that has erupted in recent weeks has made it clear that russia is now openly willing to put its energy position at the service of its political goals.
this explains, but makes it even more alarming for the eu, the fact that russia, which plays a key role in our gas supply, does not want to sign the european energy charter.
the only answer, with our vulnerability now twice as great, is a common eu energy policy based on solidarity and speaking the same language at international level.
the green paper on energy, currently under discussion in parliament, can provide a good starting point for this.
secondly, it is important to include the new member states as soon as possible and therefore there can be no interpretation, especially in terms of inflation, sustainability and the reference rate, which lags behind the eu economic average and therefore practically delays the entry of new member states that are still catching up with wages and prices for a long time.
mr. president, i have to ask you... one popular theory is that mankind was lifted out of its environment by speech, or the ability to communicate.
the court's investigation found that the projects were realised, but that a large proportion of them were operating outside their original objectives and that the majority of the projects audited simply could not be made sustainable.
however, the successful mechanism of optional flat-rate funding opens up further opportunities for our universities and research institutions to participate in a broad and sustainable way in the longer term.
the first and most important question is whether new legislation is needed at all, or whether existing legislation is sufficient to address our environmental, health and animal health concerns and provide access to the desired amount of information.
this also shows that the cost-efficiency of small businesses has been aligned with health and environmental objectives.
for me, it was really important in choosing the headquarters that it be placed where it would have a proper environment.
this proposal creates a delicate and difficult compromise between our transport needs, our technical and economic possibilities and our growing environmental problems.
it's the only way to solve the growing air pollution problems in our cities on our own.
the programme for the post-soviet states, the immediate eastern neighbours of the union, is therefore of paramount importance for our own energy supply, including our own security.
i would also like to congratulate the other two rapporteurs and, in particular, to highlight the fact that the eluned morgan report makes it clear that energy should not be about the industries that work in the energy sector in the first place, but about the people they reach, the users.
a central element of europe's energy strategy is to ensure a decent standard of living for europe's citizens and to provide access to affordable, secure energy, which is essential for competitive operations.
the one-year anniversary of the russian-ukrainian gas dispute and the minor disruption of gas supplies in russia, which has brought europe to its energy vulnerability and the fragility of its energy security, is fast approaching.
in the green paper parliamentary debate published by the commission in march, i summarised the factors that are key to preventing a similar eventuality in three points:1. a common european energy policy is needed to give our suppliers, including russia, which is openly using its energy position as a political tool, a unified voice at international level.
in order to establish a common european energy policy on a sound basis, we must also create the new community legal framework necessary for this.
the eu's neighbourhood policy should also be guided by the south east european extension of the energy community treaty.
the future energy mix should include a greater emphasis on alternative energy sources and a reassessment of the role of nuclear energy.