in fact, the european environment agency, in a report submitted two months ago, has noted and emphasized that the environmental priorities for the mediterranean region include drought, the prevention and management of drought and water scarcity, which particularly affected countries such as portugal and spain this year.
i should also point out that the environment agency has underlined in its report the importance of other emerging threats to the mediterranean region, in particular to ecosystems, arising from changes in temperature and rainfall in the region, which have various consequences.
renewable energy is one of our priorities at the moment.
we have a green paper on renewable energy, which we are trying to promote by various means.
to this effect, we have the second phase of the european climate change programme, which promotes renewable energy sources, and we are proposing a series of measures in support of such energy sources.
at the same time, the commission is currently discussing a strategy for biofuels, which provide a means not only of securing energy resources within the european union, but also of answering the problems that will be created for farmers by the new agricultural policy, as well as limiting greenhouse gases and dealing with other environmental problems.
mr president, the århus convention, signed by all 25 member states, gives the public rights in the three areas of accessing environmental information, participating in environmental decision-making and accessing justice in environmental matters.
it is essential that individuals who are directly affected by breaches of environmental law have a means of redress, whether through an appeal body, the ombudsman or, if necessary, through the courts.
while there are many excellent ngos and pressure groups, which bring to our attention legitimate concerns on environmental matters and act as watchdogs holding the institutions to account on our behalf, i would urge caution in allowing any self-legitimising group to put an added burden on the institutions and clog up an already overburdened justice system.
while i am opposed to amendments 2, 7 and 12, my biggest problem is with amendment 26, which proposes that all ngos, regardless of the legitimacy of their interests or the transparency of their constitutions, should be granted the right of unfettered instigation of court proceedings against community institutions for their administrative acts or omissions, such as in enforcing the implementation of eu environmental law.
citizens have a legitimate right to information and environmental justice, including from the ec.
in particular, i believe the definition of 'environmental information' set out in the proposed regulation should include information about the state of progress of proceedings against member states for infringing ec law.
however, i would like to address a question to both the council and the commission, in relation to the decision which was made in sydney on 12 january 2006 by the ap6 countries, namely, china, india, south korea, japan, the united states and australia, when they decided that they represent 45% of the world’s population and account for almost half of the greenhouse gas emissions.
the israeli government must come to realise that missiles, demolitions, apartheid walls and assassinations will not guarantee or bring it sustainable peace.
most of all, israel’s current government must realise that a sustainable peace is not possible without a sustainable palestinian state.
the provision of and access to such services is the essence of what sustainable rural development is all about.
in ireland, partly because of our own inaction and through our own fault, we currently have a nitrates directive based on rainfall, weather and climate, which is totally unworkable, but that is another story.
the president-in-office said that a host of instruments are available, but despite that, the eu-25 import dependency for energy, which was 48% in 2002, is projected to rise to 71% by 2030. the eu-15 is dependent on middle east countries for 31% of oil imports, on russia for 30% of gas imports and 28% of oil imports, and on algeria for 22% of gas imports.
given the steps taken by russia recently and the vulnerability of some member states to russian petulance, would the president-in-office not agree that the essential element of maintaining security of supply lies in the complete liberalisation of the energy market in the european union, and will he take steps to bring that about?
this house will be abdicating its responsibility by refusing to adopt the amended directive now on offer and leaving our services market, our labour rights, our consumer rights and our environmental rights in this area to the uncertainty of case-by-case decisions of the european court of justice.
climate change is happening very quickly, so that reorientation will be inevitable.
we must use it to help unlock the innovative capacity of our agri-food and forestry sectors and the economic, environmental and social potential of our rural areas and the people who live in them.
thirdly, consistency with other european union policies will be ensured, in particular in the field of cohesion and environment.
let me conclude this introduction, therefore, by expressing my agreement with the issues raised by the rapporteur in her report: the role of modernisation measures, the need for measures to help to encourage young farmers and farming families to stay in rural areas, and the importance of putting the heart back into our villages, sustainable farming and preservation of the rural heritage.
above all, a vibrant, commercial and sustainable agriculture is essential for the development or our rural regions, in which we have a huge common interest.
we should not ignore the reality that a vibrant, commercial and sustainable farm sector is a vital component of rural life.
of course, rural development has a much wider remit: it provides for restructuring of rural regions and it allows for environmental protection and for measures to improve the quality of life for rural people.
rural areas are different from urban areas, but the policy priorities for rural regions have to fit in with the overall objectives, as you have set out, of competitiveness and economic growth, environmental sustainability and quality-of-life issues.
a quality environment is key to the future of rural regions.
we may regret that in the future, as it has implications, not just for food production, but also for the quality of our rural environment and landscape.
non-food uses are also very important, and other reports discussed here tonight spoke of renewable energies and biomass.
there needs to be provision for helping people into employment and this should be reflected in the guidelines under point 3.3. also, although support for renewable energy is highlighted in points 3.1 and 3.3 of the guidelines, it is futile to provide support for renewable energy at a local level if national policy is prohibitive to the development of the sector.
rural development has an increasing role to play in the maintenance of farmers’ livelihoods and farm family incomes and incomes of rural dwellers, so we need to build a sustainable income stream to complement agricultural income.
europe must insist on infrastructure deficits being addressed, especially in areas like transport, energy and modern broadband communication.
the irish government pollutes the irish water supply with hexafluorosilic acid, a waste product of the artificial fertiliser industry which, in addition to mercury, contains other toxins such as lead, arsenic, beryllium, vanadium, cadmium, radionuclides and silicone.
we do so because we fail at national level to integrate the various economic, social, cultural and environmental policies that we pursue.
in recent years the key challenge to maintaining sustainable fisheries has, to a large extent, developed into an overly simplistic and polarising debate on whether or not we should have more or less fishing.
in reality the challenge of rebuilding stocks and maintaining sustainability is also about developing new and better ways of fishing through the utilisation and development of new technology.
the objective of maintaining sustainability must, most centrally, embrace the question of how we fish in the future so that we harvest our marine resources in the most environmentally favourable way.
to achieve that we must first understand the effects of fishing practices on the marine environment and promote fishing activities that are environmentally sustainable.
the proposed environmental programme includes a review of all existing technical conservation measures within the next two years, to reduce ecosystem and environmental damage.
they will do so because it will contribute to sustainable fisheries.
i am confident that the measures outlined above, and others, can contribute significantly to sustainable fishing and ultimately lead to sustainable fisheries.
i accept that this strategy also has to be seen in the wider context of sustainable development requirements - that our current needs have to be met without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
i would like it to be on the record that while i support the overall objective of parliament's resolution on the spring summit 2006, i do not support amendments which state that nuclear energy is a viable alternative to europe's current energy dependency.
ireland in no way supports the use of nuclear energy.
it aims to provide professional staff ready for the job, training, equipment and support for promoting healthier living in a healthier environment.
the european union, through the experience of its member states and experts and by virtue of this proposal, which has been greatly improved by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, is rising to the challenge of assisting member states in public health.
the broader behavioural, social and environmental factors that determine health can be optimally addressed at community level through a holistic, as opposed to fragmented, approach.
mr president, when the lights went out in california, in turin and even in my own home town of wexford – not to mention the recent gazprom incident – there was a sudden concentration of minds on the security of energy supply, which is of critical importance to us both strategically and economically, particularly with energy import dependency and costs growing exponentially.
as the recent green paper on energy policy tells us, unless we can make our domestic energy more competitive in the next couple of decades, 70% of the union’s energy requirements will have to be met by imported products, compared to a figure of only 50% today.
this figure, however, masks the higher energy import dependency of peripheral and geographically isolated energy markets such as the baltics, ireland and other island communities.
in ireland, we have gone from 65% dependency on imported energy in 1990 to over 90% dependency today, and rising.
while the energy mix must continue to remain a member state competence, in a single market, an attack on one is an attack on all in energy terms.
solidarity within the eu will be vital in securing equitably distributed supplies from outside our borders, through the completion of a competitive, integrated, internal energy market.
this cannot happen without additional physical capacity, in the form of trans-european energy networks, to connect us all to a european grid.
through eu-level and member state incentives, we must seriously target the development and mainstreaming of the 21 types of renewables, not least because of our obligations in relation to climate change.
talk, goodwill and interest are not enough; we need serious financial and regulatory catalysts to increase research and roll out the development of pilot projects using cutting-edge renewable technologies.
the decoupling of economic growth and energy consumption and the whole story of demand side management cannot be ignored.
world energy demand and carbon dioxide emissions are expected to rise by 60% by 2030. by increasing energy efficiency measures alone by 2020, we can reduce demand by over 20%.
let us act now and keep energy security at the top of the political agenda in peacetime.
biofuels will contribute to europe’s energy self-sufficiency, at a time of rising oil prices and in light of the recent controversy over gas supplies from russia.
considering that 80% of all british nuclear waste is held in sellafield and that it can process 5000 tonnes of waste per year – about one third of the world’s waste – and considering the serious questions about safety at this plant for many years and the number of accidents that have taken place, i would like to know what guarantees the british government can give concerned parties and the people of ireland that the highest safety standards will be met while this plant is being operated in private hands.
fluorinated gases were introduced in the nineties to replace the ozone-depleting cfcs and hcfcs.
as the debate on climate change developed following the un framework convention on climate change, the harmful impact of these fluorinated gases, owing to their high global warming potential – gwp – came to be recognised as a major contributor – up to 5% and rising – to the greenhouse effect.
not only do these gases have high gwps, the most potent – sulphur hexafluoride or sf6 – has a gwp of almost 24 000 times that of co2, the most common greenhouse gas.
if no measures are taken, the commission estimates that emissions of fluorinated gases will be 50% above the 1995 levels by 2010. others would cite a much higher figure.
with the measures agreed in this package of legislation, they will be reduced by more than 20% from the 1995 levels by 2012. of the six greenhouse gases listed in the annex to the 1997 kyoto protocol, three of them are fluorinated gases.
in all, the current legislation encourages a reduction in emissions of 25 fluorinated gases – hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride – through containment, responsible use, recovery, destruction and disposal.
whereas the original commission draft proposal was in the form of one regulation with a single market legal base, namely article 95, the council reached a common position which took the form of two separate texts: a directive based on article 95 and a regulation based on a dual legal base consisting of articles 175 and 95. the rationale for the split of the commission’s original proposal into two different texts, suggested by the european parliament at its first reading, was to move all the requirements relating to emissions from air conditioning in motor vehicles from the proposed regulation to framework directive 70/156/eec on the type-approval of motor vehicles.
so, having chopped it in two and taken the highly dubious step of dividing the regulation between two legal bases – the main thrust being environment, with some ancillary provisions grounded on the single market legal base – the council handed the baton back to parliament.
my proposal, as rapporteur, to adopt a single environment-linked legal base as the only means of achieving legal certainty, did not obtain the required qualified majority.
article 176 of the treaty explains this mechanism relating to the environment or the article 175 laws.
the centre of gravity of this regulation is indisputably environmental protection, which would warrant an environment base – an approach of minimum harmonisation.
finally, there was the unresolved question as to whether the member states that already have more ambitious legislation in force – notably austria and denmark – would be allowed to keep those measures, or whether the eu would force them to lower their environmental standards in an area of combating climate change at a time when there are already difficulties in meeting kyoto targets to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
after many exhaustive weeks of informatory preparatory work and meetings, the conciliation committee reached agreement on a joint text for the regulation concerning certain fluorinated greenhouse gases – f-gases – on 31 january 2006, which addressed the main points of disagreement between parliament and the council, which are namely: the possibility for the member states to keep or introduce national measures stricter than those foreseen by the regulation; technical provisions regarding f-gas containment; reporting and review of the regulation; definition of placing on the market; cross-border transport or shipment of f-gases for recovery; labelling; notification of measures introducing further bans on f-gases; and the area of training and certification.
important for encouraging an environmental race to the top was the agreement on the general principle that member states can maintain or introduce stricter national measures in accordance with the provisions of the treaty.
in the specific case of the existing national measures in denmark and austria, against which the commission has been considering legal action, a safeguard clause was introduced which would allow the two member states to keep their legislation until 31 december 2012. both countries already have strict legislation on f-gases in place – since the 1970s in the case of denmark – and they view it as a key measure in their policy mix to achieve their kyoto climate change targets.
i believe the legislation now agreed and awaiting final sanction by our colleagues in this parliament tomorrow strikes an equitable balance between environmental protection and single market concerns.
it reaffirms the european community’s commitment to reducing climate change and will provide a considerable stimulus to the development of new environmental technologies, thus contributing to our lisbon agenda knowledge economy goals.
electrical or electronic switch gear, amongst other vital uses, will continue to use f-gases in a contained environment.
the conciliation compromise was welcomed by the three institutions, by myself, by my european parliament colleagues, by minister pröll, on behalf of the european council, and by the environment commissioner, mr dimas.
in the laborious process of negotiating this legislation, it was the clear intention of the legislators – parliament and the council – to provide for the widest possible interpretation of the powers for environmental measures to be taken on the basis of a single market legal base.
tonight i want to make it clear that the principal aims of this regulation – to cut our emissions of fluorinated gases – should be respected and adhered to in the fullest sense.
i welcome the pioneering decision to introduce a phased ban on fluorinated gases with a global warming potential of more than 150 times the potency of carbon dioxide in motor vehicles.
in practice, most vehicle producers are likely to introduce carbon-dioxide-based systems.
is there a difference between dg enterprise and dg environment on this issue, and has dg enterprise won the battle?
the overall new policies that we are trying to work towards include a common energy system, where we recognise, of course, the rights of the member states to deal with their own energy issues, but also see where those individual member states can cooperate with each other to guarantee minimum resources as regards safety and security, with regard to interconnection and to guaranteeing the proper use of funding for research and development as regards new renewable energies and in particular on biofuels.
in our desire to help the environment, whilst at the same time reducing our dependence on imported fuels, we could use new energy crops to run all of our public transport in the european union, if we so wished.
we could use solar energy to heat our houses, if we so wished.
however, that requires us to make an investment to guarantee that the technology is available for all and, through our taxation, to give preference to energies that are less damaging to the environment, as we did with the introduction of unleaded petrol many years ago.
(applause) i would like to put on record a letter written yesterday by professor trakatellis, chairman of the conciliation committee, and by me as rapporteur to president barroso: ‘we are writing to express our disappointment about the content of the declaration on the final text of the fluorinated gas regulation made unilaterally by the commission in the course of the european parliament plenary session of 4 april 2006.‘ as you are aware, the regulation is an important step towards the achievement of the objectives set out in the kyoto protocol and in line with the european climate change action programme.
‘on 31 january both the european parliament and the council demonstrated a clear will to find a political solution to the problem of national measures, already adopted by some member states, to reduce f-gas emissions.
strong fluorinated greenhouse gases legislation is long overdue to rectify the past and protect our climate into the future.
despite what people may say about advances in technology or the new safety measures that have been put in place, the risks associated with nuclear energy are so vast and so great.
the waste product has an active life of thousands of years that we can neither control nor manage.
likewise, i believe it is impossible for mankind to control what nuclear energy will do.
since then, every summer, 14 000 children have been brought from chernobyl to ireland for a three-week break in a clean environment, to get fresh air, to live with host families, to know what it is like to live in a proper family environment, and to get medical and dental treatment.
in line with what mrs in 't veld said, we propose measures to support risk-taking and experimentation, as well as the business environment for innovation.
secondly, i support using state aid to encourage innovative research into renewable energy technologies, in particular supplying equipment to process biomass, biofuels and so on.
in particular, they should now consider bringing in flexibility with regard to the compensation payments to sugar beet growers and sugar producers who have lost their livelihoods, and targeting those resources instead towards the creation of alternative energy crops and alternative fuels.
that can help to eliminate or to reduce our dependence on oil, it can also contribute towards a cleaner environment and, most importantly of all, it can offer many farmers around the european union a valuable crop to grow, which would guarantee them economic security for the future.
the fluoride put in irish water is a toxic waste.
fluoride, as we use it in ireland, is a toxic waste taken from the scrubbers of an artificial fertilizer factory, which also contain poison like mercury and cadmium.
most of our higher quality proteins, for example brazilian soya, are shipped vast distances from countries where the sustainability debate is now raging.
the results will be greater congestion and environmental degradation, more accidents and a loss of competitiveness of european industry, which must rely, for the management of its supply chains, on cost-efficient transportation.
that is why we argue in favour of a specific instrument for the needs of the developing countries, namely poverty alleviation with true economic cooperation and sustainable development, and not just a default instrument for all countries not covered by any other instrument.
we are talking about priorities for our cooperation with latin america, the middle east, central asia, the far east and south africa; our priorities in the fields of human and social development; sustainable management of natural resources such as water and energy; the environment and the role of non-state actors.
what is crucially important is that the environmental issue should be taken into consideration.
many of the environmental problems we are now encountering are caused by climate change and they are self-inflicted.
droughts and floods in particular are the direct result of environmental neglect and mismanagement: they are manmade.
the eu is supposed to be leading the way in terms of environmental change, but at the same time the reality is that we are still destroying the world’s environment and we are doing it on a daily basis: greenhouse gas emission levels, for example, are being ignored by many eu countries, including, sadly, my own country.
these issues involved the environment, fisheries, free trade and so on.
mr president, we read about this being green week, and the focus of this year’s green week is biodiversity loss.
last year it was climate change, and both climate change and biodiversity loss are the two greatest environmental challenges facing us.
i rise to protest at the lack of time given to debate the issue of biodiversity loss during this part-session, as this is green week.
as parliamentarians we should have acknowledged green week and the biodiversity loss focus by having a debate on that issue.
a recent study conducted in brazil by the irish farmers’ association revealed totally inadequate foot and mouth disease controls, nonexistent traceability, widespread environmental degradation and social exploitation.
i welcome the measures established in the directive, which lays down mandatory criteria for assessing the chemical status of groundwater and for identifying trends in the pollution of groundwater bodies, while also introducing measures for protecting groundwater from indirect pollution.
the pollution of ground and surface water is a concern in my constituency of munster, particularly in view of environmental disasters like the deserted tailings pond in silvermines, county tipperary, the red mud and salt lake ponds which get bigger every day at aughinish, an alumina extraction factory in limerick, and kilworth, north cork, where liquid toxic waste is dumped in trenches and left to seep into the earth.
our record in transposing environmental directives is not good.
tackling environmental problems requires education and information campaigns aimed at all sectors: farmers, industrialists and homeowners.
the agriculture problem debated this evening and referred to so frequently arose because, in the past, farmers followed the advice of experts who encouraged the increased use of inputs with scant awareness of the environmental impact that advice would have.
we now need a sustained campaign to promote greater environmental awareness, including a campaign to highlight the importance of keeping groundwater unpolluted and the possible means of achieving this.
a 2004 european environment agency report estimated that removing nitrates from drinking water is up to ten times more expensive than taking preventive measures at farm level.
we now know that the principal danger is not posed by migrating wild birds which we cannot control, but by domestic or, should i say, industrial fowl, and our handling of them and of their waste products.
unfortunately, too much of the debate is now determined by what media commentators are saying, rather than what the citizens of the european union are saying, because when you speak to people and ask them what their needs are, and what kind of europe that they want to see, they all reply that they want an internal market, greater job security, greater energy security, better personal security and safety, for their children to have a safer and cleaner environment in which to live and for europe to play a responsible role on the world stage.
with regard to energy, the president of the commission has come forward with a good policy for a common energy policy in europe, but we should also look at the alternatives, including the opportunity to use fuel crops to produce energy.
i want to ask him whether he believes that by-products of the european forestry industry have a potentially important role to play in the future in providing renewable energy sources.
it is about the specific social, economic and environmental problems of the entire small inshore fishing sector in all member states of the european union.
it is about promoting sustainable fishing.
the exclusion of inshore fishing from current community legislation is creating an environment in which mere survival is questionable.
it is easy to exaggerate the contribution from aviation to the present problem of climate change, and emissions from all transport sectors are of concern to the air quality issue and the climate change debate, which is the number one item on every environment agenda.
in 2003, total emissions from flights into and out of the eu 25 member states contributed 3.4% of co2 emissions, which was equivalent to 0.5% of worldwide emissions in this area.
air transport is treated differently under the un framework convention on climate change in terms of how its greenhouse gas emissions are accounted for.
while we should acknowledge the advances made by the european aviation industry’s voluntary initiative, the emissions containment policy, with eu air traffic movements set to double by 2020 over the 2003 level, the real question is whether, on the basis of the polluter pays principle, this voluntary initiative will be adequate to counteract rising emissions from air transport.
interestingly, a recent house of lords report on aviation’s contribution to climate change stated that it was insignificant and likely to remain so for 30 years.
the industry itself claims that fuel efficiency, direct routing and new technology have already achieved a 70% reduction in aircraft emissions over the last 30 years and that air traffic management, improved holding patterns over airports, and replacement of older planes with state-of-the-art technology in fleet renewal could reduce climate-change impact even further as the number of flights increases each year.
an emissions trading scheme and auctioning rights are worth investigating, but, i ask the commissioner, would a stand-alone or closed ets for aviation not fall at the first hurdle, since all the trading entities would be net buyers and there would be no market?
any economic instruments must have clear environmental objectives, rather than fiscal ones, and must be part of an overall package that addresses technological, operational and infrastructural improvements.
that system has decided in its wisdom that the public – the ordinary citizens – whose lives will be immediately and permanently affected by certain environmental decisions cannot be trusted to participate in and influence such important decisions.
well, plan a, which is aarhus, is surely a framework for ensuring that we can have dialogue, debate and democracy in environmental matters.
that continues to place irish citizens at a disadvantage, as aarhus is the world’s most far-reaching treaty on environmental rights and guarantees public rights to access to information and public participation in environmental decision making.
the aarhus convention demands that we the people contribute information and have access to it, that the people are part of every decision taken about the environment and that we have affordable and ready access to justice when it is necessary to protect the environment and the families in it.
by not ratifying aarhus, the irish government thinks it can continue its practice of riding roughshod over its people, whilst kowtowing to any and every wealthy investor, regardless of the damage it will do to people’s lives, health and environment.
please put pressure on the irish government to finally ratify aarhus, even at this late date, and see the people as an ally rather than an enemy in the effort to protect the environment.
in particular i want to mention partnership, which is crucial because it involves civil society, environmental partners and ngos working in close cooperation with all the partners.
i welcome the commission communication of september 2005, which begins to address the most effective ways of tackling the international increase of greenhouse emissions' increase of 73% from 1990 to 2003. the extension of the eu emissions trading scheme (ets) to the aviation sector may be the best way forward to limiting these emissions and to ensuring that aviation, like all other sectors, contributes to reducing harmful greenhouse gases.
the most important issue moving forward is to examine the effectiveness of the technical design elements for the policy to deliver its full potential for environmental and economic efficiency, while also giving special attention to the situation of ireland and other isolated territories, which are so particularly dependent on air transport services, both capital and regional areas.
– mr president, i should like to say to the commissioner that when i look at the report, which clearly identifies radioactive waste as deadly, i wonder why we still see nuclear power as an option, even, as i have seen in some new lobbying efforts, passing off nuclear energy as 'green'.
this directive focuses only on member states which are active participants in the production of nuclear energy and on those that accept the waste.
ireland neither produces nuclear waste nor reprocesses it.
sellafield is expanding and preparing to take more and more radioactive waste for reprocessing.
any waste coming from continental europe will most likely be shipped through the irish sea, putting us at additional risk.
that should be respected, both in terms of accepting waste and in terms of the risk of waste being transported through our waters.
it is not just about energy, but also about neighbourhood policy, cooperation and geopolitical stability, because there are so many issues in the former states of the soviet union that can create uncertainty and instability within the european union.
that is why, president-in-office, the ideas being proposed on improving justice and home affairs, promoting alternative energy – although i might disagree with you on other aspects of climate change and their solutions – and new ways of creating biofuels, bio-energy and bioethanol are the way forward.
firstly, i wish to express my support for the efforts of the community to strengthen the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste within the eu.
without a doubt, should it be our priority to ensure that our people are protected against the dangerous affects of nuclear waste.
however, i decided to abstain from the vote because the proposed council directive does not take into account the dangerous effects of shipments and reprocessing of radioactive waste on nuclear-free member states like ireland.
the proposed directive focuses only on member states who are active participants in the production of nuclear energy.
as a nuclear-free country, ireland is affected by the waste coming from continental europe to be reprocessed at britain’s sellafield plant.
the waste is shipped through the irish sea, thus making it the most radioactive body of water in the world.
ireland’s unique position is not included in the proposal for a directive on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste.
however, the thrust of this proposal would improve the functioning of the single market and, crucially, would greatly assist in our goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, without compromising the ability of any country to levy its own taxes.
the commission’s proposal is a sensible one, particularly from an environmental perspective, since taxes levied on motorists would be linked to carbon dioxide emissions from the vehicle.
indeed, i agree with the suggestion in the report that other pollutant emissions should be part of the equation, although it might be difficult to include this measure initially.
furthermore, i think it is an excellent idea that member states be encouraged to apply fiscal incentives for passenger cars, in order to encourage the placing on the market of cars and vehicles that meet energy-saving and energy efficiency requirements.
when governments set targets for reducing co2 emissions, they have a responsibility to introduce mechanisms and structures that will facilitate this.
to collect car taxes for a reason like environmental protection makes sense.
the move to use road tax to effectively promote energy-efficient cars by charging significantly more tax for cars with bigger engines that use more fuel will mean that drivers will have to pay more for bigger and more powerful cars.
i am advocating a dual system in which the road tax increases with engine size and, within each engine size category, by energy efficiency.
the family can then reduce the tax they have to pay by choosing a more energy-efficient car which satisfies the family’s transport needs.
we must ensure that measures are both environment- and family-friendly.
having said that, i am all for balancing the taxation structure of motoring in order to decrease emissions - carbon emissions and particles and nox and all the rest, but how that is done in each member state is up to each member state to decide and this is what we must be very careful about.
we should be talking about sectoral targets for co2 emissions and here transport is one of the biggest sinners.
we have raised standards of food production; we have environmental and animal welfare issues.
we need to look after food production just as we are concerned about energy now.
i can see the benefits of introducing tax incentives to motorists to purchase vehicles with reduced co2 emissions and improved fuel efficiency.
i support both objectives of this proposal for a directive: to improve the functioning of the internal market while also taking the opportunity to achieve dramatic reduction in co2 emissions.
in voting for the riis-jorgensen report today i also fully support the much more imaginative environmental demands made in this report.
whereas the european commission has called for graduated taxes designed to penalise carbon dioxide emissions, the european parliament calls for the focus to cover all pollutants and fuel efficiency.
we need imaginative steps like this if we are to stand any chance of reducing the threat of global warming.
but i will move on as time is too precious to waste.
the ppe-de group fully supports the emissions trading scheme and our objectives under kyoto and agrees with the need to keep downward pressure on every one of the 25 member states to meet their targets in relation to greenhouse gases, as agreed under kyoto.
the idea was that at the end of each year the amount of carbon dioxide actually emitted had to match the amount of emission permits a company surrendered to its government.
that was to keep pressure on companies to decrease their emissions.
in the first year, 2005, the actual carbon dioxide emissions of 21 countries were 44 million tonnes short of the amount of co2 emissions permits allocated by the 21 governments in question.
that resulted in absolutely no downward pressure to reduce emissions and in a very volatile carbon credit market that fluctuated from eur 31 per tonne down to eur 8 per tonne and back up to eur 16 per tonne.
i agree that we need a properly functioning carbon credit market.
why can we not establish the sustainability of a wild bird or a species before trade begins?
at the same time, we continue to adopt a cavalier approach towards the biodiversity of less developed countries through this trade, even though there is a ban for the moment.
i hope to present a commission white paper on mental health during the first quarter of next year presenting a strategy and proposing a framework for sustainable cooperation between member states, policy fields and the relevant stakeholders.
as a member of the committee on environment, public heath and food safety i support the strategy on air quality that has been set out by the commission.
that strategy sets out a series of health and environmental objectives and emissions reduction targets for the main pollutants.
it calls on the commission to bring forward a range of sector-based initiatives, including the following: reducing emissions from shipping; reducing emissions of ammonia from agricultural use; the extension of integrated pollution prevention and control measures for smaller units; more stringent emissions standards for vehicles, and the implementation of a national emissions ceiling directive.
we all recognise the significant benefits that accrue from reduced air pollution and we support cost-effective integrated approaches to achieving improvements in air quality.
undoubtedly greater investment in renewable energies and in the biofuel sector will also help to create a cleaner environment.
my report on the future of the biofuels industry was recently strongly approved by the environment committee.
key points that i made in that report included the following: biofuels emit between 40% and 80% fewer greenhouse gases compared to fossil fuels; biofuels offer new sources of income for farmers via sustainable and multifunctional agriculture of the kind the common agricultural policy purports to promote.
i believe that we can all recognise the potential of renewable energy as an important means to boost employment and create added value in rural areas.
the decoupling of income support from production introduced by the 2003 common agricultural policy reform will help to facilitate the supply of energy crops.
the advent of biofuels is good news for the agricultural sector in europe and in ireland and it is good news for the medium- to long-term protection of our environment.
we know of the environmental benefits, so let us now go and collectively meet that challenge.
– mr president, as draftsman of this report on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, i believe that the policy initiatives in the european commission’s green paper on energy should be integrated into sustainable urban transport plans, particularly with respect to the promotion of biofuels.
sufficient support needs to be given to the development of public transport using sustainable energy sources.
in ireland alone, transport is the third largest contributor to co2 emissions.
biofuels should represent 5.75% of our energy supply by 2010. in real terms, for example, again in my own country, ireland, 70 000 fossil fuel-burning cars will be taken off the roads.
in conclusion, i strongly believe that it is only through a policy of integration in the areas of energy efficiency and environmental protection that realistic targets can be set and achieved for urban areas.
the eu has competence over matters such as telecommunications, transport and energy, but it does not have competence under the eu treaties to legislate in a broad capacity on matters governing the operation of social services, health and education within the different member states.
the whole point of national allocation plans is to ensure that the eu emissions trading schemes deliver the best possible benefits for the climate.
in the first year, 2005, the actual carbon dioxide emissions of 21 countries were 44 million tonnes short of the amount of co2 emissions permits allocated in those 21 countries.
that resulted in absolutely no downward pressure to reduce emissions and in a very volatile carbon credit market.
will you insist that the information and data sources used to set the targets in the second round of naps will be publicly available to allow independent verification and to ensure maximum benefit for the climate and fair competition across the single market?
i have to say that the rapporteur has other reservations about the commission’s approach, with which i agree, but time restraints do not permit me to elaborate on them, except to make a brief reference to the issue of msy – maximum sustainable yields.
however, there are questions on non-therapeutic human enhancement, privacy, equity, patenting, military applications, safety and health and the environment, which we need to answer first.
i welcome this commission communication, which recognises the tough economic climate that the eu fishing industry has to contend with.
only when real engagement and dialogue takes place with russia can we guarantee a relationship of equality between the eu and russia, despite our dependence on russia for energy, despite russia’s dependence on us for markets, and despite the interaction that there is in geopolitical terms between eastern europe and russia.
finally, madam president – if i may be allowed the same latitude as the other group chairmen were allowed – when we speak about energy and common energy policy and energy needs, one of the biggest opportunities that we are denying ourselves is the renewable energy that we can create and grow on our land.
when farmers are suffering because of bad deals made by peter mandelson at the wto talks, or when agriculture is under threat, then we need to invest in renewable energy.
this would ensure a much better and fairer spread of funds across the eu and across the many different types of environment within the eu.
i have only one hesitation as an irish mep: i believe that the second half of the second pillar of life – implementation of existing environmental policy – is critical.
my member state’s environmental protection agency seems to be very reluctant to force the same compliance on industry as it does on the public.
in my willingness to support management of life + at member-state level, i would still like to see a reasonable level of scrutiny to ensure that the projects selected prioritise efforts to improve compliance by industry with eu environmental law.
there is a need for more extensive research on the causes of breast cancer, in particular on the effects of hazardous chemicals and the environmental pollution, nutrition, lifestyle and genetic factors.
life has proved to be an invaluable eu environmental policy since 1992. now we have an opportunity for life + to become even more valuable, in particular to the smaller and newer member states, which could receive a more equal spread of budget over the period 2007-2013 of €2 billion.
environmental projects in ireland which could benefit under the seven- year programme include waste prevention, waste reduction and recycling initiatives, development of innovative technologies with positive environmental benefits, local and regional environmental awareness campaigns and the development of special conservation areas.
we have achieved several important changes to the draft proposal, which will bring greater protection for human health and the environment, especially in the area where the maximum threshold for the amount of pfos that can be placed on the market as a substance or preparation has been substantially reduced from the commission’s original proposal.
we are all members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and we will be led by our colleague, mr blokland, as our vice-chairman.
i am very interested in looking into the creation of a carbon fund for africa, as the commissioner has suggested, and where that will take us.
together we can make progress, bring in more of the developing countries and persuade more of our friends in the united states in particular to join us in the very important task of reducing carbon emissions.
kyoto was and is a blueprint for sane and sensible environmental policies, by way of the reduction of damaging greenhouse gas emissions.
could it be that the tornadoes and the hurricanes and the natural disasters in the united states caused by global warming are a result of the reckless dependence on and usage of fossil fuels?
as a former british chief economist with the world bank, dr nicholas stern, put it very succinctly: good environmental practice does not simply make environmental sense, it also makes good economic sense.
it is worth noting that traditional barometer-makers do not introduce new quantities of mercury into the marketplace but recycle existing mercury and, in this way, help to control and limit the substance – not to mention the fact that antique barometers are usually highly valued items and so even more unlikely to end up in our waste streams.
president barroso said here today in parliament that climate change and energy are some of the main challenges facing the european union over the next ten years.
one of the elements relating to energy efficiency is that if you turn off your television properly instead of leaving it on standby, you can save 25% of the electricity that is normally used for a television.
maybe, when we speak about design and energy-efficient design, those kinds of design features should be taken out of televisions and radios and computers, so that there is no standby.
secondly, concerning the stern report on economic environmental matters, i know you cannot speak on behalf of finland but i also know it has one of the best records on alternative energy use and recovery of energy.
the stern report is quite explicit on the economic savings that can be made with regard to energy efficiency.
irish companies and service providers will now, i hope, take advantage of the simplified environment for providing services across the european union.
the occupants are being starved; their health and education infrastructure is being destroyed; their economy is being laid waste; and they are being massacred.
we passed an amendment to aarhus, which already guarantees public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters.
i call on member states to review their national legislation to promote parity and genuine democracy in politics, review their constitution, legislation and practice, enshrine gender equality as a fundamental principle in their constitutions and take measures aiming at the reconciliation of social, family and professional life, in line with the conclusions of the barcelona european council and the lisbon strategy, thereby creating an enabling environment for women’s full participation in politics.
this is also the mindset which makes our environmental protection agency a rubber stamp of approval for even the dirtiest business, no matter how damaging it is to the environment; a mindset that opens ireland to toxic industries like incineration, which irish people do not want.
we have had our period of reflection and we now need a period of consolidation, where the eu is seen to deliver for it citizens on the lisbon agenda, on protection of workers, on support for european business, on environmental sustainability and on the ability of the eu to compete as a player on the global stage.
– mr president, i joined the committee on the environment, public health and food safety just after the last election almost two and a half years ago and saw at first hand the divisions and differences of opinion in relation to reach.
under the current patchwork of legislation, without sufficient information on the majority of existing chemicals, we are unsure of the quantity of chemicals used and the effect on our health and our environment.
this agreement is groundbreaking in terms of regulation which will clearly benefit consumers and our environment through tighter safety controls.
the institutions have worked hard to ensure that the burden for industry, and particularly smes, is not too costly, will protect confidential business information, reduce red tape and will not threaten jobs, whilst still delivering a win-win situation for citizens, workers and our ecosystem.
after three and a half years, 700 pages of draft proposals and thousands of amendments, it was never going to be easy, with such a complex piece of legislation, to find the right balance between health and environmental objectives while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry.
we do not all have everything we would like; but as long as there are divergent views on how we can achieve a clean, healthy environment in europe, on how we can control these things, we will have the democratic process to help us to find a solution.
this is a basic feature of the single market and essential in an electronic environment.
that is my approach in the report, which the committee on environment, public health and food safety strongly supported.
that is why the committee on the environment took out all mention of health programmes from the document.
because we want to make injury surveillance more comprehensive we include mention of risk-taking behaviour, drugs and alcohol, gender considerations, social and environmental condition.
only some groundwater is renewable and it can take water a very long time to percolate through the layers of the earth’s crust to renew the underground source which we can so quickly deplete.
some sources of groundwater are not renewable.
lastly, pollution works in two ways.
as we search for more sources of water, it is important that groundwater be protected from pollution, but it is also important to remember that protection from pollution works two ways.
despite the concessions made to the council, i still believe we have a strong defence of the environment and water supply here.
firstly, with regard to the issue of russia and the whole energy area, we have made significant steps with regard to creating a partnership of equals.
i did not get a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to my question, but a very interesting résumé of the problems of climate change – all of which i agree with, but i already know.
would it be the council’s view that avoided deforestation would be part of our tools and mechanisms for reducing carbon dioxide emissions?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
clearly, there is an urgent need to increase the demand for bioenergy in order to combat climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce oil dependency and to enhance technology and economic development within the european union.
it is paramount for the future of bioenergy increase that this increase should not jeopardise european or third countries’ ability to achieve environmental priorities, such as halting the loss of biodiversity, protecting forests, preventing soil degradation and achieving the good ecological status of its water body.
i welcome the langen report’s inclusion of the environment committee’s request that the commission introduce a mandatory and comprehensive certification system.
bioenergy production should always comply with good agricultural practice and should not significantly affect domestic food production within the european union and in third countries, and incentives should not be intended as indirect subsidies but should be limited to that which provides the highest efficiency, as well as environmental and climate benefits.
however, we have decided to vote in favour as there are a lot of positive elements in the report, particularly its emphasis on renewable energy, which is clean, cost-effective and secure.