in simple terms, this means the invasion of european markets by products which are very cheap, but which in fact cost a great deal in terms of human rights violations, exploitation of workers and disregard for the environment.
in conclusion, mr president, we have a duty to insert in the wto rules strict rules on the protection of intellectual property, rules for the protection of quality products by means of geographical indication of origin, and also clauses requiring respect for the environment and the protection of workers.
the directive lacks, above all, a comparison of the environmental protection rules for the construction of new infrastructure and of the waste disposal policies.
we must clarify the rules on competitiveness in the face of the risks of unfair competition coming from the east and, even more so, the environmental guarantees for the mediterranean, which is under attack by operators who do not comply with community environmental legislation.
it is well known that sexual exploitation is part of a wider range of criminal activities, including sex tourism, drug trafficking, arms and radioactive waste smuggling.
the events of the international political news and, at the same time, the economic data, including the constant increase in the price of oil, bring to the attention of the union a clear and well-known situation: there is a structural problem of energy supply and a growing rate of dependence.
the world's demand for energy is increasing, the planet's resources are not unlimited and, in any case, our union does not have enough to meet its own needs.
the latest events show that the energy supply on which our economy is based can be called into question and that is a risk we absolutely cannot take.
it is essential also on the basis of the agreements signed, such as the european energy charter, which creates an interaction between europe, russia and the mediterranean countries to promote closer international synergy.
energy cooperation with third countries is a central dimension of the european supply strategy and contributes to the consolidation of stable international political relations.
on the one hand, it is therefore urgent to implement the recommendations recently made to the member states on the implementation of energy-saving measures, which require a serious commitment on the part of these institutions, the member states and each individual citizen.
on the other hand, we must finally tackle the complex and comprehensive debate on the choice of technological directions and the production and use of alternative and renewable energies.
it was said that action was needed today because it means that we can have the funds to facilitate this painful but absolutely necessary restructuring and to ensure compensation for farmers and sustainability in the sector in the long term.
in hoping that the amendments for improvement will be accepted, i would like to express my concern, however, because there has been no attempt to make a more courageous policy on the cap to guarantee the european union the energy independence it needs, by focusing on alternative or complementary energy sources to oil with energy produced from biomass, as professor prodi also argued.
in italy, savings of around eur 12 billion would be achieved; the commission has already proposed a budget of eur 120 billion for europe, which could be used to implement a policy which would best combine the objectives of reform with those of social justice, without sudden and excessive trauma, by taking active and positive action, rather than a welfare policy, on the environment, farmers and producers themselves, without, however, losing jobs.
this is a painful reform, but it is inevitable if europe is to meet its international commitments and at the same time ensure that the sector has a sustainable, competitive and long-term future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste management strategy is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive.
so do not worry about that and the waste thematic strategy is indeed a step forward.
i would now like to welcome, on behalf of the commission, the contribution of the european parliament to the review of the european union's strategy for sustainable development.
the excellent ferreira report contains many valuable proposals for revision, with particular attention to the environmental aspects of sustainable development.
following the adoption of the commission communication on the sustainable development strategy, the commission wishes to work more closely with parliament and the council and, on the basis of this communication, to achieve the adoption of a european strategy for sustainable development in june.
the commission presented three communications on the strategy in 2005: the guidelines in february, the draft declaration of principles on sustainable development adopted by the council in june and the revised strategy with targets and a more effective monitoring procedure on 13 december 2005. the ferreira report focuses mainly on the environmental aspects of sustainable development.
these aspects are indeed very important, given that unsustainable environmental trends are some of the main threats to our current and future well-being.
however, it should be stressed that the sustainable development strategy addresses all three dimensions of sustainable development, namely social, economic and environmental problems.
the wide range of challenges covered includes climate change and clean energy, natural resources, transport, public health, social exclusion, demography and migration, and global poverty.
sustainable development addresses issues that really matter to citizens.
they want prosperity, but they also want a clean environment, good health, social protection and justice.
the new strategy proposes a long-term vision for a sustainable europe that goes well beyond 2010. sustainable development is a key objective of the union.
both the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy are geared towards achieving this goal in a rapidly changing world.
the lisbon strategy and the strategy for sustainable development are mutually reinforcing.
a strategy agreed at european level is essential if we are to mobilise european society to make significant changes and to set the european union on a more sustainable path.
the commission is not the present report by mrs ferreira is a very comprehensive, sound and good and also critical policy paper on the main areas of environmental and social policy.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the many fine principles of environmental and social policy must also be translated into concrete measures.
the eu has an ethical duty to remain the key player in global sustainability.
the commitment to a more united europe, with more defined competences for each institution, more agile and closer to the citizens, must also see us united and determined to tackle three other emergencies: immigration, the energy plan and the environment.
without energy there is no development, just as energy waste creates irreparable damage.
energy cannot be used without safety, disposal and the protection of the environment as a common good and a condition for survival.
the problems connected with climate change have not been actively addressed by the finance ministers of the member states to date, despite the numerous economic consequences of these changes.
a common environmental policy is a necessity for the union at home and also a necessity for the union in relation to the rest of the world, because it is part of the duties and objectives which we also set ourselves during the work of the convention for the treaty.
we are not in this because of our merits or because of the emotional climate in which we risk voting.
in short, we are not prepared because we risk voting emotionally in a climate that risks putting us in two bad conditions: or show arrogance... (speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr costa, your request is very clear.
(the sitting was suspended at 1.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
security, energy, immigration, environment and rights need a vision and political dialogue, as well as specific institutions to make progress together.
alongside the action plans the commission is negotiating, this is the dimension that must be strengthened, also through specific policies, such as energy, which the commissioner rightly mentioned, and which the european parliament had already indicated in 2003 as the subject of attention in relations with neighbouring countries, attention which we are renewing today by calling for the preparation of a communication on the aspects of energy policy concerning foreign and neighbourhood policy.
we are improving the health system, building schools and repairing roads, making improvements as regards solid waste, sewage waste and electricity grids.
i inaugurated some public works programmes and also announced the launch of four new energy and environment infrastructure projects in gaza worth eur 20 million.
from this point of view, i am glad that the hamas candidates have signed the code of conduct, although there is still a general feeling of concern about the climate of violence in which the elections will take place, especially in gaza.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the resolution on the adoption of management measures applicable to fisheries resources in the mediterranean, which we shall be voting on tomorrow in this house, has a strong economic, social and environmental significance.
how dare we continue to put fishermen on the hook for undermining the environmental sustainability of fishing, if the rules, mr president, are out of date and out of context?
mr president, during the debate on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean, i already had the opportunity to say that the compromise reached by parliament and the commission - while not giving us too much enthusiasm - is undoubtedly an improvement on the initial proposal.
i would like to pay tribute to this man and his sacrifice, also because he is taking part in a climate of tension between the islamic world and europe.
i think the key is to reduce the number of state aids, to reward some of the areas that have been mentioned, such as innovation, research, the environment and business, and to ensure greater transparency.
firstly, it is ambitious in its method because, through the procedure under article 39, parliament takes an active role and asks the commission to present a legislative act which is important to fill a gap, to put that missing piece in the establishment of the legislative and legal framework, which allows to make a significant step forward towards the use of renewable energies, in particular for the heating and cooling sector.
i think that everyone has an immediate reaction to the fact that 50 per cent of europe's energy needs are used for heating.
this highlights the clear need for legislation, without which the sector cannot grow, which was also recognised by the commission in its report on energy efficiency.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about a percentage above 20%, we hope that it will be a significant percentage, more than double the current share of renewable energy sources.
we are asking the commission and subsequently the member states to do serious and meaningful work in implementing the directive in order to reduce that energy dependence which could also have a strong impact on our future growth and development.
a well-founded criticism concerns certain exclusions and derogations in certain sectors, which have a real negative impact on the prospects for competitive growth in european production, economic and social systems, such as professional activities, banking, financial and insurance services and energy supplies.
however, in a diverse environment such as the european one, with new countries looking for opportunities and old countries trying to protect themselves, with small and large businesses and 25 different legislative systems, compromise is the only way forward.
the behaviour of the iranian leadership towards the international atomic energy agency has not helped to build the necessary foundation of trust between iran and the international community.
there are still strong doubts about iran's claims that it wants to develop nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes.
the recent actions of tehran, the breaking of the seals by the atomic energy agency and the suspension of the voluntary application of the additional protocol on safeguards are the exact opposite of the declarations of intent of the government of that country and of our attempts to find a negotiated solution.
iran feels invincible and unassailable in economic, industrial, financial and energy terms, and we therefore fear that any negotiation is doomed to failure.
it is enough to think of local craftsmanship, environmental protection, agricultural specialities and their traditional production techniques.
it is also necessary, as the rapporteur, mrs attwooll, has pointed out very strongly, to ensure the sustainable use of water resources and to make a determined effort to invest adequately in training.
i therefore call on the commission to relaunch, after a thorough review, directive 320 of 1992, which has been ignored by many member states so far, in order to achieve the full implementation of the quality of service policy and, with it, the objective of sustainable european tourism.
i would like to add to what mr papadimoulis said about the additions made by the environment committee to the commission's proposal on the principle of extending the scope of the regulation to marine pollution that there are no other specific instruments for dealing with the consequences of marine disasters.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
a final important amendment was approved by the committee on the environment, namely that aimed at enhancing both organised group and individual volunteering, as they can provide vital services in the absence of emergency workers whose arrival may be delayed following a major disaster.
the agenda includes the report by mr reino paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on an information society for growth and jobs (2005/2167 (ini)) (a6-0036/2006).
the charter must include in particular the right to free and open access, and therefore non-discriminatory, to transparent, pluralistic and comprehensive information in a secure environment through telecommunications services and platforms based on open and interoperable standards, for example the portability of e-mail addresses.
i will be very clear on this: the telecom regulation - a very positive example, by the way, which is now being considered as a basis for reforming the market and the regulatory framework in the fields of transport and energy - is not designed to regulate, it is designed to deregulate, to open up markets to competition.
europe must develop legislation to promote trade marks to ensure geographical origin and respect for social and environmental rules.
these will be crushed once and for all by unfair competition from very low-cost goods produced without any serious checks on the conditions in the production and distribution chain, both as regards the environmental impact and the social and employment guarantees of the workforce.
we demand not only vigilance but also active defence of the genius and quality of the european footwear industry, by severely restricting imports, imposing duties and certifying the social and environmental ethics of products, as i have already called for on other occasions.
the environment in which member states and members of this house come to judge the market economy status of china will be helped and encouraged by china doing more than it is at the moment to open its markets to our exports and to others’ trade, to make sure that it is in full compliance with its wto accession commitments, and to make sure that where it is taking longer than is reasonable to move towards full compliance with those commitments and wto rules it makes the necessary changes sooner rather than later.
the commission's calls for change and innovation are reasonable and interesting, but they only make sense in a truly fair and just competitive environment, and the commission has a duty to ensure that the international market is fair and just.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of fishing methods which respect the marine environment shows that the european union is acutely aware of the difficulties facing the sector and of the need for structural measures to ensure the responsible exploitation of aquatic resources.
adopting measures to protect and conserve living aquatic resources, to ensure their sustainable exploitation, to identify compensatory measures for lost income, to support development through research and innovation, are priority commitments defined in this report.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is good that the european union is using its influence to make the whole more than the sum of its parts by strengthening research and development, by unlocking the potential of enterprises, by promoting enlargement and better use of the quality of the workforce, by energy measures, but all this is subject to a premise: european added value is only fully expressed if it can be the fruit of the work of a truly unified european society and economy, if results are achieved through the european union's core business.
we need an energy plan that makes the european union independent of the current geopolitical instability and we need to devote the utmost attention to new sources of energy in order to ensure sustainable development, including environmental sustainability.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i ask that competition be organized as well; we also discussed this with commissioner kroes this morning, and i thank her for her willingness to discuss energy competition.
i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the crisis.
what happened now confirms it: europe is struggling to have an innovative energy policy commensurate with the problems posed by the kyoto protocol and the need for new and different development.
the world has seen dramatic wars for control of oil resources and now this conflict is moving into europe: the solution is not protectionism, of course, but a more equitable use of available energy and the promotion of energy saving and renewable sources.
we must create economic and social models that are not energy-intensive, and aim at cooperation with other continents.
neither liberalism nor protectionism, but a different energy policy, shared and in solidarity with europe and the world - that must be our role!
the first, between gaz de france and suez, is unnatural because it creates an energy monopoly in belgium in the gas and electricity sectors and further closes the french market to the presence of competitors; the second merger, between enel and suez, could lead to diversification in the french and belgian energy markets.
the principle of reciprocity in relations between european countries in the energy sector is essential for a european energy market serving consumers and for a common european energy policy.
in italy, large space has been given to energy companies from other countries through privatisation and liberalisation policies.
the french violation of the principle of reciprocity in this case is not justified by the need to guarantee energy autonomy through national samples, but is instead an expression of a policy of excessive nationalism: france already has its national energy champions, it does not need to create new ones.
the merger between gaz de france and suez, which controls the belgian electrabel, would pose a serious risk of encouraging protectionist tendencies not only in the energy sector but also in other industrial, financial and service sectors.
finally, in some sectors we will inevitably have oligopolistic structures, for example in energy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the italian delegation of the udc-svp has in recent weeks submitted a written question to the commission to highlight the contradictions of a european energy policy which seems to be in crisis.
the french government's decision to create another energy giant in violation of the principles of the european market will have negative consequences.
in the face of such an anomaly, we could not help but raise the question responsibly, asking ourselves what energy policy our europe intends to pursue.
the prospect of a pan-european industrial context, which president barroso has revived with the adoption of the green paper on energy, gives us hope at last.
the policy of international import agreements must therefore be renegotiated, and specifically that no tariff concessions are granted to products from third countries which do not comply with european standards on labour (including child labour), the environment, taxation, etc.
i therefore suggest that you say one sentence less as long as the interpreters read at a sustainable speed or that you give your speech to the interpreters sooner so that they keep up with your reading pace.
thirdly, the energy question.
we have a problem, you know that there are differences of opinion on this subject and in particular that we do not think that nuclear energy and renewable energy can be put on the same level, they are two different things.
we are aware that nuclear energy exists on this continent, but we cannot consider this to be the energy of the future for our continent, not least because, and this is not a secondary element, we must import uranium anyway, not the sun and the wind!
we must consider very clearly and very concretely that we cannot depend on nuclear energy, that nuclear energy meets only part of our needs today and that it is certainly not an option for the future.
in addition, there is still a complete gap in the commission's strategy on energy issues and it is the silence on the transport question: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in the past few weeks with the suez-enel case and what is happening these days with regard to the e.on deal with endesa, which has been hampered by the spanish government's decree extending the powers of the national energy commission, is a confirmation of a tendency by the states to invade the principles and rules which inspire the union.
the commission has examined the energy problem in all its aspects with an almost accurate and appreciable analysis which i do not mention here because it is known to everyone.
in yesterday's statements, president barroso also mentioned the existence of 25 energy markets and 25 different energy policies.
in addition to this devastating impact on the desired convergence of eu policies, there is a need to ensure the physical security of europe's energy infrastructure against the risks of natural disasters and terrorist attacks, as well as security against political risks including supply disruptions.
the question i ask each and every one of you is: 'can europe be governed by 25 different governments, or is it time for europe's strategy on foreign, security and energy policy to have a single decision-making centre to enable it to respond in a timely and coherent way to the challenges of today's fast-moving modern world? "
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's dependence on energy is a matter of concern, as the commission's green paper shows.
italy is even more dependent on energy, as the enea and istat data show.
italy has an energy production capacity of only about 30 million tonnes of oil equivalent, has to import energy from abroad and the growth of dependence has reached about 85% in 2005 against 83% in 2001 and 81% in 1995. in the union, only ireland, luxembourg and portugal have a higher dependency than italy.
italy's energy needs are therefore heavily dependent on oil for 45% and gas for 32%.
rising energy prices mean that everyone spends more on gasoline, electricity and gas, but environmental concerns also influence the choices made in this area, so that the nuclear option is again relevant.
to combat energy dependence, the supply system needs to be made more flexible, energy use needs to be rationalised, energy needs to be distributed locally, whether with small conventional or renewable plants, and research needs to be increased: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, such as the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, and finally the relaunch of nuclear energy.
gas and oil from iran to china and russia, energy flows and resources on which european companies have invested huge research capital for decades, all wasted in the service of extra-european interests.
this means that europe is once again losing a great opportunity for development, security and social well-being, increasing its dependence, not only on energy but also on politics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy policy has an obvious external dimension, which emerged dramatically from the crisis between russia and ukraine last january.
the energy question has been addressed in a fragmented way: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, from market liberalisation to security of supply, efficiency and better use of resources.
the answers to these questions require something very close to a european-wide energy plan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is really time for europe to have a comprehensive and complete energy strategy in which we, commissioner and mr council representative, ask that parliament play a central role.
in the energy field, some countries have overcome the logic of monopolies, others have not.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
second point of order: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
these are the european objectives of a community energy policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to establish a common energy policy, the commission must first complete the liberalization of the gas and electricity markets.
energy, as we know, is both a factor of production and a consumer good, both essential for the development of our economy and for maintaining a high standard of living.
the common energy policy, together with a common foreign policy, are the instruments for pursuing these objectives in an enlarged europe.
russia is an inevitable supplier on the european energy market, but one cannot be too attached to it.
the diversification of energy supply is therefore essential and it is essential to find european solutions in the field of supply.
diversifying supply sources seems to be the answer, as do improvements to energy transmission networks, gas pipelines and ports.
it is important to develop an energy dimension in the european union's strategy and security and to increase public and private investment in alternative and renewable resources.
in short, an energy policy as the material constitution of the new europe is the message we should be giving to our citizens: will we be able to do this?
development is difficult to define, but when my report asks the commission to protect the water, health and education sectors from liberalisation, it is essentially about rights that must be guaranteed, as when the cape town declaration is cited, the acp-eu joint assembly also has the competence to set development indicators to assess the achievement of results and trade negotiations, calling for social and environmental indicators such as the creation of decent work, health, education, gender equality to be included.
the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
the union's cooperation policies must include priorities aimed at transforming the internal processes in these countries, promoting a stable, open and democratic political climate and an increase in welfare.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not demographic change is perhaps the biggest challenge, next to climate change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs laperrouze for her work on the european energy interconnection networks.
only at this level can the energy resource be managed in the best way: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used to the full, and that the community's energy resources are used to the full.
i could not agree more with mr de rossa and mrs van den burg that we must deliver, within the framework of europe, sustainable and full employment and social welfare; but at the end of the day we must also deliver more economic growth and more and better quality jobs.
there are very serious problems, particularly in environmental legislation, but also in legislation relating to the internal market, and the responsibility is, needless to say, primarily with the member states.
we do not agree, for example, with the idea that this transfer should be made to those who will be dealing with impact assessments, which is something that is being discussed in the commission at the moment, and thirdly - and this concerns us - we believe that the european parliament should intervene much more precisely on the subject of the application of community law, not to touch the commission's powers - i know that this is a very worrying subject for the members of this institution - but, on the contrary, to get, as the committee on the environment and other committees do, a more precise idea of what is happening.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to say to president barroso that what has been decided today on energy shows that when you want to, you can and therefore we 'would like' you to 'can' in a greater number of cases, particularly on environmental, consumer and health policy issues; but that's the obvious message.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
however, other concomitant actions are needed: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn.
i personally believe that it is essential to strengthen the link between the european capital of culture programme and the great theme of tourism, in order to exploit fully the enormous economic and social potential that an event of this magnitude can produce and also to ensure that it constitutes a motor for the sustainable development of the city and the surrounding area.
it was clear from our unanimous vote in the committee on the environment that the shortening of the time should not be at the expense of careful scientific checks on the veracity of the statements on the labels.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the reason we are facing this debate today is because of the novelty that constitutes an even more serious challenge to our territory: climate change due to global warming.
let me explain: as the territory is subject to multiple challenges, maintenance is required that addresses all of the issues in question: water safety, increasing retention times of our waterways; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the risk of fires in the forests, including the use of biomass for energy purposes.
we need to strengthen all of the european union’s existing instruments for the benefit of our environment and, more importantly, for the safety and wellbeing of our citizens.
if the european union is to be loved by its citizens, it must prove that it works, but in recent years no major initiative has been taken on the environment, on the labour market, on peace, development, human rights, the integration of new citizens, and so there is only one thing to say: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
even the socialists who did not vote or the greens who did not vote for the constitution will not be able to be won over by the idea that we must follow the same growth as the americans, the chinese or the indians because that creates poverty, consumption and waste of resources.
i should like to point out, mr president, that in your speech you never once mentioned the major environmental and ecological challenges we face, a sign, alas, that the greens' exit from your government may even set back your thinking on the question of sustainability.
mr president, we are of the opinion that a european constitution is indeed necessary and that we must find ways of winning over the citizens behind this term, but it is certainly not with more market, more liberalization, more arms that we could do this and only by really changing europe's policies towards greater sustainability that we will succeed.
thirdly: economic and trade confrontation with china and india, two large emerging countries which are, however, preparing an alliance between themselves; challenge number four: the energy question, including nuclear energy; fifth: immigration and the african emergency; sixthly, the enlargement of the frontiers, starting with the accession of romania and bulgaria and then croatia, without closing the doors to other applicant countries.
this report demonstrates why high energy efficiency needs to be on the agenda of the european union.
constantly increasing energy efficiency levels is the most important viable long-term policy in order to achieve a sustainable, competitive and secure energy policy for europe.
indeed, we will integrate your considerations into our forthcoming action plan on energy efficiency, together with the results of the public hearing.
i also agree with your request for regular updates on the state of implementation of the directives dealing with energy efficiency.
you rightly point out that in these times of high energy prices, the 9% consumption reduction target over nine years in the directive on end-use efficiency and energy services may well be on the low side.
on this issue, i would like to mention the following: the commission is launching a comprehensive study on the energy efficiency potential in the different member states.
in relation to financial issues, we work with international financing institutions to integrate energy efficiency into their lending strategy.
i agree that fiscal measures can be a very effective instrument to further energy efficiency.
we will closely follow how member states integrate energy efficiency requirements into public procurement guidelines, as they are required to do under the energy services directives.
i will comment briefly on minimum efficiency standards for energy-using products, as well as labelling.
i am encouraged by your call on the commission and the member states to deploy more initiatives to increase energy efficiency in transport.
the commission will soon be coming forward with a mid-term review of the transport policy, and transport will also be one of the areas for action in the energy efficiency action plan.
on external relations, i agree that energy efficiency should be – in fact, it already is – a part of our relations with both energy suppliers and with the consuming regions.
however, there is room for more action, both to make full use of the competitive advantage that we already have through existing technologies, but also because it is important in fighting climate change and ensuring security of supply.
i think there is complete agreement between your report and our work, and i would ask you to continue your strong support for our work in the energy efficiency field.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
we have tried to say that we must be more determined to consider transport efficiency as the heart of a strategy to integrate the policies of competitiveness, sustainability, security of energy supply.
the recent crisis in the distribution of russian natural gas supplies has highlighted europe's dependence on imported energy sources, which is expected to increase significantly in the coming years.
controlling eu energy demand could prove to be an important component of solving the problem.
in addition to setting new objectives, we must consider existing legislation: if member states were to adopt it in full, the union's 20% energy saving target by 2010 would already be 50% achieved today.
the report proposes that energy efficiency objectives be integrated into other sectoral policies, such as fiscal policy, transport policy or cohesion policy.
i believe that the funds earmarked for eu regional policy should also be used to finance interregional and crossborder projects which allow for a transfer of know-how between member states and regions which lack the appropriate technological assets to implement greater energy efficiency.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position defined by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of groundwater against pollution (12062/1/2005 - c6-0055/2006 - 2003/0210 (cod)) (rapporteur: christa klaß) (a6-0146/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in september 2005 parliament adopted the resolution on sustainable tourism and about a month later, on 21 october, in malta, in an important but certainly informal meeting i am referring to the forum of trade unions and associations i had the opportunity to hear your speech in which you, without referring to the parliamentary debate, took up many of the points we had made in this house and in committee.
moreover, while it is not possible to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states, the european institutions may do so where this is necessary for the functioning of the internal market or where there is a specific legal basis, such as in the case of consumer, transport and environmental protection.
i would like to limit myself to two points, namely the seasonality that has been eliminated and the sustainability of the entire tourism industry.
sustainability: this is the main reason why i believe the commission should be more involved in tourism policy.
the most sustainable means of transport is the railway.
the agenda for the joint debate is: - the report by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the seventh framework programme of community activities in the field of research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) (com (2005) 0119 - c6-0099/2005 - 2005/0043 (cod)) (a6-0202/2006), and - the report by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the seventh framework programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for research and training activities in the nuclear field (2007-2011) - building europe's knowledge (com (2005) 0191 - c6-0121/2005 - 2005/0044 (cns) 0203-066).
all enterprises must be able to create a climate favourable to development and, consequently, to overall competitiveness.
as regards the ethical problems of medical research, i believe that the text adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy represents a balancing act, as the commissioner has pointed out, since it states that research activities aimed at human cloning, inducing heritable mutations in the human genome or creating human embryos cannot be funded.
the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life.
i personally think that the european effort in fusion research is important as a counter to nuclear fission energy.
i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy and mr chichester, who, with his wisdom and foresight, has scheduled the work so that the council's delay does not affect the outcome.
i therefore ask that the position of the committee on industry, research and energy be confirmed, which reconciles the views of those who are in favour of and those who are against embryonic stem cell research.
public support for research remains necessary in sensitive areas such as health, energy and the environment, and i think there is a great deal of agreement in this house.
if energy policy is a priority for europe, it is also essential that the establishment of a fully democratic area, based on respect for human rights and for ethnic and religious minorities, is carefully monitored.
i too thought that the question was exclusively about environmental aspects, but of course the social aspects and the impact on the population - which on the one hand is positive because it creates jobs, but on the other hand can have undoubtedly worrying consequences - are being considered by the bank.
the question your colleague asked me was strictly about environmental conditions, and i referred to those in my first answer, but i can assure you that the commission representative at the bank, mr lelakis, is fully aware and is following the impact of the project on the situation of the indigenous peoples in the area.
secondly, as regards the question of sustainable development, we find some very interesting statements in the final declarations we have received.
there must be stronger action on climate change, transport and biodiversity, and the eu funds must be used in a more environmentally friendly way.
on the contrary, we are now seeing a step backwards, with a series of proposals on air, waste and many other issues that are really leaving us very perplexed.
president winkler, as far as energy is concerned, we are a little concerned that the only priority mentioned in the conclusions is the acquisition of resources and the transfer of these resources to the transit countries, while no mention is made of eco-efficiency and renewable energies.
the inability to produce development because of the inability to guide the processes of globalisation and to give the necessary impetus to an energy development model that addresses the problems that arise at the domestic and international level ... (the text of the explanation of vote was withdrawn pursuant to rule 163)
author of the book.
five years later, perhaps it is time to integrate them more, perhaps even with a word effect, with a neologism like lisboteborg, in order to overcome this contradiction and this opposition between competitiveness and the environment.
i very much agree with the need to define a concise set of indicators, let us say multi-criteria, which provide a regular and permanent measure of progress towards sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic theory based on sustainable development is abandoning the approach based solely on the analysis of gdp and employment for an interpretation of the economic situation of a country.
the european strategy for sustainable development and the lisbon agenda must integrate the economic dimension with the social and environmental dimension in order to ensure long-term development.
for the success of this strategy, action at all levels of governance is essential, from the most important international and national organisations to the local agenda 21, which is finally becoming one of the most important engines for the spread of a sustainable management model in italy.
acting locally is the key principle to achieving important objectives such as conserving the remaining natural capital, reducing the pressure on the world around us and improving the efficiency of end-use of products, for example through the promotion of energy-efficient structures and environmentally friendly urban transport modes.
only in this way will all actors in the sustainable economy be encouraged to move towards an environmentally and socially compatible model.
in europe, much remains to be done to ensure a renewable energy supply in order to protect the environment from pollution and the excessive and irreversible exploitation of natural resources.
in this context, i believe it is essential that sustainable development indicators be developed and improved, which should be easily understandable and accessible to the general public.
in managing the new development instruments, it will be essential to seek consistency with the lisbon strategy by providing for short, medium and long-term planning for the achievement of the objectives set, namely efficiency, effectiveness and economy, with particular emphasis on growth without forgetting environmental protection.
we believe that the role of sustainable development policies in the external dimension, particularly in relation to developing countries, is of vital importance, since in many cases it is precisely in these countries, which unfortunately still lack alternative economic settings, that indiscriminate exploitation of resources is found.
new policies must therefore be based on a sound plan for sustainable development from which all the world's people can benefit without distinction.
the european institutions, in the world's interest, must offer signs of a political convergence that is finally based on solidarity, aimed at reducing the indiscriminate exploitation of non-renewable resources, while at the same time committing themselves to promoting research and development in environmentally friendly techniques.
we have been stressing for many years the need for sustainable exploitation of fisheries, particularly in the mediterranean, and we repeat what has been emphasized in the report under discussion today.
unfortunately, the limited time available does not allow us to go into some interesting topics, such as gender equality in the fishing industry, safety on board fishing vessels, alternative energy sources in the face of the high price of diesel and fleet modernisation.
the coastal fisheries sector can and must make an important economic activity compatible with the necessary and proper preservation of the marine environment.
the report rightly and finally considers the role of women to be important, acknowledges the difficulties they face in operating in this sector, recalls the issue of safety on board, stresses the importance of vocational training and the role that coastal fishing can play in protecting and preserving the coastal marine environment.
firstly, while we believe that coastal resources must be protected and that legislation must be introduced for a sustainable and environmentally friendly type of fishing, the proposal to abolish all fishing techniques that threaten the survival of coastal resources and the economic sustainability of the social fabric linked to fishing is certainly a right provision but one that puts many operators in difficulty, who would be left without work in the absence of valid alternative proposals for a sector that is already experiencing a severe employment crisis.
i am sure that the honourable member will have noticed the extent of the debate on article 6 on bioethics, in which the so-called compromise tabled by the committee on industry, research and energy received a margin of just over 40 votes, a margin which is certainly substantial but not a majority.
i am very sorry to say, mr president, that this presidency will also be remembered for an unprecedented increase in the european nuclear energy research budget, with the result that a continent which has virtually no non-renewable energy resources has decided to invest four or five times as much in a dangerous technology instead of tackling the problem of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
as far as sustainable development is concerned, i think the council's conclusions are nothing but a tired repetition of objectives which have already been stated and reiterated - objectives which, unfortunately, have not been achieved - and not much is said about what should be done in practice.
in addition, the very timid reference to the ecological footprint and the commitment to reduce our use of resources by 3% a year has been removed from the conclusions.
in the era of globalisation, the member states alone cannot solve the big questions of immigration, the fight against terrorism, energy policy, market and budgetary liberalisation.
this is a response to the large need for financing in the environment and transport sectors in the beneficiary member states, with particular attention to sustainable development, through a balanced but at the same time flexible allocation, i.e.
outside the transeuropean networks, the cohesion fund will be available for projects in the field of transport, including urban, rail, inland waterways and maritime transport, multimodal programmes, and actions promoting sustainable development and enhancing the environmental dimension, with particular regard to the key areas of energy efficiency and renewable sources.
there has been a greater recognition of environmental protection and sustainable development, as mr hatzidakis has just pointed out.
in addition, parliament's intervention has led to greater attention being paid to the urban dimension - a subject which is very dear to mr beaupuy, to me and to many others of us - by emphasizing the driving force which a good investment programme and the management of funds directed to cities can have for the economic and socio-cultural revival of the suburbs and the surrounding rural areas, which are the real driving force behind the sustainable and lasting development of the territories.
parliament has always supported, tried to improve and defended, insisting on certain aspects which we consider important, relating to quality, spending, sustainable development, environmental protection, equal opportunities, access for the disabled, public security and crossborder cooperation.
the european parliament's contribution was also a concrete contribution on specific points, as it paid particular attention to environmental issues, sustainable development, urban policy, small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy, and also to security.
despite the partial acceptance of some proposals, the objective of supporting regional policies based on competitiveness, employment, environmental protection and support for people with reduced abilities seems sufficiently focused.
it has been decided to invest in human capital, innovation and the promotion of the knowledge society, entrepreneurship, environmental protection and more.
i hope that the regions will rise to the challenge and turn the guidance and resources provided by these institutions into concrete plans for economic and social development, focusing above all on full employment and the intelligent and sustainable exploitation of the human, artistic and natural resources they have at their disposal in large quantities and of high quality.
finally, i would urge the member states and regions, while recognising research and innovation as a top priority, not to waste too much time in the transposition procedures and in the start of implementation of the various programmes and actions, because time for innovation is precious.
the support given by the commission and the member states to their strategic sectors - as you said, commissioner - is not directing or public intervention, policies which are obsolete in the integrated market and in the european and world free market, but it is the ability to promote industrial policies which are able to face change, prevent it or guide it, which create an attractive environment for international investment, which, in short, are able to accompany the many crises in the european production system and to face the challenges of the future.
on the other hand, it is understood that an industrial policy is an integrated policy, which requires integrated concrete action, but it must also be designed - and here we ask the commission to make a further effort - keeping in mind all the different aspects, those purely industrial, those of research, energy and those of trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission's proposal for a directive on the control of shipments of waste is balanced and incorporates many of the points made by the european parliament during the debate on the previous proposal.
the amendments tabled by the greens raise a problem which we can all agree with, but i think that the commission's text, more precisely article 13, already places limits on exports, particularly to those countries which do not have the technical, legal and administrative resources to ensure safe management of radioactive waste, so we will vote against the greens' amendments.
it is this option that undermines the social and environmental objectives that we are trying to achieve.
let's take energy.
it cannot be regarded as a commodity like any other, it is the central theme of the future, which requires that we go down the road of kyoto and far beyond, that we switch to renewable sources, that we abandon fossil fuels, that we do not run the intolerable risks of nuclear energy; that there is fairness, solidarity and not conflict, trade wars or even, as it happens, military wars; it requires a different vision of the economy, of society, of politics, of democracy.
europe speaks of an energy community and that is a good idea, but this community, in order to exist, needs the above choices, made together with the others - from russia, to south america, to africa - and not against them.
the g8 summit will be held in st petersburg in a few days' time, and europe - although the venue is highly questionable and unacceptable to us - will have to bring these proposals to you, which are summed up in the concept of energy as a common good of the future.
while reach is primarily about protecting human health and the environment, it is also a powerful stimulus for innovation.
while it is clear that ‘made in’ marking as such does not contain information on the social, labour or environmental conditions in the country of production, origin information helps the consumer to choose between different available alternatives according to their preferences and the background information they already have.
concerning the enforcement of the proposal, the commission considers that customs authorities are well placed to ensure that the requirements of the proposed scheme are respected, just as they do with many other rules on environmental, health and technical issues.
the indication of the country of origin of the goods is a guarantee for the consumer who is finally able to associate with his choices safety and quality assessments, in addition to those on the social and environmental conditions in force in the country of origin of the goods.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs voted overwhelmingly in favour of the proposal because it aims to phase out the registration tax on cars and to identify common european standards for national road taxes to be linked to polluting emissions.
finally, it is a step forward on the road to social and environmental sustainability of development, which includes the fight against pollution and the protection of the environment to ensure a future for the generations that come after us.
europe, a constant promoter of an evolution of international maritime law to protect the environment, has already achieved the phasing out of single-hull oil tankers on a world scale and increased compensation for victims of oil pollution, has supplemented existing international standards by introducing stricter inspections in community ports, more effective controls of classification societies and more extensive monitoring of maritime traffic.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to note that civil protection has only been discussed in this house for a few years and that it is always discussed according to the type of disaster: the earthquake, the day before yesterday, the marine pollution yesterday, the fires and floods today and so on, fragmented topics, fragmented skills, fragmented resources.
a european model of society, able to combine economic growth, high employment and social cohesion, provides a sustainable basis for finding answers to the challenges of globalisation and ageing.
we must ensure the long-term sustainability and adequacy of social protection systems.
while the conclusions may be less positive in terms of growth potential and fiscal sustainability, a long-term and proactive reform policy is essential.
the union is a key global actor with the objective of promoting democracy, human rights and sustainable development.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme: national allocation plans (2008-2012).
we are very critical of what may be a mere buying and selling of the right to pollute, to the detriment of the underdeveloped countries, which is even ineffective, as we have heard, in actually reducing emissions.
we must be very clear, especially on the eve of a conference between the parties, the 13th on climate, which will be held in nairobi, symbolically in africa.
we must not make a market out of pollution but promote new environmental development through cooperation policies which must enable the richer countries to produce much less polluting products and the poorer countries to be helped to develop by giving them access to new environmental technologies.
the main benefits of the agreement are the creation of a free trade area, a serious commitment to cooperation in areas of common interest and, above all, the promotion of a more stable and reassuring legal environment for foreign investors.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, the success of the ceasefire is already an important achievement in a war which in a few weeks caused a great many casualties, destruction of infrastructure and the environment, and which threatened to spread throughout the region.
it could be the beginning of a new climate between the parties, but first of all we must stop the spiral of violence.
for all these reasons we shall vote in favour of the belder report, supporting certain amendments which also concern environmental matters.
unfortunately, these are all well-known issues, but it is time to identify solutions and, above all, concrete means to deal more effectively with unfair competition and social and environmental dumping by china.
how do the many brands that exist today protect fisheries and allow us to say that fisheries are sustainable?
we share this choice, but it must be stressed first of all that the implementation of an ecological quality system has a strong impact on the production of the entire chain: the first step is to initiate and strengthen the dialogue with the operators in the sector in order to carefully assess the consequences for the sector of the choices to be made for this certification system.
secondly, the specificities and peculiarities of the coast where the system will be applied must be borne in mind: the rules and regulations will therefore have to be adapted to the realities of the local ecological, environmental and socioeconomic system.
finally, attention must be paid to the fact that the implementation of an ecological quality label for fisheries products must be perfectly integrated with the existing recognised quality systems, in order to avoid overlaps and contradictions between the regulations, to avoid confusion among consumers, to create synergies between the systems and to save resources.
the cultural, natural and architectural heritage - it would perhaps be more appropriate to speak of architecture, landscape and historical and landscape assets, terms which together better define the integration to be sought in the synergy between natural and anthropic landscape - is certainly fundamental to spreading social, economic and environmental well-being, especially in those areas of our europe which present landscape fragility, but also the socioeconomic and demographic fabric.
rural communities are not only part of our collective memory, they are the cradle of values, the forge of social relations which are often much more balanced than those of urban communities, and they are absolutely essential for the preservation of culture and the environment.
it is therefore a matter of priority to protect this enormous heritage, to develop a local development project aimed at activating and encouraging the valorisation of culture and environmental resources, to make them an instrument of growth for an economy that is currently in difficulty.
the overall strategy for the european union's cultural heritage must become a genuine cross-cutting element of other policies, as must environmental sustainability, and all policies must complement each other in this respect.
the high number of respiratory diseases and loss of life due to high levels of air pollution shows the urgency and the imperative need for further community legislation on health protection, which will further limit emissions harmful to humans.
the support of the enu for the krahmer report is a further incentive for the fight against air pollution in europe to be strengthened in the years to come.
the new strategic guidelines adopted today in this chamber place a greater focus on growth, indicating that in future cohesion policy will have to put emphasis on the knowledge and information society, entrepreneurship, the environment and employment, in order to promote an even more balanced and sustainable development of the community.
the member states have now realised, perhaps belatedly, from the numerous tragedies in the mediterranean, that migration phenomena no longer concern the peripheral states of the eu and that the general objectives of economic growth can only be achieved in a climate of general security.
nuclear energy is used only as a deterrent in the long-running war with neighbouring pakistan, it is not used to the full for the purposes of environmentally friendly development, and this makes the country dependent on foreign energy and forces it to look to the world for the energy sources needed for its development.
we therefore feel that a strategic partnership between these two great blocs is necessary in order to create a more favourable climate for cooperation, with better mutual knowledge, which will make it possible to reduce the barriers between them in accordance with common rules.
rescue aid should be extended to 12 months, with an increase from eur 30 000 to eur 100 000. the european fisheries fund must continue to provide aid for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, in particular by allowing the replacement of engines, in order to ensure safety and protection for workers and the environment.
nor can we forget the role of research, which must be carried out and developed in order to increase energy efficiency, reduce costs and ensure the protection of fisheries and fisheries systems.
in our view, to support and promote the sector as a factor in the economy of development, in the sustainable management of marine resources and in the full employment of coastal communities, it is essential to invest economic resources in the modernization of fleets, in the training of personnel and in the improvement of living and working conditions for seafarers.
they can play a positive role in achieving important economic, social and environmental goals and i hope that they can meet the needs of citizens and thus contribute to the well-being of nations.
increased funding for this branch of research is essential to ensure the competitiveness of the european industrial system, while respecting inalienable ethical principles and public health and environmental criteria.
i agree with some of the amendments tabled by mr hammerstein and mr breyer, namely: amendment 1 to paragraph 2 is a useful and prudent recommendation on the assessment of potential risks to human health and the environment and the further social and ethical implications, which does not take anything away from the original text; amendment no 6 to the proposal that research aid should be granted only to projects which use at least half of the resources for risk assessment; amendment no 8, which stresses that risk assessment must be carried out throughout the life cycle of nanotechnology products, from design to disposal.
the report rightly considers both the economic and strategic prospects of the knowledge triangle and the needs of sustainability and health.
nanotechnologies are extremely important, starting with nanoelectronics, which allows us to achieve increasingly high efficiency with less energy consumption than current microelectronics, as confirmed by the activity of the platform.
the nanometric size of the particles imposes considerations on the risks related to a new toxicology, according to the available evidence there is a direct transparency of the cell membranes to these particles and therefore a possible attack of these particles on nucleic acids; i think it's only right that we put resources and energy into this.
i would like to make two observations, the first of which concerns the political climate.
let's put a label on ethical, work ethics and environmental, more generally, production process ethics.
parliament is taking a clear position on services: the commission's intention is to gradually remove regulatory barriers and obstacles, not so much to pursue uncritical positions and a certain intolerance of the lax and rigid rules, or to dismantle the existing system, but to promote positive competition and openness to transparency and innovation, which are fundamental elements of sustainable economic growth and consumer protection.
however, the resources allocated to life+ for the period 2007-2013 are not sufficient to meet the environmental challenges of the coming years and thus risk undermining the positive achievements already made.
i would also like to stress the importance of the use of european environmental funds, which must not be used to make up for the financial deficits of the member states - it has been pointed out on several occasions that they are often used to pay civil servants - but to implement european projects that give substance to the sustainable development strategy of gothenburg.
finally, i welcome the fact that the new life+ programming is paying greater attention to the problem of energy efficiency, providing financial support for new technologies, and i agree with the rapporteur on the need to involve civil society more in the preparation of both multiannual and annual national programmes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the report by mr isler béguin on the financial instrument for the environment, i would like to express my extreme concern about the environment of pensioners in italy.
i voted in favour of the report, but i would have voted much more willingly if this directive had not only protected the environment but also protected italian pensioners.
it is not a good environment to deprive pensioners of their right to a fair pension.
we believe that support for democratic russia and those who, like anna politkovskaya, fought and are fighting against the authoritarian drift of the putin regime is perfectly consistent with the attempt to ensure the energy supply of our continent, compliance with the kyoto protocol and the development of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
our group congratulates president borrell on this, but we also warmly express our disagreement with him and the finnish government for their clear support for the revival of nuclear energy.
whether we like it or not - and the iranian case clearly demonstrates this - there is a clear link between the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the alleged peaceful use of nuclear energy.
there must therefore be no trade-off between rights and energy.
we must develop a strategy that aims to reduce unsustainable consumption and the terrible inefficiencies in transport, construction and electricity systems, and that also emphasizes the excellence of our companies in the development of renewable energy.
it is clear that russia needs us for energy cooperation as much as we need an economic partnership agreement with russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk to china about trade, agriculture, the united states or energy, or when we intervene in crisis areas such as lebanon or the middle east in general, the theme has always been the same: the european union is not a country that is going to be able to cope with the crisis, to resist it, to achieve its goals and ambitions on its own.
so even with energy and the issue of relations with russia, and with increasingly disturbing leadership, the theme is always the same: europe must be united and speak with one voice.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two reports we are discussing could not have come at a more opportune time, namely when we are discussing the infamous construction of the baltic gas pipeline which, in the absence of a serious environmental impact study, is likely to lead to an ecological catastrophe in a sea already suffering from a worrying level of pollution.
not only that: the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean, whose fish stocks are becoming increasingly scarce, also suffer in some areas from high pollution due, among other things, to the extraction but above all to the refining of oil.
in the same industrial zone, in addition to the very high level of air pollution, which leads to the dramatic problem of neonatal malformations and the unsustainable cancer mortality rate - even 57 per cent higher than the italian average - the problem of marine pollution emerges.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the marine environment strategy and the amendments which we think will improve it are therefore welcome.
it is desirable, above all, that the time taken to achieve the objectives of good ecological and environmental status be shortened.
the european coastline stretches over 100 000 km, where 16% of europe's citizens live, many of whom are deeply connected to the sea for work, leisure, sport or as a source of natural and energy resources.
in the case of closed or partially closed seas, such as the black sea, the baltic and the mediterranean, the risk of pollution is particularly high.
the proposal for a directive on the marine environment strategy, which is both timely and awaited, should complement and strengthen the current policy framework for the protection of the marine environment in europe.
its effectiveness will determine the future health of europe's seas, and it has the potential to provide the environmental basis for the sustainable use of marine resources and functions, both in europe and beyond.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the blackout of the electricity grid on 4 november is a signal that must make us reflect on the urgency with which we must give common answers to the energy problem.
but it is important to impose better cooperation between regulators: we must speed up the creation of a single european regulatory authority, a european centre for energy networks, as proposed in the commission's green paper.
the internal market is a fundamental aspect of the common energy policy, which is more necessary and more urgent than ever and which must be pursued with greater courage.
together with the member states we must accelerate this process, overcoming national protectionist selfishness which holds back liberalization and competition on the market, so that events like the one on 4 november do not happen again and, above all, so that europe, as a single actor, moves in the delicate international geopolitical balances, ensuring secure, sustainable and supportive energy supplies.
in a way it has been a prelude to the debate to be held in the committee, because it has examined how best to ensure that the necessary investments are made in power and in the energy sector in general, and which are the best ways to guarantee that investments are made and the system functions properly.
i therefore support the proposals for the globalisation adjustment fund, the new generation of cohesion programmes and the innovation guidance proposed by commissioner hübner, which encourage regions to focus more on development and i hope that they will provide sufficient guidance and support to enable our smaller and more vulnerable businesses to respond to the new energy and trade challenges in the international arena.
i also believe that the commission, parliament and the council are doing quite well, having succeeded in these years in issuing a series of directives and regulations which answer the questions of the quality of the environment, the quality of life and greater integration.
at the same time, however, the directive provides guarantees and strengthens the prospect of a european market and system dimension, where free movement is possible not only because of competition, which is crushed by competition for costs and the risk of dumping, but also because of good rules or practices, which are designed to guarantee principles and interests which cannot be renounced, such as those relating to the guarantee of universal service, the general interest, including in areas of economic relevance, the objectives of business qualification, environmental protection and safety and basic social protection.
it would be a waste of time and energy, since without the two dutch and french ratifications, it is useless to proceed with others, which will have no practical effect anyway.
i agree with the commission's position, as expressed by mr buzek on the euratom framework programme, and i believe that europe must focus on the development of fusion, so that in the long term it can become an essential, unlimited, environmentally acceptable and economically competitive source of energy, capable of making an important contribution to a sustainable and secure energy supply.
iter is a key step on the road to the use of fusion energy.
in particular, an environment must be created that enables persons with disabilities to enjoy their rights, to have the same choice as non-disabled persons, to make decisions about their lives, to participate in the economic activities of life, to exercise their abilities in both their personal and professional lives and to fulfil their obligations as any other citizen.
this is why the relationship between health and the environment in which we live is also emphasized.
we have improved the balance through all the steps of this procedure, i am thinking of the answers we have given to the problems of small businesses, i am thinking of strengthening the protection of health and the environment, with particular regard to the risks to workers.
i thank everyone, jokingly and seriously, starting with the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz, all the shadow rapporteurs, including those who disagree with this result, the presidencies, and above all the finnish presidency, which has been a really crucial interlocutor, the commission, which perhaps did not give great acceleration blows, but which in the final phase was decisive in reaching this result.
if anyone had in mind the obligation to replace by decree, they would have voted on something which i have never put forward, either at first reading or in the committee on the environment.
i'm going to eat it tomorrow, but he kept it, and he showed me in a glass jar something that's a real ecological bomb.
in particular, there were two committees which cooperated more closely with the committee on the environment.
i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on the environment, mrs oomen-ruijten, mr chris davies, mr carl schlyter and caroline lucas, mr jens holm, mr johannes blokland, mr alessandro foglietta and the secretariats of the committees and political groups.
some may think that this is not a very good product, but it will work and i am sure that it will produce results which are very important for the safety of citizens, for health, for the environment and also for the competitiveness of the european industrial system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you, mr president, for allowing me to speak for the third time on this report by mr matthias groote on the protection of european citizens from harmful car emissions.
i voted in favour of this document in the hope that in the near future there will also be a directive against pollution by governments, because unfortunately governments sometimes produce pollution which is harmful to the health and environment of their citizens.
for the sake of brevity, i shall mention three: the first is the ratification of the constitution, the second is the question of the single seat at the un and, last but not least, energy autonomy.
the eu must be able to relaunch a strategic plan for renewable and alternative energy so that it no longer has a weak position vis-à-vis its major partners and can act decisively, that is, regardless of economic interests, even in the most serious crises.
the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
in addition, there is a need for greater clarity in the definition of second generation biofuels, in relation to the environmental impacts that their use and production may cause.
it is not the same to talk about biomass from waste rather than from forestry waste or something else.
there will be two funds, one for technological adaptation and the other for renewable and clean energy.
kofi annan is right to say that these directions require stronger political leadership, and it is europe that must express this political will, starting also with the submission by the national states of serious and documented plans for reducing emissions, in line with the kyoto objectives, and starting with the massive development of energy saving and renewable sources.
the european parliament, through its committee on the environment, could act as a stimulus and impetus in this direction, also through cooperation with the national parliaments.
i not only welcome the commission's green paper and mrs morgan's report on a sustainable european energy policy, but i hope that this strategy will become one of the priorities of our union as from 2007. as i had the opportunity to reiterate yesterday in this chamber and on other occasions, the eu's ability to implement an energy strategy - not only sustainable but also autonomous - and therefore its independence from the power games and economic interests that often play a role in this sector, are the key factors in many of the global challenges that lie ahead in the near future, not only in terms of competitiveness but also in terms of the political and strategic weight that the union wants and can achieve.
rather than finalising strategic agreements with existing and potential partners, research efforts should be stepped up and member states should be allowed to make the most of their sustainable energy resources, each according to its own characteristics and potential.
mr president, i would like to thank the finnish presidency for the generous commitment with which it has tackled issues of great importance immigration, the constitution, climate change although we would hope that you too, with a healthy nordic realism, would come with us to the conclusion that nuclear energy has nothing to do with solving the problem of climate change or emissions, as the delays of your new plant, its prohibitive costs and the great difficulties of its construction clearly demonstrate, and as the series of accidents that have occurred in recent months in different european locations, but which have been completely silenced, also demonstrate.
we must be absolutely aware that the best policy to adopt in relation to prime minister putin is a policy which makes us self-sufficient, or at least as self-sufficient as possible, which means reducing our consumption by 30% and promoting renewable energies even more convincingly.