madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the russian-ukrainian energy crisis has revealed the true face of russia as an economic partner and the hidden threat of using energy for political purposes.
my country, lithuania, having decided to regain its independence and to leave the soviet union, experienced similar russian actions - an economic and energy blockade - 15 years ago.
these concessions are mainly due to the european union's increasing energy dependence on russia.
i therefore invite everyone not only to talk about the development of a common energy policy, but also to take immediate action to achieve it.
the european union's energy dependence, with 50 or even 90 per cent of the energy resources of the eu member states owned by a single country, has long been a concern for citizens of the eu member states, as well as those living in eastern and central europe.
it is also an open secret that the energy sector in the european union is still managed and regulated in such a way that one member state of the european union often pursues its interests at the expense of other member states of the european union or at the expense of other member states of the european union or at the expense of other member states of the european union.
i therefore ask you, mr president, to ensure that, in the light of the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the increasing demand for energy, a single european union energy policy is drawn up, so that the preparation of this project is a priority on the agenda of both the commission and the european parliament.
i therefore invite the european commission to initiate wto reform change the rules and decision-making processes, add new areas of rules such as social and environmental aspects, and promote fair competition in trade between all wto members, both developed and developing countries.
and i would also like to say that trade cannot be considered as a stand-alone activity, separate from production, occupational safety and the environment, for very long.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy resources and gas are one of the most important economic and productive factors for economic competitiveness and human well-being.
eu member states supply energy through bilateral agreements.
these concessions are in response to the eu's growing energy dependence on russia.
is it not time to remember nuclear energy as the most environmentally friendly alternative to energy dependence on unpredictable russian actions?
however, the other major eu proposal already under discussion is the common energy policy.
russia would treat such a partner with more respect if it had an energy supply partner - the european commission, which represents the interests of all 25 member states.
i therefore invite everyone not only to talk about the development of a common energy policy, but also to take immediate action to develop a common energy policy and, in particular, a unified energy system, thus ensuring the energy security of the eu as a whole, including political security.
mr president, i would like to focus on the proposals for how to solve the energy problems.
in particular, the european union's external policy must promote the use of energy more efficiently, making this one of the key priorities of the european union's neighbourhood programme.
it might even be worthwhile to include the energy saving criterion as one of the conditions for the granting of european union aid.
if we have a successful aviation project, a great galileo programme, then we can certainly have such an innovation centre and energy programmes.
this centre could operate in countries with the highest dependence on a single source of energy.
i would like to believe that the commission will eventually do something concrete without the general phrases about a common energy strategy, and that such a centre will be the best proof of the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
russia is also increasingly spending money on open propaganda campaigns, taking advantage of the european countries' dependence on russian energy, to put pressure on energy supplies.
the eu should promote democratic processes more actively in the post-soviet space, in the eu's eastern neighbours, and should speak out against anti-western propaganda and avoid applying double standards to russia over its dependence on russian energy.
292,000 tons of chemical weapons are threatening the marine ecosystem.
in order to avoid an ecological disaster in the baltic sea, i call on the commission to undertake a thorough study of the consequences of the pipeline, which is regarded as a private commercial project, for the ecology of the baltic sea.
asian countries, such as china, are successfully conquering the eu textile, footwear and electronics markets by exploiting the imperfections of wto rules, by failing to comply with occupational safety and environmental standards.
i am referring to the absence of a common energy and industrial policy and the threat to the eu labour market and the free movement of services.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr mechtild rothe, and the committee on energy.
the initiative will encourage eu countries to use renewable energy sources more efficiently for heating and cooling, and create economic incentives to do so.
as regards energy efficiency standards for buildings, it is worth highlighting a problem common to lithuania, all the baltic states and some other new eu countries.
the renovation of such buildings to ensure sustainable space heating should be financed from the cohesion and structural funds.
in lithuania, forest management is a function of the ministry of the environment.
the eu's overall forestry strategy is important, but today i would like to talk about the eighth element of the report, namely the promotion of competitiveness, employment and profitability in the forestry sector, and specifically its point 25, which states: urges the commission and the member states to include in the eu action plan for sustainable forest management effective measures to prevent risks and to deal with serious disasters (fires, storms, insect floods and droughts) the report rightly emphasises that the european union's forest fire prevention budget is now largely financed by rural development policy and that coordination between regional and national programmes needs to be strengthened by the development of strategic community guidelines to help harmonise the preventive measures taken by the different authorities.
for the alde group why is biodiversity important?
man is part of the biodiversity, man acts on the living organisms around him and is himself affected by them.
yet, it is man who is destroying an unknown number of species every day, contributing to climate change, pollution, and the destruction of natural habitats.
in the absence of natural analogues, human activities are often disastrous for biodiversity.
i welcome the european union's ambitious target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. to achieve this objective, it is necessary to develop a system of biological monitoring indicators to help assess progress in the implementation of the commitments under the convention on biological diversity.
it is symbolic that today we are talking about the conservation of biodiversity.
the increasing promotion of consumption, which is said to boost economic growth and the well-being of everyone, is increasingly damaging the environment.
this resolution is a very important and timely document expressing the european parliament's position on the changing situation in the energy sector in the european union.
the resolution is the beginning of the consideration of the green paper on a secure, competitive and sustainable energy policy in europe.
in addition to energy efficiency, the resolution mentions the diversity of energy sources as a key factor in reducing the dependence of the member states of the european union on energy supplies from third countries.
the nuclear energy sector receives a great deal of attention, as nuclear energy is an integral part of the european union's energy system.
it is right that the initiative to develop nuclear energy should remain a prerogative of the member states.
legislation is needed to ensure that a proportion of the agricultural policy budget is used for the cultivation, production and energy use of biomass.
the principle of energy solidarity between member states is of great importance.
member states should assess the implications for other countries when planning projects in the energy sector.
the document on the security of energy supply in europe avoids mentioning europe’s preparedness for such disasters, let alone any blasts in one’s mind affecting supply.
a potential attacker when eager to use energy as a weapon may be stopped only by the knowledge that his move brings no political gains and only drawbacks for himself, while the targeted state is immediately assisted and compensated by actions of communal solidarity of the union.
as we are now debating security versus insecurity, there is also the real environmental insecurity related with building a pipeline and supplying the west in such a vulnerable way as via the bottom of the baltic sea.
who is giving guarantees to us baltic nations about both energy and biological survival?
in recent years, one of the maastricht criteria inflation has been influenced by the rise in the cost of energy an external factor independent of the economic governance of the country.
after the failed referendums on the constitutional treaty, without a common foreign and energy policy, let us at least expand the euro area and give the european union a new impetus for development.
commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that i support the agreement reached, but i would like to point out again that the member states belonging to the baltic region are today practically isolated from european energy systems.
the european commission is to draw up a priority interconnection plan in 2006 which will include specific measures for the integration of isolated energy markets.
this is the only way to ensure the security of energy supplies throughout the european union.
the objectives of the proposal for a decision under discussion today are clear: to adapt the guidelines to the enlarged european union of 25 member states, to allow for the financing of projects of common interest, to facilitate the establishment of the internal market in gas and electricity and, above all, to ensure the security of energy supply by connecting member states' networks to each other and to neighbouring countries, countries of the south-east european and mediterranean regions, ukraine and others.
instead, the council only agreed to the minor amendments contained in the parliament's resolution, and in supporting the creation of a trans-european network, the council regards the network as nothing more than a simple combination of member states' networks and the coordination of energy policy measures of the member states of the european union.
the european union's energy market is home to more than 450 million consumers.
i would point out that we need a common european energy policy, in the light of the recent crisis in ukraine and russia and the hampton court declarations.
considering that the implementation of the projects will improve the security of energy supply of the baltic states.
i welcome the debate on the guidelines for trans-european energy networks, which was welcome and necessary.
the three new eu countries, the baltic states of lithuania, latvia and estonia, remain outside the european energy system.
trans-european energy networks must be of common interest to the union as a whole, linking energy in the internal market of the member states and with their eastern and southern neighbours.
without the creation of trans-european networks as the eu's top priority for energy security and economic competitiveness, the eu will remain on the periphery of the energy market.
i call for solidarity in support of the energy integration of the baltic states into the eu.
we agree with the approach taken by the rapporteur, who has underlined the need to make progress on all issues in this wide-ranging agenda, with a clear emphasis on the objectives of poverty reduction and sustainable development.
there is no common energy policy, and the security of energy supplies, which are the basis of economic competitiveness, is threatened.
i would like to mention two important factors for increasing the eu's competitiveness: investment in knowledge and innovation and the progressive development of a common energy policy.
these are interrelated factors: innovation makes it possible to become a leader, and in the sector that determines competitiveness, energy, innovation makes it possible to create new sources of energy and to use existing ones in a rational and economical way.
the maintenance of the european parliament's seat in strasbourg is doomed to be a waste of money unless we give it up.
it is very important to find out whether there has been fraud, whether there has been a breach of law or of contract, but much more important, honourable members, is to finally decide and stop this unjustified, shameful waste of money on the european people.
mr president, with countries that have energy sources – such as russia, bolivia, etc.
if europe wants to preserve energy and political independence from russia, and not fall for deceptive words such as interdependence, the eu must plan the diversification of alternative sources rapidly and defend its various alternatives.
europe to be transferred into a department of an energy heartland – that is the kremlin’s dream.
lithuania did not use artificial measures to reduce inflation, and the slightly higher inflation rate was caused by the increase in world energy prices.
of course, the available biomass and wind and hydro power will not be enough, but energy relations with russia and the opec countries must also be maintained.
mr commissioner, thank you for your extensive reply and i agree that russia is an important energy supplier and that dialogue with russia is really needed in the energy field.
i would like to ask you, commissioner, to comment on the statement by officials that russia will divert its energy sources to asia if the member states of the european union do not meet certain conditions.
he emphasised two issues that concern energy: first, he said that gazprom has shown remarkable progress since he addressed the issue of energy efficiency.
he also said that russia could play an important role in the creation of a common european energy policy.
secondly, is the european union able to secure reciprocity and greater transparency on the part of russia’s energy sector?
thirdly, we would strongly encourage public statements and transparent commitments by member state governments to demonstrate that they are pursuing fiscal sustainability, as this would ensure public oversight.
one of the options available to member state governments to encourage private initiative is to create an environment conducive to high-quality economic growth.
the council attaches the utmost importance to the question of a coordinated and common energy policy for the european union raised by the honourable member.
i would point out that the council drew attention to this problem in the conclusions of the informal meeting in march on 'a new energy policy for europe' and adopted decisions on this subject under the heading 'energy policy for europe'.
it was noted that europe faces a number of challenges in the energy sector, namely increasing dependence on imports and limited diversification.
in its conclusions, the council therefore calls very clearly for an energy policy for europe which is geared to efficient community policy, coherence between member states and coherence of action in the various policy areas, and which satisfies the objectives of security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability in a sufficient and balanced way.
i would like to mention in this context that, particularly in the energy field, we must examine very carefully what falls within the competence of the states and what can be done at european level.
the european council also noted that security of supply should be enhanced, inter alia, by developing a common external approach, promoting energy dialogues between the european union and its main partners and diversifying in terms of external energy sources, suppliers and transport routes.
the council also called for the conclusion of negotiations on the transit protocol with a view to ratifying the energy charter treaty.
the legal framework provided by these instruments would increase the transparency and competition of energy markets, while contributing to the creation of favourable investment conditions in the countries of the parties.
the common energy concept should also allow for a genuine energy partnership with russia and ensure security and predictability for all.
it should be noted that this issue has not fallen from the sky, but that the council has long since developed an interest in an effective and coordinated energy policy.
the question has only become particularly topical now, after eight hours of the austrian presidency, at 8 o'clock in the morning on 1 january this year, when the well-known developments of the interruption of energy supplies by russia took place.
the gradual establishment of a legal framework in the energy sector, whether through the promotion of renewable energies or through the successive liberalisation packages which will ensure a full opening of the common energy market by the summer of next year, is already contributing to a coordinated and common energy policy, which the honourable member rightly calls for.
as regards the question of diversification of energy sources and transport routes, the recent adoption of the decision on transeuropean energy networks is an important step in this direction.
the conclusion of the energy community treaty with the countries of south-eastern europe, on which i shall be able to give my views in detail in the next debate at 9 p.m., also contributes to this objective by extending the internal concept of the energy market to the neighbouring countries.
in this context, the council looks forward with interest to the evaluation of the energy strategy which the commission intends to submit to the council and parliament next year, and which will deal in particular with the objectives and measures required for an external energy policy in the medium and long term.
however, it is prepared to address the issues of reciprocity and transparency in other relevant fora such as the energy dialogue between the european union and russia.
these important questions were also raised recently in a letter from commissioner piebalgs responsible for energy and the president of the energy council, minister bartenstein, to russian minister for energy christenko.
the commission is also a pioneer in carrying out trade sustainability impact assessments – sias – to assess the potential impact of trade liberalisation on all three pillars of sustainable development.
the development imposes a previously unheard-of requirement for sustainability of indicators, without taking into account the different economic and political situation than it was when the euro area was created 15 years ago.
i would like to see my country, lithuania, acceding not only to the eurozone, but also to the common european area of energy security.
the president, ladies and gentlemen, we started discussing the eu's common energy policy at the beginning of this year, following the energy conflict between ukraine and russia.
the three main pillars of future policy are the single energy market, the diversification of energy sources and climate change policy.
the single energy market will ensure security of energy supply, competitive prices and affordability for consumers.
in order to create a single market, the european commission's group of european electricity and gas regulators decided to develop four regional energy market projects: north east, north, south and south east.
i am personally pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) has found a compromise and tabled the amendments i would like to see adopted.
the second aspect i would like to mention is the dialogue with russia on energy.
unfortunately, the sochi summit, which devoted considerable time to energy, failed to achieve a breakthrough, and russian representatives continue to insist that they are acting on the principles of a market economy.
the eu's proposals to russia to ratify the energy charter treaty, proposals on transparency, the participation of eu companies in the board of russian energy companies remain a problem that we have to find a solution to.
one of the issues we talked about was exactly that: china’s activities, in africa in particular but also in other developing countries, especially in the fields of energy and trade.
the 'polluter pays' principle must be respected in aviation climate change policy.
it is regrettable that air transport does not cover the external costs of its climate impact.
it would be logical to include aviation in the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme.
the development of rail and bus transport could reduce both the pressure on congested airports and pollution from aviation.
by pooling resources and ensuring a competitive environment, the eu is the best place to contribute to the enhancement of europe's research potential, as it is not only inefficient but often too costly for member states to implement such programmes on their own.
of course, as i said before we want to further consolidate the energy relationship, on the basis of the most important principles, which are reciprocity, fairness and equality.
there are some signs that russia is increasing the pressure in regard to energy policy.
would it be possible during the g8 meeting in st petersburg to pay attention to the question of energy policy?
the commission's proposals for cooperation in the transport and disposal of nuclear waste or spent fuel reflect the eu's spirit of solidarity and forward-looking approach.
on the other hand, there is no doubt that the control and prior authorisation system for shipments of radioactive waste must be tightened.
at present, the waste is temporarily buried in special sites.
i would also stress the need to promote research into the decontamination of nuclear waste.
russia can use its advantageous position in the global energy market to spend more money on propaganda campaigns.
we must strive, in the context of the eu-china strategic partnership launched in 2003, to ensure that china too creates a climate conducive to foreign trade, improves the legal protection of foreign investments and opens up markets to eu goods and investments.
the concept of public service is not defined and therefore the concept of 'public service obligations' is not used in the book, but is used to cover air, rail, road transport, energy, which are also classified as services of general economic interest.
in our plans for the post-2012 period we consider it very important to bring on board all the big emitters of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
you are quite correct that china is one of the big emitters, but you forget that the biggest emitter is the united states, which emits about 25% of the greenhouse gases in the world.
china comes second, with about 14%, together with the european union, but in order to have the equilibrium which is needed regarding the contribution by each country to the battle against climate change, we have to take into account what the united nations climate change conference states, i.e.
that each country should contribute in a common but differentiated way, which means that countries like china, india and other fast-developing countries, which have contributed to a smaller degree historically to the creation of the greenhouse phenomenon and have only a fraction of the per capita income of the developed countries, have to contribute in a different way according to their capabilities and their possibilities, without hindering their economic development and without creating unfair competition with other countries.
as regards long-term measures, it is essential to invest sufficiently in the research framework programme in the fisheries sector, in particular with a view to enhancing energy efficiency.
we keep talking about a single european energy strategy, but we turn a blind eye to the fact that russia will not allow this and already has its trojan horse in the middle of europe.
europe, according to russian politicians, may throw away its energy charter along with the human rights charter.
market protection measures are necessary as long as asian countries are subsidising energy, applying preferential taxes, polluting the environment.
after a long time the eu was able to speak with one voice and what is especially important is that the eu was united in speaking about eu energy policy.
as the need for an increased energy supply and increased energy security are of common interest to the union, i would like to stress that some projects in the baltic sea region ignore the interests of a number of member states in terms of security of energy supply, particularly the north european gas pipeline project, which in 2000 was granted trans-european energy network status.
the commission considers that achieving a high degree of sustainable convergence, in accordance with the treaty, is a necessary condition for the adoption of the euro to be a success, both for the current and future members of the area.
i am glad that europe has finally joined forces and shown solidarity and solidarity with russia in the energy and democracy dialogue.
the words that energy is an integral part of foreign policy have become flesh.
as regards energy security and transparency, the issue of the oil pipeline 'družba' was mentioned as more of a political than a technical accident when russia cut off oil supplies to the pipeline.
ladies and gentlemen, it is a great achievement that europe has made clear at the meeting with russia that the rules must be followed when dealing with energy problems.
barroso and a. merkel offers hope for a united europe with a common energy policy and a common future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recent developments in the geographical and political environment of moldova have affected the basic settlement of the transnistrian conflict.
it will also receive a grant under the macro-financial assistance programme to help it address the shocks caused by increased energy prices and the russian ban on moldovan wines.
for the alde group this year, the european union reviewed the european union's sustainable development strategy adopted in 2001, supplemented by the external dimension in barcelona in 2002. the european union's policy of development cooperation includes the fight against poverty and the gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy.
we want economic growth in the developing world, we want to protect the environment, we want to reduce the greenhouse effect, and what do we do?
toxic pollution in côte d'ivoire has caused 85,000 illnesses and eight deaths.
many african countries do not have environmental protection legislation on hazardous waste.
used computers are being hoarded in nigeria, radioactive waste is being buried in somalia, chlorine is being dumped in cameroon.
despite the fact that the eu has adopted regulations banning waste exports in 1994 and 1997. in 2002, the european parliament adopted the directive 'environmental protection: combating crime, criminal offences and penalties' at its first reading.
without serious measures, the eu's development cooperation policy to support developing countries in their sustainable development will be difficult to implement.
however, their sustainability, particularly in the social sectors, is a source of concern because of the recurring costs they entail.
it is absolutely essential that we create a regulatory environment and a framework that works well, is sensible and is cost-effective in practice.
on monday you discussed the eu marine strategy and the marine environment directive, which are part of the eu's marine policy currently being prepared.
a broad, horizontal cooperation is therefore needed both within the union and between the eu and russia and other partners in areas such as the environment, energy, transport, education, justice and home affairs and health.
it covers the four common eu-russia regions' policy sectors, as well as environmental, social and health issues.
the ecological situation in the baltic sea is a cause for concern and requires urgent action in accordance with the principles of sustainable development.
the european union, individual countries and international financial institutions have joined forces in the northern dimension environmental partnership.
several governments, organisations, in particular the baltic sea conservation commission helcom, and other actors are working to save the marine environment of the baltic sea.
the northern dimension environmental partnership projects are primarily targeted at north-west russia, but their impact benefits all countries in the region.
the objective is to achieve 'good environmental status' by 2021. this is a challenging objective and efforts to achieve it must be started immediately.
the northern dimension also includes a social and health partnership aimed at combating communicable diseases and diseases of the environment and reducing social problems.
the european commission is currently preparing a new comprehensive european maritime policy, which takes into account the economic, political and environmental values of europe's seas and coastal regions.
the numerous challenges facing the baltic sea region, such as marine protection, maritime safety, sustainable fisheries and coastal use and the development of the maritime sector in the region, all require effective horizontal cooperation.
the northern dimension will also have its own priorities: health and social wellbeing and the protection of indigenous peoples in the high north, as well as particular emphasis on the environment and culture.
the baltic sea is now a northern dimension priority because we are concerned about its fragile environment and the increasing traffic through its waters, as is correctly highlighted in the report.
particular attention is paid to environmental, economic and transport issues.
the whole triad is highly dependent on energy and energy security, which is vulnerable to over-optimism and over-ambition on the part of any one country.
the countries of the region need a common energy market.
the focus will be on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
the debate and concrete steps on nuclear energy are inevitable.
it is necessary to establish and extend coastal protection zones and to apply stricter environmental standards than those provided for in eu directives.
because it is precisely deeper integration of this region that would not only make the eu as a whole more dynamic and competitive, but also help to solve other eu problems, such as energy security, a common energy policy, better relations with russia.
on the eastern shores of the sea live ancient peoples who would not want to flee from ecological disasters if they were caused by the new savage post-soviet capitalism.
this means that we are not only responsible for the economic discriminatory effects, but also for the political disintegration of europe and for all the ecological consequences of possible demographic disasters.
a strategic partner of supposedly shared values has already been disqualified as a pragmatic partner, and it is only a matter of time before iran, with its energy resources, is also recognised as a pragmatic partner of europe.
we are silent and hope to get the energy charter at that price, even though russia has said many times that it will rewrite the document itself and force europe to land.
we raised the energy problem raised by the poles, we talked only about meat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security and the common energy policy remain at the top of the european union's agenda.
germany and russia are bilaterally building a gas pipeline across the baltic sea that is not safe from an ecological point of view, given the seabed legacy of the second world war, which threatens to have dire consequences for the baltic states.
i call on all member states, after assessing developments in the energy market, to support the application of article 37 of the treaty on the accession of lithuania to the eu, by considering the possibility of extending the operation of the ignalina nuclear power plant.
thematic programmes include programmes such as investing in people, the environment and the management of sustainable natural resources, including energy, non-state actors and local authorities in the development process, food security and migration, and asylum.
it should be noted that last week an electricity cable link was opened between estonia and finland, linking the baltic and nordic electricity grids and thus also contributing to energy security in lithuania.
mr minister, article 4 of the accession protocol provides for a general safeguard clause until 1 december 2012. article 37 (1) of the treaty of accession provides for safeguard measures in the event of energy difficulties for a period of three years from the date of accession.
with the reliability of nuclear power plants increasing every year and science and technology reaching new levels, is it not time for the european union to reconsider this issue and express a more positive attitude towards nuclear energy?
mr president, this question is very much relevant to the general european energy debate.
as the finnish presidency, and the council, has adopted the widely accepted view that decision-making on energy production methods is and will remain a matter for member states.
however, it is very important for the european energy market and for european energy security that we are able to create and strengthen an infrastructure which actually connects the european energy networks, and this work is still in its infancy.
mr president, the accession treaties include provisions for certain nuclear power plants and, moreover, at eu level, special attention is paid to the safety of energy production methods.
i should like to ask a question concerning question 6.
president-in- office, my question is about lithuanian energy prospects.
those countries will not be able to do this before 2015. according to our previous agreements we have to close one of our blocks in 2009, and lithuania will suffer from energy shortages.
the possibility of registering ships in countries where it is cheap and where compliance with technical safety and environmental standards is not required.
toxic pollution in côte d'ivoire is one example.
my country, lithuania, imports oil using a terminal in the baltic sea, so we are concerned about both the safety of ships and the environment.