from the outside, europe is seen as the political entity in the world where public freedoms, social rights and environmental protection are most fully realized.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs rothe for her work and her very strong commitment to renewable energy.
my services have already started to prepare an impact assessment on an action in favour of heating and cooling from renewable energy sources.
the international energy situation, our strong dependency on imports and the fight against climate change remind us of the urgent need to address the issues related to renewable energies.
as you know, the commission intends to adopt a green paper on a secure, sustainable and competitive energy policy on 8 march.
the green paper will be adopted on 8 march by the whole college, and there will be no backtracking from energy efficiency and from renewable energies.
it will also show that all these measures are necessary to build security of supply, to fight climate change and to achieve environmental objectives, as well as to increase competitiveness.
since 1997, the european union has been working towards the objective of 12% of renewable energy balance by 2010 but, to date, we have achieved only half of that goal.
while we now have legislation on the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy and on the promotion of biofuels, the production of heating and cooling from renewable energy – the third pillar of the renewable energy portfolio – lacks a specific strategy.
without a vigorous development of renewable energy in the sector of heating and cooling, the overall objective of 12% renewable energy by 2010 will not be achieved.
promoting heating and cooling from renewable energy will contribute to a number of important objectives: it will reduce our external energy dependency, it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and it will create a european industry and promote local employment.
i agree that we should take practical steps to promote heating and cooling from renewable energy more vigorously.
mrs rothe’s report contributes to the objectives of the european energy policy, and i very much welcome it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in energy, europe must join forces with the other major consumers, the united states, japan, china and india, to counter the cartels and oligopolies that dominate the oil and gas sectors.
the liberalisation of the us energy market was far from successful.
– mr president, i fully understand the anger of italy and spain at what i would call german-french energy imperialism in europe.
european energy champions would squeeze out even more money from our major industry and consumers, and from us as citizens, and pass it on to the shareholders.
i voted against the resolution on the curitiba conference on biodiversity.
parliament is making a grave mistake in mixing up biodiversity and genetic engineering.
as a matter of fact, the austrian presidency was exactly eight hours old when the point was driven home to us that energy is a european problem, a problem for all of us, because at 8 a.m. on the morning of 1 january 2006, the gas conflict between russia, ukraine and moldova actually began.
it is quite clear that for europe, energy supply is a question of the highest importance.
we also convened an additional extraordinary council meeting of energy ministers, to which you have alluded, in order to prepare for the european council meeting in the best way possible.
that meeting of energy ministers came up with very useful and helpful suggestions which will be discussed tomorrow and the day after.
it also became evident that, in connection with the gas dispute between russia, ukraine and moldova, the question of energy supply is not only a question that we can discuss among ourselves.
i will just mention very briefly the international energy agency, the international energy forums and euromed, which plays an important role.
there are other important international agreements, such as for example the energy agreement with south-east europe.
mr president, the previous debate on the commission’s work programme focused a lot on energy.
in a way, the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy has given the answers as to how we should proceed in addressing the challenges set out in your question.
we should also realise that this is a global challenge: the tightness of supply and demand, climate change, import dependency and investment needs in the energy sector are all global challenges.
the response from the european union is a common energy policy.
it is clear that the main added value of this green paper lies in this common approach where we stress that security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability cannot be separated in our energy policy.
it means that in the area of energy policy we should focus on a set of measures in specific areas.
firstly, it is important for security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness to provide a really competitive, open, transparent eu internal market.
we provide for some actions that really provide for not only stronger competition but also cross-border trade: cross-border energy transactions.
solidarity means, firstly, being ready for extreme situations; secondly, it involves the solidarity mechanism and, thirdly, it involves a lot of information on what is happening on the energy markets.
then there is the issue of the energy mix.
that means that we should take action taking into account our neighbours’ energy policies and try to boost the best possible actions.
a strategic eu energy review, which would allow us to revisit these issues continually, is necessary to provide the best approach in terms of each state’s energy mix.
energy efficiency and renewable energy development will definitely be on the rise in deciding an energy mix.
however, at the same time, i also believe that the nuclear energy that is now in the energy mix will be used in many member states.
it is important, however, to ensure that this energy is used in a safe and sustainable way.
i also believe in the diversity that could bring us new technologies and in clean coal, carbon sequestration and so on.
we now have a good example with the shell and statoil project involving carbon sequestration and post-combustion.
this is not a demonstration project: for the first time, a real industrial project involving 860 megawatts is bringing new possibilities for a diversification in the energy mix that corresponds to the objectives of our energy policy.
some people have indicated that there is not enough focus on energy efficiency.
parliament has debated the green paper on energy efficiency.
we will propose a very ambitious european action plan on energy efficiency, which will place a lot of emphasis on transport.
however, the focus on energy efficiency will be continued in all member states through their national action plans and this is extremely important.
i believe that the european strategic energy technology plan really could make a difference.
the energy community should be expanded.
i believe that the momentum created by the green paper for establishing a european common policy in energy will be continued.
i am very grateful for the debate and i look forward to working with this house towards establishing a european energy policy that corresponds to the basic needs of our citizens.
mr president, we live in an increasingly energy-hungry world.
the big consumers, the americans and the europeans, cannot deny the chinese, the indians and others the right to aspire to our standard of living, to consume more energy.
in such a context, energy savings and improved energy efficiency are the top priority.
the international energy agency has calculated that if computer manufacturers were required to reduce standby power to one watt instead of the current ten watts, they could save the equivalent of twenty 1,000-megawatt power plants.
the use of renewable energy sources must be increased: brazil produces 700 million litres of ethanol from the sugar industry, mauritius saves 20 000 tonnes of oil by burning fibre waste in its thermal power stations, sweden will require all service stations to offer biofuels and fiji is running diesel engines based on copra oil.
however, renewable energy cannot fully replace conventional sources of energy.
even wind energy, for which europe has a significant offshore potential, requires substantial investments in network security.
the world cannot give up coal and nuclear energy any time soon.
these choices are the responsibility of the states, which must decide freely on their energy mix.
europe will need to invest more in research on energy efficiency, renewables, carbon sequestration, clean coal, nuclear safety and fusion.
the union will have to put in place a more united energy policy.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the spring council must decide: europe without a common energy policy will be nothing but a soft power.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not tomorrow, the heads of state and government will meet for an energy summit.
is this going to be about energy?
transport policy must be central to energy policy.
the most important thing we have to contribute with our policies is long-term objectives, renewable energy, efficiency, co2 targets - otherwise there is no investment security.
it puts the energy that most divides citizens across europe at the centre of the debate!
mr president, this is an oral amendment to amend recital c. it's about replacing the terms, which i'll read in english because i only have this version: ... environmental protection by environmental sustainability ... i believe those are the words of the law.
the text would therefore read as follows:... whereas there are three main objectives for eu energy policy: security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability.
europe needs a new energy and transport policy.
mr schüssel, it is only now that we will see whether the decision to increase energy efficiency by 20% and to use 15% of renewable energy sources is a real breakthrough.
i believe that the most important thing is that we need a different transport and energy culture.
firstly, in the field of energy research: how do you intend to explain to the austrian citizens and to austrian smes that we will spend or intend to spend five times as much money on nuclear energy as on renewable energy in the framework programme for research?
and how do you intend to conduct a nuclear debate in austria and in europe when mr barroso has deleted the word 'risk' from the green paper on nuclear energy?
the international atomic energy agency in vienna spoke about 4000 deaths up to the beginning of last week, and had to revise this figure upwards under pressure from new independent studies, one of these commissioned by our colleague mrs harms.
the international atomic energy agency, a un pro-nuclear biased agency, must no longer be allowed to interfere and suppress studies from the world health organisation on the health impact of radiation.
we therefore have to end the 1959 agreement between the international atomic energy agency and the world health organisation as provide in article 12 of that agreement.
the same is true for euratom – and i thank mr rübig of the ppe-de group who, in the committee on industry, research and energy, has taken the initiative of raising the issue of putting an end to euratom.
today 450 nuclear reactors produce 2.5% of world energy and 6% of european energy demands.
if nuclear energy is the answer to security supply and to climate change, that percentage would need to rise from 2.5 to 30, 40, 50 or 60% of the mix.
we need to understand the context in which they operate and whether there are useful improvements that can be made to help them to operate in the european environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
let us take the opportunity to relaunch combined heat and power – that should be our answer to energy security.
as long as there are more people in the commission working for euratom and on nuclear power then on energy efficiency, then there will be more talk than action.
you promised us more staff to work on energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is about a new culture, and we must therefore get national, regional and local governments on board, as well as industry, ngos and the citizens.
mr president, the european union and the world need safe and sustainable energy flows at affordable prices.
the interesting document he sent to the european council is marked by some stunning silences: while it does mention the need for an energy policy for europe and an action plan with priorities, mr solana carefully avoids mentioning concepts such as the 'common energy market' and the 'single market'.
in short, the europe of the necessary energy solidarity is still in limbo.
the fact is that the energy question will become a central element of all european policies.
energy will dictate our policy on international relations.
it will determine the economic, environmental and social policies of our countries.
energy will increasingly influence all eu policies, from agriculture to structural policies, to housing, transport and research.
despite this, europe's response to the various energy challenges remains weak, without energy.
mr solana tells us that the best way to guarantee a secure supply of energy at affordable prices is through the proper functioning of world markets.
europe must invest in energy efficiency, in new technologies, in renewable energy.
everyone knows that europe's energy future will not be 100% nuclear or 100% renewable.
we need an energy mix that is as smart as possible, taking into account the geographical and climatic differences between the countries, their resources in primary energy, biomass and so on.
of course, in the long run, it's not sustainable.
we are making very bureaucratic regulations behind our backs, and i would therefore ask that they be avoided until the debates here on the practices... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i should like to congratulate our rapporteur on the key points he has made and on the fact that he has spoken in his presentation about improving the climate.
i believe that the climate of creativity goes even beyond the climate of innovation.
i want to say something fundamental about the events of the last few weeks: europe in general and we in the european parliament in particular should not, in a difficult period like this, waste our energies on undertakings which are ultimately rooted in the need of some to distance themselves from the united states.
what is the point of having even a prime minister of a small country give a big report on the cooperation between the european parliament and the council of europe if, at the first opportunity, we waste our time in crafting a resolution whose only purpose is apparently to pour out a visceral anti-americanism?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
it would mean that the tax on a car with emission levels of 200 g/km could only be eur 200 and that on a car of 160 g/km, eur 160. as a result, the desired outcome – namely to effect a major shift in what the consumer decides when he buys a car – would not be achieved, since, if there is only a difference of eur 80 between a car with 120 g/km emission and a car with 200 g/km emissions, then the market will remain unaffected.
mr president, climate change is the most important environmental problem facing our planet.
for this reason, the kyoto protocol, which provides for a reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by 5.2% by developed countries, was signed and ratified under the united nations international convention on climate change, and the european union undertook to reduce emissions by 8% compared with 1990 levels.
many of these measures are provided for in the first and second european climate change programmes.
the main measure we have envisaged, which has been operational since 1 january 2005, is the community scheme for the trading of greenhouse gases, in particular carbon dioxide.
with this system we envisage the most cost-effective way of achieving medium and long-term reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
the scheme covers about 50% of the carbon dioxide emissions in the european union.
the success of the community trading system is of great importance because it can be the basis and we intend to use it as the nucleus for the creation of an international trading system for greenhouse gases.
this is an effective way of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular of helping to make the developed countries, such as the united states, the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases (about a quarter of all carbon dioxide emissions come from the united states), contribute to this reduction, and of course of finding ways that are acceptable to the rapidly developing countries, which are also emitting more and more greenhouse gases.
you will all have heard in the newspapers about the recent initiative in california to introduce a system similar to the european one for the trading of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from 2009. the same is true, but specifically only for companies that produce electricity, in seven northeastern states of the united states, and it seems that there is already some pressure from below on the federal government to start discussing the issue of a global greenhouse gas trading system.
i must stress that there is no doubt about the european commission's determination to maintain and improve this system in order to achieve the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions needed to stabilise the concentrations of these gases in the atmosphere.
last spring, the companies covered by the community scheme reported, as required, their carbon dioxide emissions, which were verified by independent auditors, and for the first time we have a consistent and verified list of actual carbon dioxide emissions in the european union.
the actual emissions were lower than many expected.
secondly, market-based mechanisms are working and the community's emissions trading system already seems to be bearing fruit.
third, and perhaps most importantly, member states can - and should - expect that the sectors covered by this scheme will contribute much more to reducing emissions, especially given that the european union as a whole is not yet on track to meet its commitments under the kyoto protocol.
i hope that this will not be necessary and that the member states will send the plans for the allocation of permitted greenhouse gas emission allowances within the next few days, within the next month.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council shares the commission's view that the european union's emissions trading system is one of the cornerstones of the eu's climate policy.
it is through this instrument that the european union has been able to demonstrate its leadership in responding to the challenge of climate change.
carbon pricing is an essential element in our efforts to stimulate the development and deployment of environmentally friendly technology.
we therefore need to carefully assess how the system could be further improved to meet its stated objective of reducing greenhouse gases in a cost-effective way.
this is clearly stated in the emissions trading directive adopted by the council and the european parliament three years ago.
in the spring of this year we gained a lot of valuable experience from reporting 2005 emissions data.
in parallel with the allocation plan process, the review of the emissions trading directive is already under way under the finnish presidency.
it is of particular importance that the scheme provides a clear signal to operators that it is appropriate to invest in low-carbon, environmentally friendly technologies.
there is no price incentive at all to switch from coal to gas, which was the cheapest option available in europe to cut down co2 emissions.
if we are to make progress in the areas of resource conservation, energy policy, air quality, etc., it is essential that there be a closer link between the policies that are being made in the big cities and those at european level.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i voted for the ransdorf report because it highlights the importance of nanoscience and nanotechnology in fields as diverse as medicine, surgery, energy, electronics, metallurgy and so on.
mr president, firstly i would like to pay tribute to prime ministers blair and balkenende, because they are taking europe forward on climate change, and explicitly in this letter they did not mention nuclear.
nuclear is only 6% of our energy and it will divide europe more than it will bring us together to speak with one voice.
mr barroso, i think you now have the historic responsibility to come up with a comprehensive energy review in january.
in this energy review we need a co2 target for europe for 2020. if we do not have a co2 target for europe we will not have investment security for our industry; and what is better regulation about, if it is not about bringing energy and climate policy together in the document you bring forward?
the second priority of this energy review must be putting an end to the oligopolistic structure in our energy and transport sectors.
such a strategy is the ground for a foreign energy policy and this is a peace project for the world, because these technologies will diminish pressure on resources and it is a business opportunity for europe.
moreover, if the leaders honour their own signatures, we might be able to conclude a new treaty for an energy europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am glad that mr reul, who attacked wind energy on kulturradio deutschland two or three days after the power cut, in the same way as mr glos and e.on, now declares ten days after the cut that he has nothing against wind energy.
it has now become clear that wind energy in germany did not contribute to the disaster at all, because it was a normal windy day.
this means that where a good interface can be defined between the grid operators, the regulators and the wind energy operators, wind energy has even had positive effects on the grid.
the first is that we need to prepare the grids for long-term energy investment.
and this will not only be true for wind power, but also for condensing plants, which will have no cooling at all inland because of climate warming and warming rivers.
so we need to invest much more in decentralised energy supply - biomass, biogas, combined heat and power and also gas-fired power stations that can be located close to the consumption centres - whether in industry or in cities - so that they can absorb some of this migration and so that these decentralised investments also give us more space in the grid for trade.
i would like to thank mrs hennicot-schoepges and the committee on industry, research and energy, and mr bradbourne and the committee on transport and tourism, and the committee on legal affairs, for their support for the commission's proposal on this great european project, sesar.
and i would add that our whole environmental policy will find further support here because sesars are planes that can take off on time, avoid turning in the sky and, therefore, save energy and avoid unnecessary carbon emissions.
that is why sesar is in every respect a project of the utmost importance for the safety of passengers, for energy savings and for the quality of the environment.
the same is true of the environment.
the commission estimates the reduction in greenhouse gases at 4 to 6% per flight.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
you have understood climate change and the depletion of energy resources.
the only way out will be to invest massively and rapidly in energy-intelligent use and in renewable energy sources and materials.
we have brokered a deal to get at least 50% of the money for non-nuclear research to renewables and end-use energy efficiency.
firstly, energy efficiency has to be a horizontal priority all over our research – it is about material research and ict, which has to involve the energy and resource dimension.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
setting precise rules in a technological environment, which is by its nature highly mobile, is not easy.
the union urgently needs its own resources to meet our economic, social and environmental challenges.
– i wish to begin by thanking mrs morgan and mrs ek for a political line that combines environment with competition.