the united nations report on reform recognises climate change as one of the most significant threats to global security.
the kyoto protocol has promoted the use of renewable energy sources, but to continue this positive development, the european union should take greater initiative to further develop these sources both at home and elsewhere in the world.
the entry into force of the kyoto protocol following its ratification by the russian federation is a positive development, but the involvement of the united states, which is responsible for one quarter of emissions, is also needed to mitigate climate change.
i think the united states should also focus more on energy efficiency and conservation measures at the same time.
more highly developed countries may meet the kyoto protocol targets for reasons unrelated to climate policy.
however, the rapid development of china and india, for example, where one third of the world's population lives and where it is essential to strike a balance between development needs and environmental protection, should also be taken into account.
by cutting off gas supplies in the middle of winter, russia reminded not only ukraine but also the world's energy markets that the power is now in the hands of the energy suppliers.
energy suppliers will have to deal with this for an unpredictable period of time.
i would like to commend commissioner piebalgs for using the european union's influence during the russian/ukrainian gas crisis to a sufficient extent to prevent an energy crisis in europe.
i believe that what is happening gives the commission specific powers to implement the laws adopted, the decisions on the acquisition of alternative energy efficiency resources and the creation of a truly liberal energy market, to ensure the integration of energy networks in europe.
and of course, this is what almost all the speakers are saying today: the european union's common market needs a real common energy policy that would serve the long-term political stability not only of europe but also of the global energy market.
strategic decisions in the field of energy security are also a must if business research and infrastructure development activities are to be placed on the strategic floor today.
it should be noted that russia currently has no good relations with any of its neighbors, as they are formed not on the basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit, but by imposing economic or energy sanctions by refusing to sign the prepared border agreements.
secondly, the gas supply crises in ukraine, moldova and georgia served as a wake-up call to europe that these supplies are insecure, that diversification of supplies is needed, and that coordination between the european union's energy and security policies and those of the member states is needed.
security would only be enhanced if the reports of mr chirac, mr solana or mrs merkel or the decisions taken in the field of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism or energy were predictable and would not surprise the european parliament by not being prepared.
this increase has been achieved mainly through the free movement of goods and liberalisation in the telecommunications and energy sectors.
not only the international atomic energy agency, but all five permanent members of the un security council have unanimously recognized that iran's nuclear program is not peaceful.
the decision of the european commission to award a contract worth two million euros to a german-russian consortium to broadcast in belarus, knowing that a russian tv station already has generous contracts with the belarusian authorities and that the broadcasts are in russian, is in my opinion an unacceptable waste of money.
a lot of energy is spent on maintaining the status quo and avoiding change and reform, but it is precisely reforms in the european union's internal market and the deepening of its integration that can provide the key to creating a stimulating environment for the implementation of the lisbon strategy.
it is understandable that, for example, the urgency of heating homes is much greater in countries with a warmer climate, such as estonia and latvia, than in southern countries, such as cyprus and malta.
it is very positive that all the energy security issues of interest were addressed during the summit.
i hope that the proposals we have drawn up in the framework strategy for providing the equal and effective participation of all persons in the economic, social and political life of europe will become the key factor to overcoming the recent negative tendencies which are undermining the prospects for the sustainable development of europe in the 21st century.
the ethnic, social and linguistic diversity of european society should be perceived not only as a challenge for sustainable development but also as a source of creative potential and for the dynamic stability of modern europe.
but can a small and medium-sized eu member state actually implement its tax policy on passenger cars with a specific environmental or energy efficiency objective?
i am therefore convinced that the reduction of co2 emissions or other environmental objectives in this area can be achieved at the level of the european union rather than at the level of individual member states.
the european union should therefore call on china and taiwan to maintain a climate of mutual trust, using peaceful means to build relations that contribute to stability in the region as a whole.
the european qualifications framework will be an important step in this direction, in order to create the preconditions for the creation of a single labour market and a single training environment.
however, on the other hand, i might also like to ask the kind of provocative questions that i was asked a few days ago when i read mr baradei, the head of the atomic energy agency, or our watchdog, in the mass media.
if we can speak with one voice on energy, it's a step towards a unified voice on foreign policy.
russia is very clever in exploiting our fears when it comes to energy issues with the european union, but we forget that russia has an interest in our country: it has an interest in selling energy, in facilitating the visa regime, in taking advantage of all that european civilization, so to speak, has to offer.
the baltic states' centre for technology and environmental protection is the most appropriate place for this.
the seriousness of the presidency's approach to energy security was demonstrated by the president of russia, who was the guest of honour at the event.
the idea is welcome in any case, as it gave the heads of state the opportunity to hear not only the russian leader's views on the prospects for ratification of the energy charter and the risks to european investment in the energy sector in russia, but also russia's pressure policy against georgia and its understanding of human rights.
i hope that this meeting has been a sign of a growing awareness among the countries of the european union that the most effective way to make russia a willing partner for europe is to confront it with a single energy cartel.
russia's economy today and in the future is built on the export of energy resources.
secondly, i think that, thanks to mr vanhanen's determination and initiative, we have also been able to talk about energy issues in a united way.
firstly, i believe that the terms of the energy charter should be incorporated in the new eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement.
secondly, much more work needs to be done on alternative energy sources.
thirdly, we must work on energy-saving programmes.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank you all for your ongoing cooperation and for the valuable suggestions you have made to jointly improve the commission's proposal for a thematic strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment.
i very much hope that this report will make a real difference in preserving and improving the marine environment.
i was pleased to see that the report also addressed such a sensitive issue as the environmental problems of the baltic sea.
in the baltic sea, also known as the european inland lake, it is particularly important to preserve the balance of the ecosystem without allowing it to be further threatened, especially in view of the specific characteristics of groundwater recycling.
i believe it is important that the people of europe, especially those whose territories border the sea, can see for themselves the positive changes that will result from the improvement of water quality and cleanliness, the restoration of marine biodiversity and, finally, the development of a well-thought-out, balanced and sustainable management and development of the marine region following the adoption of this and similar legislative acts.
the thematic strategy is decided on under the sixth environmental action programme.
great things have already been achieved with the various policies legislation, programmes, action plans and various international conventions but still the state of the marine environment has been deteriorating at an alarming pace.
building on the rapporteur's approach, we have a solid chance to make this a real environmental pillar for marine policy as planned.
the time limits and schedules for achieving good environmental status have been tightened up, from 2021 to 2017. general definitions of measures which member states are to take in order to achieve good environmental status are added and a detailed list of ges criteria is provided.
the countries of the region can reduce their energy dependence on russia by establishing a common energy market, promoting the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency projects.
it is essential to involve all interested member states of the european union in the development of new energy projects and to carry out an international environmental impact assessment so that we do not again find ourselves in the situation that the potential development of the northern european gas pipeline is currently in.
colleagues, the conclusion of a new partnership agreement with russia is an important step in our cooperation, which will also help to solve the energy issue.
europe's place in the global economic competition will undoubtedly be determined by its success in innovation, its ability to apply it and its ability to revitalize the business environment, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprise sector.