a region with highly visible biological and environmental diversity with a diversity that leaves a large socio-economic impact on the inhabitants of the region.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
it is a matter of great concern to us that we are presenting this resolution because we know that the lack of this initiative by the council has put us in a position which is very far from our goal of sustainable development.
this would be an indispensable instrument because it would eliminate much red tape that has hitherto hindered the flow of this aid and undermined its purpose, in addition to increasing waste.
i believe that prevention is better than cure, so we must focus our energy on being prepared for any eventuality.
i would like both the commission and the council to look at a study carried out by the university of manchester entitled 'sustainable impact assessment study of the euromed free-trade area'.
among the negative effects, it mentions the possibility that in these countries there could be an increase in unemployment, a decrease in the level of wages, as well as a severe impact on resources such as water and biodiversity and other environmental impact.
for example, the european union's policy towards these countries must balance trade with more intensive cooperation in the financial, social and educational fields, and also in the environmental field.
apart from some recent initiatives, i feel that the union has not dealt with this tragic reality with the urgency, energy and concreteness that it deserves.
while we want to give prisoners the dignity they deserve, we cannot continue to waste our efforts and resources.
(applause)
mr president, discussions on state aid and its role in today’s economic activity have been going on for ages and must continue, not least now when our major economic competitors are stepping up their aid for innovation and research and development to create a more competitive environment.
we are coping excellently in this respect, because energy efficiency is definitely the first priority in the whole energy society in the european union and each year we are improving, but we should like to improve even more.
as far as energy efficiency is concerned, there have been changes to the structure of dg-tren.
we have a unit for energy efficiency and another for renewable energies.
energy savings imply a reduction of energy; energy efficiency means doing more with less.
after the world was awakened by the enormous rise in the cost of oil which ultimately translated into rises in our petrol and diesel costs and unbearable surcharges in our electricity bills – as happened in my own country malta – we have all started to focus on the energy savings – alternative energies such as wind farms at sea, as is being proposed in malta – and energy efficiency.
energy efficiency can be addressed to numerous aspects of our everyday life.
are becoming more efficient; transport – research and development have made cars more efficient in energy consumption.
but unfortunately, the more energy-efficient cars are, the more expensive they usually become.
how are you going to encourage consumers to make capital investments, to change or purchase more energy-efficient building materials, cars or appliances?
finally, we also need to look at our regulatory environment, the way it is affecting the competitiveness of our ports in relation to cruise liners and the business that they bring with them.
i believe that groundwater should be seen and treated as an independent ecosystem and therefore we should gear up to maintain groundwater in the most natural state possible so as to guarantee the good quality of the supply of water throughout europe, and furthermore to minimise treatment of water which is supplied direct from source.
we must address the question of pollution in our groundwater and the concepts employed should be well defined.
whoever tried to pretend that because east timor was internationally recognised it was ready with its structures, education, environment, things relating to democracy, human rights, the court, we claimed that these structures were there and now that we have recognised its independence then this country could without the necessary help advance in democratic development and in development relating to human rights, i think we were deceiving ourselves.
the new environment shaping the financial services sector will press us as legislators with crucial questions, including on supervision.
as we all know, in today’s environment there is an intertwining of different sectors, be they manufacturing, services or trade.
however, we must also take decisions that are difficult: decisions to change and adapt to the new realities of the industrial environment.
the european commission's proposal to abolish the car registration tax and replace it with an environmental charging system is in the right direction.
carbon dioxide emissions by cars are more likely to be less voluminous in new cars.
car makers are now conscious of the need to reduce emissions and use the latest technologies.
the fee for the annual car licence should be based on the amount of carbon dioxide emissions.
the problem of carbon dioxide emissions is especially acute in commercial and public transport vehicles.
we are in a position where it is not that european standards are not being respected, but that the people are not being given all the information they have a right to in order to protect their health and the environment.
a concrete example of this was, as it was only after my intervention, that the authorities publicly admitted that there were violations of european directives on emissions in our country's power-stations.
they are even in a situation where the pollution measuring devices of the marsa and delimara power-stations have not been working for months after being said to have been struck by lightning.
at the same time all forms of spending were critically examined in order to minimise waste and bad practices.