i am glad that the commissioner also feels that this round should be a development round and i would like to congratulate him on his energy and commitment.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat climate change.
the resolution which is before us tomorrow gives a good and complete overview of the results and expectations of the montreal climate conference in december.
the montreal conference was a success and the climate resolution expresses our appreciation for the opening of the dialogue on a future climate policy.
innovation is needed to combat climate change, the directive on tradable emission allowances is an important sign of the european union's commitment and still deserves our full support.
this conflict proves once again that the european union must provide a guarantee, a guarantee of energy security.
the european union can only achieve this energy security by means of an ambitious policy, a common sustainable energy policy based on energy security, diversification and energy saving.
the need for environmental technology is greater than ever; the commission has also made serious efforts to involve developing countries in this process.
only ambitious policies can ensure that the eu can break out of this unfavourable position of dependence and that global warming is limited to 2 degrees.
ladies and gentlemen, we have three amendments which we would like to see supported and these amendments concern environmental technology, the energy crisis and the developing countries.
for modal incomes, flying is usually not an option anyway, so it's okay to add a hefty tax if it's good for the climate.
i also find it a real shame that the nuclear lobby is constantly taking advantage of the problem of climate change to put itself back on the map.
the focus on climate change should be primarily on truly sustainable alternatives.
the eu must therefore send a strong signal now that it is committed to continuing the fight against climate change.
because russia has threatened before, and i believe it has carried out a threat, to use the energy weapon to exert political pressure on countries in the immediate vicinity.
most of the countries that energy comes from are unstable, so the more countries we can include in our supply, the better.
thirdly, we must make it very clear that we can only secure our energy supply in the long term if we can work with partners who are reliable, partners who are also democratic.
finally, energy policy, which i think is also clearer than ever, also foreign and trade policy.
c sugar is disrupting the world market price and we should therefore look for alternative uses of any surplus, such as energy production.
i agree with many who have said that for those acp countries it should not be the case that sugar becomes the most important product, at least as important will be energy production.
i would encourage the commission to support the acp countries as much as possible in this process, because sugar cane can be better used for energy production in those countries, at least if they are in the tropics.
bioethanol is a way out, provided its production is energy efficient.
only in this way can we have a social future for the sector - a sustainable future - and only in this way can the sector accept this reform.
this will increase public participation in the preparation of environmental plans and programmes.
this regulation strengthens democracy in the field of the environment.
the aarhus provisions on access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters will apply throughout the union.
access to justice, as provided for in the aarhus convention, implies that the public should have the opportunity to bring environmental decisions of the institutions of the european union before the european court of justice.
at present, citizens with an environmental interest or environmental ngos have no chance of bringing an action before the court, because they are rarely directly and individually affected (the conditions for access to justice laid down in the ec treaty).
of course it is important that ngos have the same access to justice, although there are some criticisms to be made of the way this has been framed by the european commission and the environment committee (in particular amendments 22 and 25).
it is not desirable that every environmental decision of the european institutions should be brought before the court of justice, because it creates legal uncertainty and will only add to the enormous workload of the european judiciary.
on the other hand, where there are serious and justified doubts about a particular environmental decision, there should be the possibility of challenging it.
another part of the group thinks the opposite, namely that inequality is being created because environmental ngos would be given a privileged position and that it would also be at least at odds with the treaty.
i am, and i will conclude with this, mr president, looking forward to the commission's comments on the forthcoming article by mr wiedenmann in the scientific journal environmental health perspectives, in which he says in complicated english: concentration responsive effects with no observed adverse effect levels, abbreviated noaels.
the first is based on our own self-interest, on attempts to make the environment serve economic and military desires developed within the european union.
in the present hopeless situation, this resolution, which rightly points out the many abuses, is better than remaining silent about the misdeeds of our great energy supplier.
and i think that energy policy has been put much higher on our agenda because of what happened in early january.
too vulnerable, because the consequences of an unexpected energy shortage can be catastrophic.
the third point i want to make here, and this is the most important, is that energy resources and their availability are being used as a political weapon, in this case against ukraine, but also against moldova and, in fact, also against georgia.
centralization of decision-making is often not in the interests of organisations seeking to protect labour, the environment and safety.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
i hope that this week the european parliament will take a major new step towards a sustainable european agriculture.
sustainable development is one of the areas where the eu can deliver, animal welfare is part of that and that is why this directive needs to be put in place quickly.
firstly, it sets the same standards throughout the european union and i would imagine that in a cold climate like finland or in a very different climate like italy very different standards would have to apply as regards the number of animals in a given area.
i agree with what mr savary has just said: we must give state support to the priorities of the 21st century: the lisbon objectives, innovation, knowledge, sustainability and so on.
i think that we should therefore give much less state aid to old and dying industries and as far as state aid for environmental objectives is concerned, i think we should first look at the elimination of the billions of state aid we give to whole polluting industries and sectors which use non-renewable energy sources and i will therefore recommend my group to support the amendments of mr lipietz which go in that direction.
president, commissioner piebalgs, we know that heating and cooling account for almost half of the energy consumed in the european union, and yet nothing has been done to make energy use more efficient.
this directive is the final piece of the european energy policy.
the ppe-de group in the european parliament is calling for a doubling of the current share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption for heating and cooling by 2020. this energy can often be generated on site, and the techniques have been greatly improved.
this applies to solar, wind, water, biomass and geothermal energy.
take a german example: between 1998 and 2002, this has doubled employment in the energy sector to around 125 000 jobs.
in order to implement this policy, member states should propose achievable national targets and ensure an energy mix within the limits of their own capabilities.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
with this compromise parliament is only showing its political impotence and workers, consumers and the environment will soon be victims of this impotence.
how different was it in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, where a large majority had the political courage to say no to the original proposal, to the country of origin principle and to the undermining of public services and social systems.
this is in line with the environmental and labour standards in force in the member states.
the founding father of this republic, ayatollah khomeini, rejected nuclear energy on principle as an 'un-islamic technology'.
today, however, president ahmadi-nejad considers nuclear energy a blessing from allah!
the iranian authorities also claim to be concerned only with the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
of course, it is good if environmental legislation is proportionate, for example - but this is always a political assessment.
the production of these products uses very little mercury, which also poses a relatively low environmental risk by being contained in glass.
we believe that the production of this european heritage should be allowed to continue in a controlled environment.
we cannot afford to lose sight of this, fish stocks are in a bad way, and a change of course towards sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing is urgently needed, and this change affects us all.
our group stresses that fishermen must be able to use sustainable methods.
this requires an active and committed public sector to promote sustainable fisheries.
thirdly, consumers must be involved in sustainable fishing.
many consumers want to buy well-caught fish, but they don't know which fish is sustainable.
sustainable fish is first of all fish that is not overfished without unnecessary by-catch and discarding, and this requires good information to consumers.
we must constantly call for sustainable fisheries and we must act; we must respond to those fishermen who allow the creation of fisheries reserves temporarily, so that they do not temporarily lose their income.
only with responsible politicians and active public authorities, innovative fishermen and concerned consumers can both the fisheries sector and fish have a sustainable future.
there is no point in philosophizing about an entrepreneurial climate or lifelong learning if we do not put it into practice.
it is not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank about this, it is the rapporteur's opinion, he has never put it under chairs or benches; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
after the major enlargement of 2004, this climate has changed considerably.
the message of my group, nevertheless, is that president barroso, the commissioner and their colleagues should not be caught napping in the situation we now find ourselves in, with the mergers, acquisitions and developments we see in the financial markets, energy and other sectors – sectors that are all very important for the european economy.
if we ask our farmers to respect animal welfare standards, to respect environmental objectives, etc., then it is very unfair to say to those same farmers, you have to compete with the rest of the world, with farmers who do not have to adhere to the same standards.
or, commissioner, you can join the battle between dg industry and dg environment over air quality, chemicals and make a strong case for health.
some have powerful foreign friends, for example, because of their role in energy supply.
(applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the crisis.
energy is essential for every country.
the interlinking of energy policy with foreign policy is now a fact.
the european union must beware of pressure from energy-producing countries.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all energy suppliers.
in addition to a more diverse energy mix, they can seek to increase their emergency reserves.
these measures, together with the intensification of cooperation between the member states, are more important than a comprehensive european energy policy.
the energy agreement with russia also calls for caution.
critical distance is preferable to further integration in the energy field with countries with which we have an unstable relationship.
so liberalisation should be gradual, for the benefit of the acp countries and adapted to the specific situation of the various countries, while keeping essential basic services such as water, education, transport and energy available to all.
or are we risking, by taking a too clear-cut stance, to create a conflict with other priorities, such as securing europe's energy supply?
this is very clear from the place the environment occupies in economic policy.
the stockholm summit decided to seek to include environmental and social policy in the economic policy guidelines.
the aim is to achieve a sustainable and social market economy in the european union.
i think that the environmental aspects of economic policy are not being sufficiently addressed.
i therefore advocate that the guidelines for economic policy should include clear and concrete environmental objectives in addition to references to the importance of the environment.
i am thinking here of the inclusion of targets for energy consumption and co2 emission reductions.
this creates the illusion that it is precisely in the field of social protection, the environment and consumer protection that more attention should be paid to subsidiarity.
the european institutions, this parliament in particular, rarely or never ask themselves whether european involvement in a particular subject is actually contributing to a better well-being of people and the environment.
in the netherlands we have examples of this, for example the committee which oversees environmental impact assessments.
because the program offers many possibilities: the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment.
as rapporteur, she has made a number of important suggestions to maintain the environmental quality of these proposals.
a first milestone has been reached in the field of climate policy.
there is a broad consensus in this parliament that we need to take climate change seriously.
urgent action is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
f-gases are strong greenhouse gases used in a wide variety of products, such as air conditioning and refrigeration systems, fire extinguishers, building foam and even shoe soles.
greenhouse gases must be reduced as much as possible.
innovation is important, and it helps to reduce global warming.
instead of the legal basis of the internal market, we opted for the legal basis of the environment.
the internal market should be based on a high level of environmental protection.
europe is not here to force member states to do worse or to deprive them of the possibility of pursuing a decent environmental policy.
that space is badly needed, because innovation is important for climate policy, but ultimately also for our economy and for the lisbon agenda.
french energy companies are making foreign acquisitions, but the borders remain closed to foreign acquisitions in france and foreign workers are also being denied access, now that the services directive has been blocked.
the pressure must now be increased, partly in connection with the g8 energy summit in st petersburg in mid-july.
so my question is: is the council afraid that by taking a too clear-cut position it will come into conflict with other priorities such as its own energy supply?
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97).
i believe that the fight against overregulation at european level is an important part of the drive towards a better and simplified community legislative environment.
the only way to bring about a change is to bring about a united approach by all those involved, the commercial fishermen, the sport fishermen, regional and national authorities, environmental and nature protection organisations.
if the european commission adopts the proposed amendments of parliament, as commissioner borg has already indicated on a number of points, a successful decisionmaking process can be ensured with a wide support - from sweden to spain - from fishermen, sport fishermen and environmental organisations.
this opens up prospects for the use of the glasshouse, including in european waters, and it also makes it possible to restore the commitment to sustainability.
the commissioner rightly pointed out that parliament had removed a specific sustainability criterion in an amendment and he indicated that he wished to examine with the technical specialists how to arrive at an objective method of measurement.
mr president, fisheries agreements must be used to promote sustainable fishing.
the agreement with morocco will contribute to the sustainable management of scarce fish stocks and will be based on the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
because without a modal shift, our transport cannot meet the demands of sustainability.
nevertheless, my group still believes that the programme before us is of great importance in improving the environment and curbing the totally uncontrolled growth of road transport.
i would like to thank the commission for responding positively to the initiative proposal of the committee on fisheries, so that the european union's trade policy will also be adjusted so that we can finally implement a sustainability policy ourselves, also in our export policy for fishery products.
the construction of motorways and the extraction of minerals are still the most cost-effective means of protecting nature and the environment in the region.
if it had been a company operating in a fast-changing environment, i would have advised the ecb, when it was drawing up a profile for a new board member, to look at this aspect of diversity.
the european border regions will be given the opportunity to implement concrete programmes on the external borders in the coming years, also with the help of the european regional development fund, some 700 million euro per year, covering a wide spectrum of areas such as health, education, the economy, the environment, etc.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
i voted for the krehl report on the community strategic guidelines on the basis that it goes some way in attempting to inject a more social and environmental side to the commission's proposed strategic guidelines and because it supports sound partnership between all parties and the strengthening of civil society.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
i would say that we should try to develop a new policy in the coming years in a number of areas, energy policy, the energy problems we have and where the americans and the europeans have a number of common interests.
the fact that her report was unanimously adopted in the committee on the environment indicates that she has chosen a line which many can share.
pollution is therefore a waste of capital and must be avoided.
in general, i can say that i will support the amendment which has been tabled in the committee on the environment.
climate change may increase water supplies.
the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
this sharing of knowledge must take place, because only then will the framework programme be at the service of what we should really be advocating with the eu in the world, namely a social and sustainable globalisation.
i expect a lot from the energy research programme.
there are opportunities for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
for example, global warming is possible, as i saw last week in the dutch horticultural sector.
the debate was, however, focused on the important subject of energy, for obvious reasons.
the question of energy relations, in particular with russia, has also been the subject of a thorough internal discussion within the european union.
the discussions in russia were also influenced by the european council in march, which for the first time envisaged the development of a european energy policy.
the european council at the end of this week will be discussing the external aspects of the european union's energy policy on the basis of a paper by the high representative and the commission.
the energy talks at the summit will also be taken into account in the g8 discussions in st petersburg in july.
as you know, the main topic of the russian g8 presidency is the security of energy supply.
we have taken this opportunity to have a comprehensive, honest, open energy dialogue.
the european union has stated that russia must be, has been and is a reliable partner in the energy sector.
we also stressed the importance of the principles of transparency and openness to competition and strongly urged russia to ratify the energy charter treaty.
in response, president putin assured that russia would remain a reliable energy supplier, while at the same time not ruling out russia's ratification of the energy charter treaty in the long term.
he pointed out that there is already significant foreign investment in the russian energy sector, which is much larger than in many other energy producing countries.
he said that reciprocity would only make sense if the european union was also willing to give russia access to resources that were of similar importance to the eu as energy resources were to russia.
it has become clear that the european union and russia also have very different views on how to develop cooperation in the energy sector.
the two sides agreed to continue, expand and intensify the energy dialogue already begun.
the two sides stressed at the summit the mutual dependence on energy and the need for the eu and russia to define their relations in this crucial area by mutual agreement.
at the summit, there was a very open, frank and substantive discussion with president putin on energy.
that was extremely helpful as we prepare for the european council discussions on the external aspects of eu energy policy on the basis of the joint paper by the commission and the high representative.
the eu and russia are and certainly will remain interdependent in the energy sector and there is a genuine opportunity to integrate eu and russian energy markets in a mutually beneficial, reciprocal, transparent and non-discriminatory manner.
as regards energy, we must not only pursue a sustainable relationship between supplier and customer, as has just been said, but also prevent russia from using gas as a political lever in the future.
energy, we've already talked about that.
when i was preparing my remarks tonight i thought back to march 2000, when the political leaders of europe launched a very ambitious strategy to make europe the strongest sustainable knowledge-based economy in the world.
mr president, if there were no european union, there would certainly be a need for a broad cooperation of all european states to contribute to improving the living conditions of people living in border areas, to transfrontier aspects of the environment, energy supply and consumer protection, and to protecting health against dangerous substances which can be traded internationally.
it shows that the commission is also concerned about a sustainable society.
i can agree with the conclusion drawn by the commission in its document, namely that if we are to move towards a sustainable society, we must seize the opportunities that exist now.
if we are serious about sustainable development, there are many examples of actions we can take immediately.
the european citizen is becoming increasingly critical of the eu and waste of money is one of the main reasons for this justified criticism.
if member states do not act adequately against fraud and waste of european money, this should have an impact on the amount of subsidies they receive.
despite its almost complete isolation from the outside world, the country has built up a metropolitan living environment and developed its own nuclear industry.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i very much support his remarks to the committee on the environment.
a communication from the european commission does indeed examine various possibilities and also briefly discusses the need for more consistent application of energy taxes.
at the same time, the commission recognises that the latter cannot be seen as a cornerstone of a strategy to combat climate change effectively.
it has reached a conclusion on emissions trading, and i wholeheartedly support that conclusion.
furthermore, there is endless drumming on kerosene as a salvation solution to all environmental problems and more.
now , with all due respect , the tax is nice for the treasury, but the environmental impact is by no means certain.
i am in favour of the commission's proposal to put a stop to the rapidly increasing contribution of aviation to climate change.
the report by mrs caroline lucas is a good complement to the proposal and we agree with her that the inclusion of the aviation sector in emissions trading should not be the only instrument but should be part of a package of measures such as the introduction of kerosene tax, vat on airline tickets and congestion tax for airports.
i agree with the rapporteur that the emission allowances to be issued should be auctioned to avoid the large companies getting rich off free allowances without any benefit to the environment.
although my group considers the commission proposal to be a step in the right direction, we should not blindly focus on emissions trading, the environmental benefits of which are not clear.
the emission of nitrogen oxides (nox) is also of great importance, not only for the climate, but also for air quality.
that is why we are in favour of including nox in emissions trading, as is already being done in the netherlands.
we agree with the rapporteur that research into cleaner engines is desirable, but this should not lead to the postponement of targeted measures against these emissions.
if nox is not included in emissions trading as it now appears, airports should be encouraged to implement local emission levies as part of the package of measures mentioned by the rapporteur.
the railways have been paying a much higher price for electricity since the introduction of emissions trading, but the airlines still do not pay a penny of excise duty despite their constant complaints about high fuel prices.
- the consequences of our climate change are becoming more acute every year.
if we are to take the fight against climate change seriously, all sectors must contribute.
i can support the plan to introduce an emissions trading system for aviation too.
secondly, account should be taken of the efforts already made by airlines to reduce their emissions.
firstly, aviation is a major contributor to climate change: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of air transport.
the environmental burden is certainly high for short distances, and it is precisely at short distances that alternatives exist and are now underused.
the second problem is that few people are aware of the large environmental burden of aviation.
that is why it would be good if the co2 emissions per kilometre were shown on the tickets and on the cars.
it would be useful for us as parliamentarians to know exactly what the co2 emissions are when we travel by car, train or plane to brussels or strasbourg.
the third problem is that the environmental burden is not reflected in the cost in any way.
i think it is obvious that we should try to join the existing system of emissions trading, but we must avoid the mistakes of this system.
fifth: all producers of batteries in the european union are registered, so that all producers are responsible for financing the collection and treatment of waste batteries.
finally, i would like to mention the most important part of the directive on which we had already reached agreement at first reading, namely the ban on cadmium in portable batteries, which will come into force in 2008. this will eventually remove this harmful metal from household waste.
this is of course good for the environment and good for public health.
we in parliament should applaud this substantial contribution to sustainable, safe and competitive transport across europe.
it rightly emphasizes that member states have a responsibility in the first place when it comes to the storage or treatment of nuclear waste.
that certainly applies to the right to refuse outside waste.
the producer of nuclear waste has a continuing responsibility to ensure that it is properly processed and stored, even if this happens in another country.
the local population and the environment are the victims of european nuclear laxity.
if countries choose to use a dangerous and environmentally unfriendly energy source as nuclear energy, they should clean up their own mess instead of saddling the population of poor countries outside the eu with it.
but if we really want to tackle the problem of nuclear waste in europe, we must first of all address the source, otherwise we will be left with the faucet on.
it is particularly disturbing to see nuclear energy, after having been rightly marginalized for some time in the energy debate, slipping back onto the european agenda.
but nuclear energy is not an environmentally friendly, safe, cheap and therefore acceptable alternative.
the waste problem is a good example of this.
road transport is responsible for around 25% of european co2 emissions, half of which comes from passenger cars.
the reduction of co2 emissions from our fleet can therefore make a significant contribution to the kyoto objectives to which the european union has committed itself.
last year, in its report on climate change, the european parliament highlighted the need to make major improvements in energy efficiency in the transport sector.
in addition, technological innovation is crucial to achieving our climate goals.
by differentiating taxes according to their environmental impact, we can discourage harmful practices, promote economy and stimulate technological innovation.
we therefore welcome the commission's proposal to differentiate the annual road tax according to co2 emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
this means that heavier engines, which use more fuel and contribute more to climate change, are relatively more heavily taxed.
in this way there are no high barriers to driving in modest models, whereas there is a price to be paid for touring in the most expensive and largest cars, which cause the most damage to the environment.
the result is a huge amount of space for parking lots and motorways, with noise pollution, air pollution and unsafe traffic.
the tax on passenger cars is now being increased in several member states to take account of the pollution they cause.
without contributing to reducing pollution, the aim is to harmonise taxes in the member states and to open up new growth opportunities for the car market by reducing prices from 2016. the draft directive, which aims to gradually and partially offset car emissions in the motor vehicle tax, would have to have a quarter of the tax based on co2 emissions by the end of 2008 and half by 2010, but why are we stopping at half?
why has the commission not proposed that nox and particulate matter emissions and fuel efficiency be taken as the basis for the motor vehicle tax, rather than waiting for amendments?
the aim should be to reduce harmful emissions rather than to provide the car industry with customers who want to buy the latest model car every year even after the market is saturated.
meanwhile, car emissions have increased by 30% over the past decade.
in our view, the tax on cars is not based on half of their co2 emissions, but entirely on the pollution they cause.
the easiest way to do this is to convert the motor vehicle tax into a fuel tax, depending on emissions.
linking the level of charges to environmental impacts is a transparent and clear objective.
further research and discussion on the environmental effects of car taxes therefore deserve all support.
the member states can then, on the basis of the results of the investigations, adjust their charges to take account of environmental damage.
finally, the matter of the transport of waste, for which i am also rapporteur.
they wonder how sustainable everything we have right now is.
the electricity companies have been given free allowances and have been able to sell them on to the energy-intensive industry, but also to consumers, and that is of course unacceptable at a time when the profits of the electricity companies are already increasing.
the impression we got during that visit was that the european union is indeed present and preparing for its task, which, as we all know, will be quite crucial for the future of kosovo, but that the energy and attention being put into the matter leaves a lot to be desired.
the country is now known for child trafficking, pyramid schemes, energy waste, mistreatment of prisoners, and international crime.
in the long run, before it can get that far, it needs support for democracy, education, the environment and the economy.
i regret that the proposed decision seems to be more concerned with guarantees for foreign companies than with the environment, food safety and good governance.
the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment.
(the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs carmen fraga, on her report on the commission communication, and also the rapporteur, mr ries, on the environment committee.
the rules of environmental legislation must also be respected, and this also requires the necessary action on the part of the member states, but it could be a good guarantee.
the commission has also recently introduced an ecolabel, which i think is a very good thing, especially when it also explicitly includes sustainable fishing and a number of other issues.
air pollution and the acid rain it causes are also a major environmental problem in large parts of europe, especially in scandinavia.
we therefore expect a firm policy to reduce air pollution, commissioner, and we are therefore disappointed in the proposals you have put forward.
the reports by krahmer and myself are first and foremost an indictment of the indifferent attitude towards air pollution.
firstly, stricter standards, secondly, more attention to implementation and thirdly, source measures to tackle air pollution.
the commission's report on the environment calls for a higher level of ambition in both reports, and this is badly needed.
the commission has a duty to ensure that this is done properly, and it needs to do so, because air pollution is a transnational problem.
half of the air pollution in the netherlands comes from abroad.
the netherlands cannot therefore clean up the air on its own and must rely on the governments in belgium, england and germany to make every effort to tackle air pollution.
but the netherlands exports a lot of pollution and therefore the scandinavian countries, germany and belgium too must be able to count on the netherlands to do everything possible to clean up the air.
the committee on the environment wants to see new provisions in the directive to encourage the commission to take a more active stance.
a serious resource policy is good for the air, for the environment and for public health, but ultimately it is also good for energy savings and for the climate because of the reduced co2 emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it.
i think that the environment committee has laid a solid foundation with these three pillars.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air quality in the member states is not affected by pollution.
you have no doubt also read the report drawn up by the european environmental policy institute last week.
the environment ministers can sleep well at night, because they have set strict standards.
but then they come home and they're confronted with an investigation by the environmental protection agency that says that everything they've put on that patient paper is not going to make it home anyway.
in the third world, but also in parts of europe, we see that such urban areas can become totally uninhabitable through traffic chaos, squatting, pollution and land speculation.
lacking clean drinking water, a dense network of frequent public transportation, good waste disposal, and affordable, good housing, or lacking health, welfare, and education, the city becomes hell.
this will help to combat risks and abuses, to promote initiatives for improvement and to strengthen the development and enforcement of better environmental standards.
i support the rapporteur, mr hegyi, in his efforts to promote clean transport, the protection of historic urban centres, careful water management, energy conservation and the protection of natural areas.
the environmental aspects of this have not been satisfactorily answered.
more importantly, it is an important contribution to the sustainability of the monthly strasbourg weeks.
we emphasize in our opinion human rights, proper democratic governance and good environmental policy.
a communication circulated by romania on 23 september reports that an environmental impact assessment has been launched and that consultations are under way with neighbouring hungary on the danger of toxic waste water flowing into the country.
i share his concern about the development of the north sea stocks of herring and sole, but at the same time it is also clear that this is not related to fishing effort but perhaps to climate change, which sometimes cannot be fully explained.
the design of materials at the molecular level creates new properties whose effects on human health and the environment are still unknown.
it is then the task of the european commission, the member states, regional authorities, industry and smes: i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
but we are also in favour of a sustainable fisheries sector.
we are therefore against renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet if it is not sustainable innovation.
president, the accession of newcomers to the european union is best achieved when democracy, human rights, environmental protection and prosperity are at about the same level as in the other member states.
smoking and asbestos are major causes, and air pollution is a risk factor.
chemical pollution, i.e.
exposure to environmental factors, but also drug or pill use.
many breast cancer patients themselves suspect that their disease is related to the environment, to medication, or to the use of the pill.
there is a need for more clarity on the effects of endocrine disruptors in the environment and on the use of hormones as medicines or contraceptives.
furthermore, economically and in terms of energy, we both need each other.
we cannot have a situation where russia wants to invest in our gas and oil infrastructure and even wants to buy a minority stake in airbus, but where at the same time our companies like shell and mobil are kicked out of the energy fields in russia.
lastly, i compliment mr blair and mr balkenende for their initiative on climate change.
we are firmly opposed to unilateral measures such as the holding of a referendum or so-called referendum, since there was no question of a democratic referendum in a free and open environment.
is the commission prepared to draw up an annual blacklist of countries and transnational companies involved in the illegal dumping of chemical waste in developing countries?
finally, is the commission prepared to take the necessary steps to assist developing countries in identifying hazardous substances and to ensure safe treatment of waste water produced at sea?
the council has rightly been called upon to take responsibility for this by the chairman of the committee on the environment.
the environmental and health implications of this are not yet known.
this kind of outrageous practices, which are disrespectful to the environment and the public, and in which the public authorities and those responsible deliberately or unconsciously shirk their responsibilities, must be tackled at every possible level.
i am in favour of a blacklist of waste dumps and of publicising waste treatment agreements with developing countries.
what happened in the ivory coast with the waste from the ship proba koala is terrible and should never have happened.
it is quite clear that this was an illegal waste shipment.
the basel convention expressly prohibits the shipment of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries and this prohibition has not been upheld.
it has long been known that the current legislation on shipments of waste is seriously flawed.
samples taken in england and france show that between 75% and 100% of waste shipments are not compliant.
for the european parliament, good enforcement and stricter controls were a sticking point in the negotiations during the creation of the new waste shipment regulation.
- the export of waste to developing countries is prohibited.
only normal ship waste and rinsing water are not covered by the ban.
but earlier in amsterdam it had already been shown that the waste water was not normal.
secondly, do you agree that ships leaving the eu should be obliged to discharge their waste water and waste at the last eu port?
finally, what measures can and will the commission take to strengthen controls on the export of hazardous waste?
mr president, what we are actually talking about today is an example of environmental crime which we are not sure will be prosecuted in the future.
that is why we are saying that in order to ensure that environmental policy is properly enforced, we must also have legislation on criminal law.
i would also like to know from the council, mr president - i was a former rapporteur - whether the council is prepared to accept a new proposal to deal with environmental crime.
the victims and the damage to the environment must be compensated, and the polluter must of course be held responsible for the costs incurred.
mr president, the twelfth conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in nairobi is the first such conference to be held in sub-saharan africa, the poorest region of the world with which the european union has special political relations.
the european union will emphasise that the fight against climate change can be combined with rapid economic growth.
the development of the economies of asian, african and south american countries, security of energy supply and improvements in air quality are, for example, important parallel benefits of action to combat climate change.
i believe that better international understanding of the dangerous effects of climate change, and a greater interest in addressing the needs of developing countries, will increase the chances of reaching an agreement for the period after 2012. the european union has four specific priorities in nairobi.
the programme contains a number of activities aimed at improving our resilience, such as further improving our knowledge of the negative consequences of climate change, its socio-economic impacts and the vulnerabilities of our economies and societies to climate change.
developing countries are not comfortable with the prospect of having to step up their efforts to combat climate change.
at the same time, many developed countries are still reluctant to take the necessary action to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions needed to help limit the average global temperature increase by 2 degrees celsius.
in nairobi, the european union will continue to make a strong case that the fight against climate change and the millennium development goals are not only compatible but also interdependent.
the second is to reach agreement on how to revise the kyoto protocol, on the basis of article 9. but we must look beyond nairobi, as europe needs to step up its efforts to convince its partners around the world to continue their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond 2012. it is very positive, ladies and gentlemen, that 10 members of parliament are part of the community delegation and i personally look forward - as has been the case over the last two years - to working closely with them.
in this way we will be able to convey to a global audience our ambition and our shared vision for a sustainable future for humanity.
the climate is changing fast, faster than expected.
when we talk about the energy crisis and the climate problem, we must not be held hostage to pessimism.
i would like to reiterate my support for the emissions trading system.
in the slightly longer term, we should think about auctioning emissions allowances.
secondly, i am in favour of large-scale investment in the development of a new clean energy source.
blue energy from the mix of salt and fresh water can provide energy.
the ladder windmills with high-altitude kites that work like a windmill and generate energy.
energy-producing greenhouses and houses, geothermal, solar mirrors, there's a lot of potential.
europe has a historic responsibility for climate change and it is our task to help developing countries adapt to its effects.
climate change is not always a popular topic in developing countries.
a leader of a developing country - mr president, i had been given an extra minute because anne ferreira has generously given me her speaking time, so i have three minutes - once said to a dutch minister for the environment: first we're going to be as rich as you, and then we're going to worry about climate change as much as you.
getting rich without carbon emissions.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for the action plan on energy efficiency published last week, but i would also like to point out that the 20% target is firstly too low and secondly will never be reached unless binding reduction targets are set for the member states.
president, as my colleagues avril doyle and dorette corbey have already said, the european parliament delegation to the climate conference wants the commitment that we will now finally be allowed to attend all the meetings attended by the european union delegation.
parliament is also ambitious in the field of the environment.
i would like to draw particular attention to problematic environmental legislation.
it's a way of saving space and the environment.
my group opposes overcapacity, even on waterways, at the expense of space, nature and the environment.
river adaptation has implications for surface values, biodiversity, drinking water supply and flooding of surrounding lowland.
together with the green group, we are proposing infrastructure charges to promote fair competition between different forms of transport, better environmental impact assessment of european development plans, tightening up legislation on the transport of dangerous goods and combating the flagging of inland vessels, which has negative effects on social, safety and environmental standards.
i also wholeheartedly support the recommendation to actively improve the environmental performance of the fleet.
as in road transport, national incentive schemes for the introduction of emission reduction and energy saving also provide an impetus for the greening of the fleet in inland waterway transport.
overfishing and pollution have taken their toll.
if we introduce sustainable fishing methods in addition to reserves, we can secure the future of fisheries in the waters around the european union.
the japanese oyster has found a pleasant climate in the north sea with no natural enemies, but this oyster is actually growing too well.
the marine directive forces member states to think about how to improve the environmental status of the seas and how to work together better.
products can break down or leak and mercury still gets into the environment.
i would like to draw attention once again to the three objectives of european development policy as set out in the treaty, namely sustainable development, the fight against poverty and the gradual integration of the developing countries into the world economy.
i also miss the energy and time for the actual implementation in 2007. for national policy documents, that means consultation there and here.
i fear that fear, protectionism and the need to preserve the environment have prevailed in this whole debate.
only europe will be willing to stand up for a different kind of globalisation, a social, sustainable and equitable development.
let us talk about the energy chapter, where we hope, after the agreement in principle, that the basic principles of the chapter will be accepted.
it is important that a lot of money be spent on health and energy research.
energy has been allocated 2 billion, and at least half of that is going to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
public opinion increasingly associates enlargement with low wages and poor reception of migrant workers, or with crime, corruption, environmental pollution, roma discrimination, fascist movements, legal uncertainty, begging street children and financial scandals.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the subject of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the compromise is very precarious, protecting on the one hand man, the environment and consumers, the limited animal testing, but it also offers an opportunity to create an optimal climate for european industry; we can tell the finnish minister that we are ahead, but we must make sure that we do not become deadbeats.
the fact that both the environmental movement and the chemical industry are unhappy with the compromise is understandable, but in this case it is clear that the better is the enemy of the good.
i would like to make one further point, namely that i believe that member states should be able to pursue a stricter environmental policy than is currently established; this is particularly true when countries such as sweden and denmark already have such stricter legislation.
that's good for the environment, but it's also good for innovation.
reach is the catalyst for this innovation which benefits both our competitiveness and the environment.
what is important for the average farmer, the average livestock farmer, is what the energy content of the feed is, what the protein content is and what the reputation of the company is.
so instead of moping with the faucet open, we're actually turning the pollution faucet off.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of bathing water is not affected by the pollution caused by nitrates.
they are not only standing up for human rights, peace, democracy, livelihood, fair sharing, public services and a clean environment for the people in their own town, region or state, but also for the people in their neighbouring countries and in other parts of the world.
these groups are relatively easy to seduce into behaviour harmful to themselves and sometimes to their environment.
it is precisely these most polluting cars that should and can be subject to strict environmental requirements, and i fully agree with mr belet.
a large majority of the committee on the environment voted in favour of the amendment.
we have included more flexibility in previous legislation and we should allow that in euro 5. within the united states, the state of california has more power to impose stricter environmental requirements on new cars than the member state of the netherlands within the european union's internal market.
the treaty also allows member states to take more far-reaching measures to protect the environment.
i therefore re-submitted amendment no 59 by the committee on the environment to explicitly state that member states may take further measures to meet air quality standards.
this amendment was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment and deserves the support of a large majority in this parliament.
both industry and environmental organisations have already expressed criticism of the result.
the agreement reached strikes a good balance between economic interests and environmental concerns.
it took the oil tanker disasters and the widespread destruction of the marine and coastal environment to make europe realize that it must not be left behind but must be at the forefront.
the objections raised by the shipowners' association intertanko and the greek member state should be subordinated to the protection of our marine, coastal and port environment.
firstly, that the climate problem deserves the highest priority.
before we can ever speak of a common energy policy, compliance and implementation must be greatly improved.
thirdly, we must invest heavily in efficiency, renewable energy and innovative research in the coming years.
we must put an end to subsidies for polluting energy.
and renewable energy must be supported where necessary.
so far, billions are still going to dirty energy, especially coal and nuclear, and we really need to stop that.
targeted intervention is needed to ensure that biofuels do not lead to the clearing of rainforests and the loss of biodiversity or compete with the food supply.
moreover, there can be no free movement to defend nature and the environment against short-sighted decisions that can increase the short-term profits of the company.