the recent gas crisis between ukraine and russia has demonstrated the need for a common energy policy.
a situation in which individual countries are left to look after their own energy security - gas, oil, electricity - can be risky.
but, despite that, i can't shake the feeling that this debate is largely a waste of time.
i believe that sexuality is an intimate matter of every human being and each one uses it according to his own morality, religion, culture, as well as the customs of his environment.
but also, of course, in the environmental and social problems which are part of our european social model.
we fully support the requirements regarding quality of service standards, environmental protection, technical equipment of airports and air traffic control, including safety issues.
it is good that the union programme covering community aviation takes account of economic, technical, legal, social and environmental aspects, without forgetting safety conditions.
the events of the first week of january in connection with the gas dispute between the russian federation and ukraine have made it very clear to us that we cannot take security of energy supply for granted.
in order to ensure that companies are prepared to make these investments, it is essential to create the most favourable investment climate possible in the energy sector.
the austrian presidency will focus on energy policy and in particular on the security of energy supplies.
security of supply is one of the three pillars, along with competitiveness and, of course, sustainability of european energy policy, at national and community level.
europe needs to do more to meet the energy challenges: globally, we're going to have 50% more energy consumption by 2030. europe's dependence on fossil fuel imports will increase significantly.
within the european community we will have to increase the diversification of energy supply through increased use of renewable energy sources, for example by tripling the use of biomass by 2010. the cost-effective use of renewable energy sources is to become a mainstay of europe's energy supply.
from the austrian point of view, however, the use of nuclear energy is not an option.
overall, it will be necessary on the supply side to continue the efforts towards a common european internal market and to increase investment in energy supply.
on the consumer side, it will be necessary to improve energy efficiency in the community.
there are currently large differences between member states in energy efficiency, measured as energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product.
in this context, we can jointly refer to the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services.
these partnerships should be pursued consistently at multilateral level for example through dialogues in the international energy forum or in the framework of the energy treaty with south-eastern europe and at bilateral level in the framework of the european union-russia or european union-opec dialogue .
the willingness to cooperate is a very important element in securing energy supplies.
as a secure energy future for the european union is in the interest of all member states, i am convinced that we will succeed.
mr president, i should like to thank parliament for finding time today to debate the security of energy supplies and particularly gas.
secondly, the dispute has underlined the usefulness of the energy dialogues with russia and ukraine.
thirdly, this dispute has underlined the importance of and the need for a clearer, more cohesive and proactive eu-wide energy security policy.
i should like to stress the importance of developing a common approach to energy, which was highlighted at the hampton court informal summit and in the meeting between the presidency and the commission at the start of the austrian presidency.
addressing those kinds of issues is one of the objectives of the energy market observation system which is under development in my services.
more generally, this incident has thrown into sharp focus our increasing dependency on external energy supply.
the necessity of adopting and developing a common eu approach will be addressed in a green paper on energy policy that the commission is currently preparing.
clearly, the development of a common approach to the external energy dimension will be a fundamental element in the green paper.
this external energy dimension should be based on a diversification of different energies, as well as on different energy sources, routes, suppliers and transit networks.
while the eu has been engaged, via its technical assistance programmes, in promoting the development of new supply routes, and upgrading and enhancing existing routes, it is clear that other major energy consumers also take a very proactive and political approach to this issue.
there are also, of course, the internal aspects of an eu energy policy to consider: firstly, the need to ensure that an internal eu-wide energy market is a practical reality.
then there is the need to facilitate the necessary infrastructure investments required to ensure that the various national energy markets in the eu can really become more integrated.
we also need to ensure that sufficient policy and financial support is given to research in priority areas and to ensure that more efficient energy technologies, including cleaner coal and renewable energy technologies, can penetrate the market.
we need more actively to pursue policies and measures that can achieve real energy savings and efficient use of energy and thus diminish our external dependency.
finally, we need to improve energy security measures to enhance the solidarity mechanisms to face the challenges of possible disruptions to energy supplies.
while it is true that energy is just a commodity, it is a commodity that is fundamental for our continued economic development and wellbeing.
we must learn the lessons from this episode, which i will sum up as a need for a common european energy policy.
this policy needs to be clear, coherent and effective both internally and externally, corresponding to the goals of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability.
the ppe-de group welcomes the fact that the security of energy supply and sustainability of energy production and consumption are one of the austrian presidency’s priorities.
it is high time, since energy security is becoming increasingly important for the overall security of the european union, and especially its economic security.
any difficulty, even temporary, that has the effect of reducing supplies of energy from third states also causes serious disturbances in the economic activity of the union.
we were recently made aware of how the problem of energy security does not solely concern the areas of industry or economics.
energy has been used as a weapon and foreign policy instrument, and hence should be discussed in the context of foreign and security policy.
the recent energy crisis between russia and ukraine has exposed the vulnerability of many member states of the european union that are to a dangerous extent dependent on one supplier.
it is absolutely essential, therefore, for the eu to extend joint action to the energy field and take steps to create a proactive energy policy.
moreover, if we treat the idea of a common market seriously, we should endow economic operators, not to mention citizens, with equality in energy security and supply.
in this light we assess very positively the presidency’s plans to finalise the decision on the trans-european energy network early this year.
one of the main principles of european integration – that of solidarity – encompasses the obligation to assist all those states that are in danger or in difficulty, and that includes problems relating to energy supply shortages.
the union should take concrete steps towards the diversification of energy sources and supply and the sharing of reserves.
all potential avenues for enhancing the union’s energy self-sufficiency should be explored.
the eu should propose a code of conduct on relations with its main energy suppliers.
we should make all the necessary efforts to establish new sources of financing for all the undertakings aimed at increasing the eu’s energy security, both from the eib and from the eu budget itself.
energy security should constitute one of the cornerstones of the neighbourhood policy.
close cooperation in the energy field and the possibility of sharing energy reserves constitute one of the most effective and indispensable confidence-building measures both within the union and between the union and its neighbourhood.
our citizens will appreciate the tangible results of our actions to secure energy supplies.
russia's energy strategy explicitly envisages the use of gas and gas intermediaries to further russia's policy objectives in the region, including towards europe.
the lack of a common long-term energy security strategy is evidence of short-sightedness and even conflicts of interest within the union.
the lack of a smart energy doctrine in the union has contributed to the tripling of oil prices.
the rapid development and implementation of a european energy security strategy is both a necessity and a test of whether the european union is still a community or not.
the weakest link criterion should be the guiding principle of the union's energy security strategy.
the solution to the union's energy security dilemma is hamlet's "to be or not to be".
in this context, it is regrettable that the union budget for 2007-2013 does not include any thought for a common doctrine on energy security in europe.
the proposed reform also disregards environmental requirements.
what about environmental protection?
i share your analysis that future energy production could become a major outlet for community beet.
there are some environmental, and some social obligations that are very important.
the reality is that you have managed successfully to influence the shape of the reform – a reform that will secure sustainability of this sector in europe and a reform that allows us to offer a real alternative to those farmers and to those regions that will be most affected by the restructuring.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading drawn up by mrs eija-ritta korhola on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to community institutions and bodies (06273/2/2005 - c6-0297/2005 - 2003/0242 (cod)) (a6-0381/2005).
with regard to access to environmental information: the commission cannot accept amendments nos 4, 14 and 15 which seek to apply the system of derogations from the provisions of directive 2003/2004 on access to environmental information and requests for information addressed to the community institutions.
the new article 6 of the common position already covers these exceptions and access to environmental information which, in any case, must be explicitly specified in the light of the requirements of the aarhus convention.
amendments nos 7 and 12, which seek to include the degree of progress of infringement proceedings in the definition of environmental information, cannot be accepted.
in addition, infringement procedures are not environmental information in themselves.
in addition, the definition of environment-related projects and programmes is broad and covers programmes of a strategic nature.
in addition, the authorisation of infrastructure projects with significant environmental impact is carried out at member state level with public participation.
the commission cannot accept amendment no 23, which would extend the circle of organisations entitled to request internal review from non-governmental organisations whose main objective is to protect the environment to those which also or alternatively promote sustainable development.
this criterion would be very difficult to define and would probably cover a wide range of organisations for which it would be unjustified to grant, for environmental purposes, the right of access to such a review procedure.
the recognition of a special status for environmental non-governmental organisations, whose main statutory objective is to protect environmental interests, is fully in line with the spirit of the aarhus convention.
the commission considers this provision in the common position to be satisfactory, which refers to the community dimension of the environmental objective which the non-governmental organisation should promote within the community.
the next item is the report by mr jonas sjöstedt, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint proposal, approved by the conciliation committee, for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the management of waste from extractive industries and amending directive 2004/35/ec (pe-cons 3665/2005 - c6-0405/2005 - 2003/0107 ((cod)) (a6-0001/2006).
the european parliament and council directive on the management of waste from various types of quarries in the extractive industries is a very important document for: environmental protection and health, the extractive industries, which will bear the costs of implementing this directive, consensus and reconciliation of the interests of all parties.
mining waste often contains mineral components that should be exploited to limit the opening of additional sites.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs anna ferreira on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the environmental aspects of sustainable development (2005/2051 (ini)) (a6-0383/2005).
the european union is working to integrate environmental considerations into all its policies.
i would like to recall the communication adopted by the european commission on 15 october 1998 which commits to strengthening the integration of environmental and energy policy.
we are witnessing the political decision to build the largest undersea energy network in the baltic sea, comprising a double gas pipeline and an electric cable system.
the construction of this system threatens ecological safety and will have a fatal impact on the state of the aquatic environment in the closed basin of the baltic sea.
instead of focusing on solving current and priority problems, a substitute slogan is proposed: the introduction of an environmental tax.
the creation of a taxation system will not solve environmental problems, but rather exacerbate them, since increasing the tax burden will directly reduce investment in new technologies, which are extremely costly.
i would like to ask you, in this regard, is it true that you intend to waste six months of our time together discussing the rejected constitutional treaty?
but as the presidency, mr chancellor, add money to the eastern neighbourhood policy and to this new challenge, which is the energy security of the european union.
to do this effectively, we should maintain a dedicated human rights instrument that is flexible enough to be an effective tool in a hostile political and legal environment.
in some countries - as in north africa - it is about deepening, broadening cooperation in areas such as energy, security and other areas where this cooperation should take place.
the debate this evening in the european parliament concerns one of the most important issues for the european union: the formulation of a neighbourhood policy that will allow the expansion of the sphere of security, democracy, political freedoms and economic development in the modern world, in the immediate geographical environment of the european union.
gas has become a political lever, and one of the priorities of the european neighbourhood policy is to engage in energy dialogue with third countries and in the organisation of trans-european energy networks.
secondly, the commissioner is promising a special communication on the energy security of the european union, and elmar brok's report calls for the preparation of an energy security strategy.
the aim should be to make energy security policy a community matter.
the alternative is a common energy policy of the european union.
a common foreign policy might have prevented the energy crisis in eastern europe.
i also consider energy security policy to be such an important element of the security policy of the european union.
i would like to point out that europe has not yet taken account of the fact that the question of energy supplies can be a matter of imperial policy.
it's not that there's no gas or oil, but that the great energy resources have been used as part of the imperial policy.
first, there is energy security.
germany, by signing an agreement with russia on the construction of the northern gas pipeline, is improving its energy security, but unfortunately it is significantly worsening poland's situation in this regard.
so far, there is no reaction from the european union on this matter, although it is clear that russia has made the supply of energy resources the most important tool for influencing the policies of other countries.
the period of reflection that has been granted since the death of the treaty should be used not to illegally smuggle individual paragraphs of the constitution, but to re-evaluate joint international action and to put more pressure on areas such as, inter alia, common energy security, the threat of epidemics and terrorism.
it should be noted that environmental factors, aggressive media, the hedonistic and liberal lifestyle promoted today, with no limits, norms, or prohibitions, and the prevalence of pansexuality and pornography, as well as the treatment of people as things to be bought and sold, all play a major role in the spread of violence.
in 2005, the union's business, political and energy interests were at the forefront.
the union's foreign policy is to build a global order based on peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, sustainable development and sustainable growth.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr mechtild rothe on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on heating and cooling from renewable energy sources (ini 2005/2122) (a6-0020/2006).
the issue of heating and cooling, the use of renewable energy sources is part of a larger problem of energy security in the european union.
energy saving is not only an environmental protection but also an important part of the economy, linked also to the development of renewable energy sources.
recent examples of energy terrorism, fuel price increases that negatively affect the economic condition of businesses and the standard of living of citizens, underline the importance of the problem.
first, the assumption that energy saving programmes will be implemented by 2020 is a static approach to the issues, which does not take into account the global market.
secondly, tax breaks and vat reductions require all the activities of energy conservation, recovery and the creation of new renewable energy sources.
third, the need to accelerate the development of unused agricultural land for the production of biomass and renewable fuels, due to the regulation of agricultural production in the european union and the lack of appropriate subsidies for fruit production, such as soft fruit and vegetables.
the rapid development of biomass and fuel production will create jobs and increase the energy security of our countries.
renewable energy sources and since, of course, biomass, but not only biomass will certainly have in the coming months and years because the price of oil will never fall to $10 or $20 a barrel increased market opportunities, and this is good, because it is an opportunity to increase the independence of europe, whereas we should not be deceived: it may be possible to reduce the degree of increase in dependence on fossil fuels, but only the degree of increase, not the degree of dependence.
at the same time, for some landscapes and for some - especially farmers - this means additional sources of income, not only food production but also energy crops.
in fact, biomass, renewable raw materials, could in the long term be the source not only of carbon but indirectly of hydrocarbons, which are then used to power individual motor vehicles.
i believe that in the long term the path for power stations and the like may go in a different direction, but that in particular fossil fuels, which are now used almost exclusively for transport, can be replaced step by step by renewable raw materials and hydrocarbons from this source.
and again, the chances are better, it's easier to make renewable resources, renewable energy sources marketable, when the market price of a barrel of crude oil is 60 dollars, or when a kilowatt hour of electricity is about two and a half times as expensive today as it was two years ago, which is 50 euros for a megawatt hour today.
what europe needs is a coherent energy policy, an energy policy which is more focused on commonalities.
we must learn the lessons, on the one hand, from the climate change issue, on the other hand, from the issue of a significant increase in the price of fossil fuels - not only, but above all, because of the lack of refinery capacity, plus hurricanes, plus geopolitical difficulties - and also the lessons of 1 and 2 january this year, when, for whatever reasons, russian natural gas flowed to europe in a much reduced quantity through ukrainian pipelines.
but this should not prevent us from relying more on our own renewable energy sources and ultimately also turning the screw on energy efficiency.
we all have opportunities in the area of energy efficiency and can improve things, with the new member states generally having greater potential.
their output gross domestic product per unit of energy consumed is significantly lower than in eu-15 countries, where the energy decoupling of energy consumption, gross domestic product and growth started as early as the 1970s, following the 1973 and 1974 oil shocks.
we need a coherent energy policy which does not leave out any of the options already discussed here: renewable energy sources, increased energy efficiency, but at the same time diversification in terms of fossil fuels, i.e.
i believe that the way in which europe has so far liberalized and deregulated the energy sector is an important and correct one.
it has also contributed in particular to price stability, but we must strike a balance in the next few years between increasing security of supply - ultimately giving investors the certainty of making a return on their investment with long-term contracts - and still creating more of a european energy internal market, integrating also south-eastern europe, also ukraine, perhaps also russia.
if this is not about the energy charter, then perhaps it is about the energy community, and that is a concrete proposal which the commission is likely to put forward in the next few weeks.
energy policy is a top priority and we have seen just in the last few months how important it is.
on the subject of the kyoto protocol and climate change, i would like to inform the european parliament that former us president bill clinton, when asked at the world economic forum in davos what he saw as the world's priorities for the next few years, gave the highest priority to climate change.
i agree with you and many others that climate protection is a top priority.
the world's climate is in danger.
however, we as europeans must bear in mind that we are responsible for about 14% of global co2 emissions today, and in 2050 it will be about 10%.
that means 86% of carbon emissions today and 90% in the future come from elsewhere.
let us first bring our industrial and other development to your level, and then we will take part in climate action.
we as europeans should take a further step forward, but at the same time we should also keep our competitiveness in mind and pursue climate protection at the lowest possible cost.
this means that climate protection is of the utmost importance.
at the same time, we are aware that energy prices are linked to competitiveness and hence to jobs.
i am pleading very clearly here, in the interests of jobs in our good old europe, that we should be very, very careful and cautious in our energy-intensive economy and industry.
but we must not risk jobs being moved out of europe to countries which, for the time being, do not care about climate protection.
thank god that the vulnerability of our economy, our gross domestic product, to the effects of energy prices is much lower today than in 1973/74.
the oecd and the european commission estimate that the vulnerability, the sensitivity, has been reduced by about half, because of the much greater energy efficiency of our economy and our production.
this, too, is a case for a more long-term approach to energy policy, for a stronger partnership.
i would also strongly urge that we think more about not just meeting with energy producers but also establishing a dialogue with consumers.
there is therefore a very common interest in creating stable and reliable energy markets and in ensuring security of supply and price stability.
in this climate, the european parliament is debating today a services directive whose implementation will make life easier for consumers and businesses, significantly boost economic growth and create 600 000 new jobs in europe.
we shouldn't waste it.
our action should be based on the instrument of the neighbourhood policy and a separate instrument for human rights, which must be adapted to work in a hostile political and legal environment.
who provides comprehensive insurance for the investor-farmer risk associated with the financing of investments, the risk of changes in product prices, the risk of changes in fertiliser, feed, fuel prices, the risk of global climate change, soil degradation, drought, hurricanes, floods and storms?
in order to be able to really manage - and in fact reduce the risks of doing this production, we have to act on the risks, and that means a different approach to the concentration of production, dispersion, restoration of the natural environment, introduction of new techniques and technologies, such as biotechnology.
only forests of more than 500 hectares allow the restoration of biodiversity of flora and fauna.
any discrimination against state-owned forestry companies is stupid and unwise from an economic and, above all, an ecological point of view.
a well-thought-out, sustainable forest management is therefore needed, which maximises the protective and social functions of forests, which cannot be overridden by production functions.
it also identifies the issues that should be addressed in the union's action plan for sustainable forest management.
however, this is a very general, keyword-based view and even points in the direction of seeking a real balance between the economic, environmental and social functions of forests in a sustainable forest management model.
the natura 2000 ecological network is being implemented in the european union.
as the main objective of natura 2000, the rules for funding biodiversity should be uniform for all forms of property in the natura 2000 network, both private and public.
the european taxpayer is more likely to spend money on forestry or the environment than on the common agricultural policy.
forests cover one third of europe's land area and provide a range of environmental, social and economic benefits to society.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the forestry sector on the environment and on the environment in general.
the forestry sector can make a significant contribution to the lisbon and göteborg objectives.forests have an impact on landscape and cultural values and provide facilities for other activities such as hunting, tourism and are a source of raw materials for renewable energy.
however, the preservation of the natural functions of forests, which are essential for the safety and balance of the ecosystem, requires not only knowledge but also money, and this is something to bear in mind.
without rural development and support for agriculture, there is no food security, no sustainable development, no effective environmental protection.
rural areas in poland therefore require a great deal of financial support and the use of many instruments that will allow the creation of jobs in this environment.
we agree 100% with the complaints against the fund that its policy has not taken into account the fact that inflation is not the only economic problem in developing countries and that the fund should be oriented around the objective of macroeconomic stability and sustainable development.
investors often fail to consider not only the human factor but also the human environment and historical materials.
the ancient world already introduced appropriate legal and technical solutions to ration fisheries and prevent the over-exploitation of stocks and the destruction of biomass, and thus the ecological balance.
experience shows that targeted fishing always weakens the biological strength of valuable species in the ecosystem.
the ecological niche of the most valuable species may be taken over by the useless ones, and it is therefore necessary to recommend constant monitoring of their quantitative relationships.
the energy security programme can also create better, stable conditions for economic development.
the problem is the effectiveness of the measures and the resistance to their implementation, such as the creation of the internal market, the labour market, the creation of a climate for restructuring and setting up businesses, the increase in innovation and thus the elimination of unemployment and the increase in wages.
it cannot be built on differentiated and uneven access to and security of energy supplies.
it is welcome, therefore, that security of energy supply constitutes one of the presidency’s and commission’s priorities.
security of energy supply is crucial for the economic activity and competitiveness of the eu economy as a whole.
energy, as we have witnessed recently, is also sometimes used as a weapon for exerting political influence.
recent problems with energy supply expose our weakness, vulnerability and dependence on third parties.
therefore it is essential for the eu to develop a true energy security policy.
if we treat the internal market and the lisbon agenda seriously, we should endow our economic operators and citizens with equal access to and security of energy supplies.
we must extend this principle of solidarity to problems related to energy supply shortages caused by political action.
what we need in securing external energy supplies is cooperation and solidarity, not competition between member states.
energy security also has a financial aspect: the biggest cutbacks in the financial perspective, as agreed by the council, occurred in the field of trans-european energy networks.
energy security also constitutes one of the cornerstones of the neighbourhood policy.
close cooperation in the energy security field is indispensable and the most effective confidence-building measure, both within the european union as well as between the union and its neighbours.
i would like to say to mrs harms that sustainability is of course a very important issue in the european union, and i would remind her that the sustainability strategy is to be reviewed by mid-2006.
i can assure you that sustainability is of course also an important part of all the efforts of the council and the commission.
when we talk about growth in europe in the 21st century, we cannot talk about any other growth than sustainable growth, which is socially acceptable and ecologically responsible.
when the commission speaks of growth, it speaks of sustainable growth.
this includes eco-innovation, this includes energy efficiency, this includes competition for better quality, but not competition for lower social standards, lower environmental standards or lower wages.
the aim is indeed - as one speaker has said - to strengthen the authority of the international atomic energy agency and to promote the implementation of the many relevant resolutions adopted on this subject.
the aid we are prepared to give, namely humanitarian aid, can also only be given in a peaceful environment.
all sides must now contribute to this peaceful environment.
these include the german e.on bid to take over the spanish endesa, the merger of the french gas giant gaz de france and the international oil and energy group suez based in italy, and more recently the polish government's blocking of the merger of banks pekao s.a. and bph, which is the result of the merger of the german hvb group and the italian unicredito.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr antonios trakatellis on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme of community action in the field of health and consumer protection covering the period 2007 to 2013 health aspects (com (2005) 0115 - c6-0097/2005 - 2005/0042a (cod)) (a6-0030/2006).
there is a growing number of genetically modified, unwanted and potentially harmful foods on the eu market, both for human health and for our environment.
the chemicals in agriculture, the pollution of soil, water, air, and many food products are not good for man.
economic dependence is exacerbated by the domination of key industries by foreign capital, which has recently further degraded the environment.
we support the resolution which calls for the perpetrators of crimes to be brought to justice, but it would be more important to improve the general situation of the african population, enabling sustainable development, which seems difficult to achieve in the light of the above conditions.
the year 2006 brought the energy supply problems to the attention of europeans.
europe needs a common energy policy now more than ever.
first of all, i would like to thank the comments which, in general, were in favour of our programme - there is, of course, a substantive issue here which i will mention shortly, namely the question of the financial perspective - but, in general, i think i can say that there is an identification with the commission's objectives for 2007. in concrete terms, mr watson asked why we put the objectives of energy conservation and environmental protection in the solidarity chapter and not in the prosperity chapter.
it could and should certainly be in the prosperity chapter, but we put it in the solidarity chapter precisely to highlight its greater relevance, since it is a solidarity with future generations: the fight for a clean environment and the fight for sustainable development have a direct bearing on our entire future.
this is why we have put environmental issues in the solidarity chapter of the presentation.
another issue raised by mrs frassoni was the lack of reference to transport in the context of energy policy.
i am sorry, but on page 11 of the english version of the green paper it says that we propose to the member states, as possible actions, and i read: 'a major effort to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, and in particular to rapidly improve urban public transport in europe's major cities' of course this is just a green book, it's for reference, but there's this line.
we consider the transport sector to be crucial in terms of energy efficiency; i would like to see that there is no doubt about that.
on the question of nuclear energy, mr swoboda, our position is very clear: we respect the principle of subsidiarity.
let me tell you that president putin, despite russia's great natural wealth in terms of oil and gas, has also made the development of nuclear energy in the future a high priority for russia.
we, the european commission, are not taking a position on this matter in the sense of being for or against nuclear energy, what we are defending is the principle of each member state, in its energy mix, finding forms of sustainable energy in the long term, respecting the principle of subsidiarity also in this area.
i am very happy to have the opportunity to tell all the people in the uk that church organ pipes are not covered by the directive on electronic and electrical waste.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council by mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0007/2006 - b6-0009/2006).
mr president, energy, as we have recently witnessed, is also sometimes treated as a weapon for exerting political influence by states which enjoy a quasi-monopolistic position, as in the russia/ukraine case.
that is what really triggered this sudden interest in energy policy.
it is essential for the eu to develop a true external security policy dimension in relation to gas and oil deliveries, which is distinct from energy policies sensu stricto.
the question is, what added value can the eu offer in the event of politically motivated cuts in energy supplies?
we must extend this solidarity principle to problems related to energy supply shortages caused by political action.
what is needed is cooperation and solidarity, not competition among member states in securing external energy supplies, as happens today.
the forthcoming spring council should, above all, consider three issues of utmost importance: first, mutual assistance among member states in case of energy supply cuts; second, mutual consultation mechanisms among member states for major gas and delivery contracts; and third, the inclusion of an energy security clause in all eu treaties with third countries, which are either a source of energy or a transit country.
an energy security clause should impose an obligation to follow a certain code of conduct and to promise not to use energy delivery as an instrument of political pressure.
the security of supply in the european union is diminishing with each month of inevitable increase in dependence on imported energy.
their role in the european energy market should be kept within safe limits.
its supply has been limited recently by climatic conditions in siberia, by the lack of security for pipelines in the south of the country, and by the government's unbridled use of energy as a tool of political pressure against its western-oriented neighbors.
for this reason, energy cooperation cannot be closed to countries outside the union.
it is outside the union that we have energy problems.
therefore, not only energy policy but also trans-european networks should extend beyond the borders of the union.
the enhanced neighbourhood policy should therefore be enriched by an energy aspect.
the polish proposal for an energy pact based on solidarity and boldly going beyond the borders of the union should therefore be discussed more seriously at the forthcoming summit.
energy security is primarily a matter of foreign and defence policy.
to pretend that the key to providing it is new energy sources or restrictions imposed on industry in the form of, say, climate agreements, is naive.
renewable energy will continue to be an expensive addition to our energy supply for a long time to come, and the excessive restrictions on european industry, often backed by questionable scientific evidence, are a factor limiting our competitiveness.
poland is particularly vulnerable to the policy of using natural gas and oil supplies to our country as a tool of political influence by the main supplier of these energy resources, namely russia.
hence the polish government's initiative, presented in the forums of the european institutions, to introduce a solution to energy security that can be described as 'one for all, all for one', i.e.
while this will significantly improve germany's energy security in the future, it is unfortunately detrimental to the economic interests and energy security of countries such as poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia and non-eu countries such as ukraine.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
energy crises are always caused by the lack of supply of two energy sources to europe: gas and oil.
firstly, more of europe's own energy sources.
more energy ownership means research and applications, higher energy efficiency and renewable energy, as the most important.
nuclear energy is also a necessity, especially with the threat of a greenhouse effect.
we can become more united and secure, and we have the basis for a common energy policy for the european union.
the union's energy policy has two dimensions: external, geopolitical and internal, as energy security also means the rationalisation of energy use.
europe must now manage its energy potential and improve its use by eliminating thermodynamic imperfections: for example, by thermomodernising buildings, but not only; by modernising and expanding the use of distributed heat and power sources, especially in the new countries of the european union, where there is a huge potential for cogeneration and wasted energy; by making prudent use of renewable sources, especially biomass, the use of which for electricity generation, however, i consider to be somewhat ambiguous.
the energy-intensive nature of national income needs to be further reduced, and this must also be reflected in customs policy.
therefore, it is not understandable to maintain a 6% duty on highly energy-intensive primary aluminium.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's energy supply is not affected by the price pressure.
we can't afford to waste another week.
this type of support will allow us to combine contacts with middle-ranking officials to reduce the self-isolation of belarus; cooperation with ngos; and support directly benefiting the population, for example in the health sector, the environment or in the chernobyl-affected area.
the production of biomass, and especially biofuels, will not only improve the environment, not only increase employment in rural areas, but also save human dignity by raising the income of entire families.
the farmers have protected us from hunger, but now they are saving us from the energy crisis and breathing new life into the common agricultural policy.
the year 2006 will be particularly challenging, with a number of key issues to be addressed: firstly, the biofuel targets in the context of the review of the biofuels directive; secondly, the possibility of increasing the blend of biofuels into conventional fuels – work is already under way to review the fuel quality directive; and thirdly, the energy crop regime, which we will also review this year.
we will also continue to find ways of encouraging the enormous economic, social and environmental potential of non-food applications, particularly those highlighted in the report.
i firmly believe that the whole economy stands to gain from the contribution which renewable bio-resources can make to ensuring a sustainable future for europe.
looking at the dispute over european energy policy between the council and the european parliament, the question arises: is the union an institution to be painted, or to act on the surface, or to be a theatre of fiction?
the common european energy policy, while retaining the sovereignty of the individual member states, must be a new quality.
the debate on the european coordinator and the european priority projects is really a conflict of vision, whether european energy policy is to be a reality or just a paper document.
thirdly, in the face of far-reaching reductions in agricultural duties, only products that are not linked to economic, environmental and social dumping practices should have free access to the union market, and agricultural products that are produced under conditions that violate human rights and international environmental and animal protection agreements should be subject to additional financial burdens or special safeguard clauses.
flexible labour markets, a business-friendly environment, support for education, training, research, but the commission has been repeating these demands for years, with little effect.
we cannot maintain a high environmental standard, we cannot maintain a high social standard and we cannot maintain a high standard of living unless we have a strong and sustainable economic foundation for it.
their greater involvement in the 'european capital of culture' celebrations gives them a unique opportunity to tap into the incredible energy of the 'young democracies'.
the problems of many sectors of the economy, such as agriculture, simply need to be dealt with as urgently as energy and other issues, if the european economy is to continue to develop successfully.
first, ukraine can support the eu's energy policy because it has its own natural gas resources, it has the largest natural gas reserves in europe, and we can import gas and oil from the caspian sea through its territory independently of other countries.
these are major projects aimed at bringing the different modes of transport into balance and contributing to a sustainable transport system in the european union.
other health-destroying agents, such as carbon monoxide, benzene, hydrocarbons, and other chemicals, are also to be considered.
i hope that in the european parliament there will be people who can take care of the well-being of the natural environment in poland, as well as the health of thousands of citizens in poland.
secondly, the court's findings after the audit often fail to answer the most important questions as regards the assessment of the rationality of the implementation of the budget , such as: what is the purpose of the funds, whether the funds actually achieve the objectives pursued, whether there is no abuse in their expenditure and, finally, whether there is no waste of funds.
at the end of the day it is competition that makes the climate, not state aid.
after general and structural criteria, general political climate, general business environment, red tape, regulation, taxation, closeness to customers, availability of labour, a skilled labour force, availability of resources, availability of the infrastructure: at the end of the list there is sometimes the state aid argument.
the commission will provide separate notification of the guidelines on aid to environmental protection next year and, in this context, equal innovation will get my full attention.
in our opinion, to understand solidarity in energy matters as submission and subordination together with the forced adoption of the euro-constitution is an economic and political intimidation all too familiar to poles from the period of soviet occupation.
the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on - recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on nutrition and health claims made on foods [09858/3/2005 - c6-0018/2006 - 2003/0165 (cod) ] (rapporteur: adriana poli bortone) (a6-0122/2006) and- recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods [09858/3/2005 - c6-0018/2006 - 2003/0165 (cod) ] (rapporteur: adriana poli bortone) (a6-0122/2006) and- draft report on the second reading on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods [09858/37/2005 - c6-0017/06 (cod) ] (a7-026/2006) (director: karele schein) (special rapporteur) (co)
mr. chairman, please!
finally, i am pleased that we see an opportunity for new jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises and that we are moving towards the sustainability of industrial and spatial transport.
high energy prices, instability in fuel markets and persistent current account surpluses in most asian countries have undermined the confidence of many companies in europe.
today, after the commissioner and the minister have spoken, we can say that we have, through interinstitutional agreements, a guarantee of a new separate instrument for human rights and democracy, which would be flexible enough to pursue our objectives in a legally and politically hostile environment, and we know that we often encounter such situations.
mr president, before answering the questions put to me, i would like to start by explaining the global approach towards the energy community.
we know, and there is some consensus, that the two main routes for enhancing energy security in the european union are diversification and the strengthening of market forces.
extensions of the eu’s own market to include our neighbours would gradually create around the eu a shared regulatory area with common trade, transit and environmental rules.
the disintegration of the former yugoslav energy system has brought havoc to the regional market, by breaking electricity connections, disrupting trade routes and forcing the system to work – on a chronic basis – far beyond its capacity.
within ten years we have gone from war to cooperative management of the most essential sector of the economy: energy.
we have also addressed environmental and social issues in our debate.
so the creation of the energy community for south-east europe clearly responds to the needs of the region and of the whole eu.
firstly, the energy community treaty provides for a procedure ensuring cooperation and mutual assistance of the parties in the event of disruption of gas or electricity supply affecting a party.
one example is the recent gas crisis between russia and ukraine, but also, for instance, the blackout in italy in 2003, which demonstrated the need for solidarity among european countries, and the importance and the benefits that such a solidarity clause could have in the energy sector.
pursuant to the draft conclusion decision, the positions that can be taken by the european community under title iv of the energy community treaty, providing for the creation of a single energy market between the european community and the countries of south-east europe and containing the mutual assistance clause, have to be inspired by the existing acquis communautaire.
let me highlight, in that regard, that decisions of the energy community on mutual assistance have to be taken by unanimity so that the european community will have a veto on all decisions to be adopted.
secondly, let me stress that, through its proposal to the council, the commission has steadily acted in favour of an increased role of parliament as regards the ratification of the energy community treaty.
in this regard, once the treaty has entered into force, i consider it of utmost importance that parliament be fully informed in advance of important decisions to be adopted by the energy community.
to this effect, parliament will be informed in advance of each semi-annual ministerial council of the european energy community.
i have also instructed my services to ensure that parliament is informed in advance of the european community position to be taken before the institutions of the energy community on important issues and that it has full access to the energy community’s documents.
there are no restrictions on official documents of the energy community and all policy documents are placed on the energy community website.
in addition, as provided for in the treaty, the energy community’s ministerial council will, on an annual basis, submit a report on the activities of the energy community to the european parliament and all other national parliaments involved, as the president-in-office mentioned.
in line with the proposed conclusion decisions, the commission will further submit to parliament, every three years, a report on the energy community.
i would also like to mention the issues referred to by the honourable member with regard to kozloduy, because i would like to separate this issue from the energy community treaty.
the energy chapter with bulgaria was closed in 2002 and both sides have agreed to close that chapter on the basis that units 3 and 4 of kozloduy will be closed on the grounds of safety requirements.
today, after the january conflict, we know that energy security is not just a problem for individual eu countries and not just for the eu as a whole.
the energy community treaty is the right step along this path.
it provides for an integrated gas and energy market in parts of europe, encourages investment and increases the security of gas supply to the union.
it shows that energy security requires a new approach also to the eu's foreign policy.
it is a good legal instrument for regulating energy relations also with ukraine, which intends to accede to the treaty.
the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of secure energy supplies based on harmonious cooperation between the member states, which requires the legislative solutions announced by the commission earlier this year.
firstly: enhancing the attractiveness of member states, regions and cities by improving accessibility, ensuring adequate quality and level of services, and preserving their environmental potential.
it is good that the european parliament is dealing with natural disasters and their consequences for the environment - and what i particularly appreciate - also for agriculture.
president poettering, please do not use blackmail: either energy policy with a constitutional treaty or nothing.
i am encouraged to be able to address at the forthcoming summit a number of issues relating to our common future, including cooperation to promote democracy and human rights, freedom and prosperity in the world, but also issues relating to the global challenges we face: climate change, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and energy security, which is a subject of growing concern on both sides of the atlantic and which has also been the subject of intensive work in the council this half-year; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
but these points must not overshadow what binds us together, the depth and sustainability of our shared values and also the work we do on the issues that are important to us in the world.
mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this excellent debate on a central and essential relationship that will indeed focus on how much further our cooperation can grow on foreign policy and democracy promotion, on increased cooperation in relation to energy, and on the enhancement of growth and competitiveness in our economies.
as to the environment, we want to relaunch our dialogue with the us, notably by relaunching the high-level dialogue on the environment, including the issue of climate change.
our cooperation on energy will also touch on climate change issues from the standpoint of energy efficiency.
it is necessary to take steps towards the development of a common strategy for the security of energy and raw materials supply through diversification of sources of supply, production and transport and the strengthening of the policy dialogue on renewable energy sources.
the problem in question is the rational use of energy which, once released from primary sources, can be converted into useful work or another form of energy or used irrationally in open systems.
so how can we use energy more rationally to save that 20 to 30 percent?
firstly, it is necessary to invest in comprehensive thermal modernisation of buildings and modernisation of the way in which heat is produced and supplied, as well as in waste heat recovery facilities, and secondly, to invest in the decommissioning of old, small, obsolete local boilers and to connect housing estates - especially in new countries where such blocks are in large cities - to the heating networks powered by modern, optimally sized cogeneration plants.
we feel that in order to attain the millennium development goals, we have to create a trade environment in which developing countries have real access to the markets of developed countries.
we must link them to the economic and social climate in recipient countries and they must be aimed at improving democratic governance.
so for example, the environmental problem, the problem that was mentioned, the zoning issues, the vocational qualifications issue, the insurance issue and a whole series of issues related to the unreliability of insurance companies.
the main sources of water pollution are poor farming practices, poor infrastructure, sewage systems, rural wastewater treatment plants, as well as brown and hard coal mining, and the issue of high salt water flow.
annex position of the commission
the next item is the report drawn up by mr richard seeber on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment and management of flood risks (com ((2006) 0015 - c6-0020/2006 - 2006/0005 ((cod))) (a6-0182/2006).
this should include the costs of economic damage, farm flooding, road, environmental damage due to chemical pollution, flooding of landfills, soil erosion.
however, ecological and environmental effects should be taken into account.
so there is a need to give serious thought to ways of rebuilding flood-damaged areas in a way that preserves the ecological balance rather than destroys it.
this is all the more so as floods are and will be the most frequent type of natural disaster due to climate change, but they can also occur as a result of the opening of water reservoirs by neighbouring countries.
a delayed response, or lack thereof, can cause the collected rivers to overflow, causing environmental damage, property damage, and even death.
however, a few metres further on, close to the eu border, in belarus or ukraine, the flooding of further human settlements and industrial plants can be very violent, completely uncontrolled and lead to environmental hazards.
this is a real danger of human and economic loss, and pollution of my country's environment, but also of other countries bordering on it.
floods and the risk management measures applied to deal with them have two aspects: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not damaged.
the commission therefore agrees with the rapporteur that it is important to strike the right balance between flood risk management measures and environmental protection, while maintaining adequate references to the water framework directive.
the commission therefore accepts the following amendments: amendment no 36 on the assessment of existing artificial flood protection infrastructure, amendment no 60 on the economic and environmental assessment of flood management measures and amendment no 74 on the priority of measures for the sustainable management of flood risk.
as regards the impact of climate change, the commission agrees that this should be taken into account, in particular when reviewing flood risk assessments.
any attempt to limit the scope of the directive to national water catchment areas would create discriminatory situations and set an undesirable precedent in the environmental policy of the european union.
it is therefore right that the european commission has put forward a communication on this matter and that the european parliament adopted a resolution on 8 september 2005 on new prospects and new challenges for sustainable european tourism.
together, we are making the seventh framework programme a programme for boosting growth and jobs, for promoting a sustainable and healthy europe.
the cooperation programme will bring together our best talents from across europe to research and develop and find answers on economic opportunities and societal challenges, for example in the areas of health and energy.
i wholeheartedly thank mr chichester, chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, the rapporteur, mr buzek, the shadow rapporteurs and all other members of parliament who made this possible.
i would like to thank the coordinators and advisers of the political groups, the advisers and the officials of the committee on industry, research and energy.
people, the european research council, basic research, small and medium-sized enterprises, energy and health.
as for the euratom part, the committee on industry, energy and research has accepted the european commission's proposal with a clear majority.
two thematic priorities: health no doubt, and energy for europe clean, safe, secure; we are short of oil and gas.
we absolutely must focus on renewable energy, clean coal technologies and nuclear energy.
such controversial issues include, inter alia, the policy towards belarus, moldova and ukraine, the situation in russia itself, especially respect for human rights, and above all energy policy.
the court held that the precise definition of the legal basis of a measure must refer to the object and content of the measure itself, and therefore the decision on environmental protection, which wrongly identified the basis as the third pillar rather than the first, was annulled.
the council's framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law was intended to respond to the worrying increase in environmental crime, and this intention is to be commended.
the second aspect of the dispute concerns the legal basis relied on by the council in adopting the contested decision, wrongly relying on pillar iii, whereas the matter in question does not fall within pillar iii but within the community's competence in the field of environmental protection.
moreover, by choosing the wrong legal basis, the council has deprived the european parliament of any influence on matters relating to environmental protection, which are clearly of a community nature and fall within its competence.
we declare a common interest in energy, and yet we pursue an extremely selfish policy on this matter every day.
today, we must say very clearly: this is no longer sustainable.
the behaviour of kiev during the energy blackmail in december, its solidarity with moldova, for example in its strict control of transnistria, and its good relations with georgia show that ukraine can be an important stabilizer of the region and a guarantor of the development of democracy.
we can cite several of these results, and i am pleased with the energy that the austrian presidency is putting into achieving concrete results.
(applause) the same is true for energy.
today there is a consensus on the need for a common energy policy, a common strategy.
that is why, as mr goebbels and mrs frassoni have said, amongst others, it is important to achieve concrete results in energy efficiency, to have programmes for renewable energy, in order to be able to put the objectives of the green paper on safe and competitive sustainable energy into practice.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the sustainable development strategy addressed to mr anders wijkman, mr john bowis and mr karel-heinz florenz in the g20/g20/uem/verts/verts/u14/u14/u14/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16
on behalf of the uen group.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
however, further action is needed to: achieve the objectives set out in the revised lisbon strategy; commit to growth and jobs; strengthen and increase industrial competitiveness; improve the business environment; and commit to supporting the social europe project.
the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the best engine for economies, cannot be underestimated, and it is therefore gratifying that the commission has also noted the need to create the best possible environment for this type of activity.
however, further action is needed to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, namely to increase employment, increase industrial competitiveness and improve the business environment, and, very importantly, to promote the so-called social europe.
the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by aviation is estimated to reach 5% in 2050 (compared to 2% in 2000).
efforts should be made to reduce this negative environmental impact, while maintaining the principle of competitiveness in the face of the growing market for low-cost airlines, which are extremely popular in europe.
however, the main emphasis should be on emissions trading and the establishment of an appropriate system for its implementation.
in its guidelines, parliament has placed particular emphasis on issues of importance to citizens and civil society, such as partnership, respect for environmental values and the participation of people with disabilities in the implementation of programmes.
we have jointly reinforced the role of ngos, local and civil society and the environmental partners in our policy.
with your support we have also strengthened the provisions on non-discrimination and sustainable development.
i am convinced that this priority has a very important role to play in improving the efficiency of public administration, thereby also increasing competitiveness, strengthening sustainable job creation and promoting social inclusion.
the fund will continue to support projects that directly address discrimination in the workplace, this can be linked to the priority of strengthening the social inclusion of disadvantaged citizens, especially with regard to their sustainable participation in employment.
we need more sustainable, environmentally sound growth, and we need more and better jobs - otherwise the social face of europe will become a cold and cynical face, a face that does not fit our european idea of life.
i criticize those who put short-term profit over the sustainable solution.
how does the eu's policy on business relate to the fundamental principles on which the european union is built, such as european solidarity, equal opportunities, sustainable development and human rights?
the new ten strongly support the need to create an increasingly attractive environment for modern research centres in europe.
the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr esko seppänen on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a council directive on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste and spent fuel (com ((2005) 0673 - c6-0031/2006 - 2005/0272 (cns)) (a6-0174/2006).
i should like to thank mr seppänen again for his excellent report, which has the support of a strong majority in the committee on industry, research and energy.
concerning the issue of the prohibition of any export of radioactive waste and spent fuel out of the community, i would recall article 13(1)(c) of the proposed directive, which further prohibits exports of radioactive waste and spent fuel to countries that do not possess the necessary administrative and technical capacity for safely managing the spent fuel or radioactive waste.
i strongly believe that we need as much transparency as possible when we deal with energy issues.
that also applies to nuclear energy.
first, on the use by russia of energy supplies as a tool for political influence both on the member states of the union and on third countries.
for the same reason, it is particularly important to strengthen cooperation in the field of the common eastern policy and the common energy policy.
the issue of diversification of energy sources and supply routes is of paramount importance for europe's energy security.
investment in renewable energy and energy saving is necessary but not sufficient to meet the growing demand.
europe must be politically and financially committed to projects to find new sources of energy and to pursue a common policy of solidarity with suppliers.
the request to extend the committee's work for another six months is a waste of taxpayers' money.
we have many worrying signs in this regard, we hear about waste and corruption in their allocation.
fair trade is one of the key tools, in my view, to enhance sustainable development and to equip us better to fight poverty in the world, and as a concept it is developing fast.
it is gaining in currency and appeal with public opinion, and helps to raise public awareness about all the issues that are involved in sustainability.
we should fully use the potential of all credible initiatives to support sustainability.
does it help, does it aid, does it take forward sustainability?
i will ask my services to look at how sustainability is enhanced by different certification and assurance schemes, including fair trade.
fair trade can also help by promoting sustainable development.
i would also like to ask for a favourable climate for the concept of public aid for the shipbuilding industry in poland, which was undergoing a very strong transformation.
the carbon tax should be included in the cost of fuel, thus favouring low-polluting cars.
the commission proposal has two objectives: to improve the functioning of the internal market and to implement the community strategy for reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars.
in order to be consistent with the union's environmental objectives and the kyoto protocol, co2 emissions should be significantly reduced to reach the community target of 120 grams of co2 per kilometre, and tax measures are a strong incentive for consumers.
a tax system where the amount of the registration tax is linked to co2 emissions is the right direction.
however, the emissions of cars are a function of the amount of fuel they burn, or mileage, and the quality of the gasoline, and in general a function of time.
moreover, the law imposes an obligation to pay the tax in advance, whereas the damage, or pollution, is caused in the distant future.
consideration should be given to introducing an environmental tax on fuel prices and to allocating the revenue thus obtained to research into new technologies and cleaner fuels.
as climate change continues, we are seeing more and more weather anomalies, causing serious damage to nature, agriculture and the wider human environment.
the vast amount of knowledge that has been accumulated so far is poorly correlated with the primary environmental causes of healthy personality development, which include a healthy and loving, preferably full and large family, where the expected and loving children learn to live together and for others.
the council also proposed two new pilot projects for this sub-heading, one on the learning triangle and the other on the union's own energy security.
first, chinese producers do not include in the cost of production, inter alia, social security contributions for workers and environmental costs.
the rapporteur, the spiritus movens of the ecological debate, summarises the experience gained so far, mainly by the fao.
the most visible environmental effects can be achieved in aquaculture, where labelling is simply easier to implement.
the preservation of these values of different cultures, alongside the beauty of the landscape and the natural environment of man, is an opportunity for the intellectual development of people and a better understanding of the world around us, an opportunity for understanding, mutual respect and natural integration through values, not the force of economic and cultural domination.
i too would like to refer to the ecological disaster that occurred on the night of 19 to 20 august this year when a greek ship, commissioned by the netherlands, unloaded 400 tonnes of refinery waste.
i have one minute to comment, but i would point out that the directive on air quality in europe, with amendments that significantly tighten the standards, treats the newly admitted countries on an equal footing with the 15 countries of the 'old union' that have long-standing strategies to reduce emissions.
according to estimates by the polish ministry of the environment, in order to meet the requirements of the directives, we need an investment of over pln 50 billion, which would also be accompanied by a significant increase in social and economic costs.
increasing living costs in poorer social groups could negate the benefits of improved air quality by reducing living standards through malnutrition, lack of access to treatment, hygiene and other environmental factors that contribute to good health.
as a closing remark, i would like to restate the importance of continued action to tackle air pollution.
the adverse health impacts, lost economic productivity and damage to environmental quality are still much too great.
we will be reviewing the strategy to see what progress has been made and how much further we can get towards the objectives of the sixth environmental action programme.
i understand the concern expressed by those who want to see more community pollution abatement measures so that the strategy’s objective and air quality standards can be met.
the key to ensuring compliance with both daily and annual limits is to undertake good and timely air quality assessments and to take the necessary steps to reduce emissions.
our modelling work, which underpins the thematic strategy and the air quality proposal, shows that greater health improvements can be obtained by allowing the member states to choose where to reduce pollution levels.
the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. annex position of the commission
the next item is the report drawn up by mr gyula hegy on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the thematic strategy on the urban environment (a6-0233/2006).
this strategy is an important step towards more sustainable urban development.
it is a response to the sixth environmental action programme and a key contribution to improving the everyday lives of europe’s citizens.
let us not waste this pro-european potential in europe!
for example, they draw attention to the importance of partnership (recital 16), to the contribution of infrastructure to convergence (recital 11), to equality of opportunity and the fight against discrimination (recital 15), to the importance of development that is sustainable in environmental terms (recital 14), to territorial cohesion and to the urban dimension (recital 12).
it is also very important to pay particular attention to the urban dimension, as cities and urban agglomerations are the ones most often confronted with problems such as crime, social exclusion, environmental pollution and congestion.
regarding the environment, for instance, last year india hosted the first eu-india forum on waste management, which was followed by various visits by and meetings of the working party on that issue.
the holding of the second environment forum is under discussion.
for the european union, which wants to maintain its place at the forefront of the world stage, with its breathing difficulties today, should not the most important partner and market be the country of a billion people, with a sustainable economic growth rate of 7%, and 50% of the population under the age of 20?
it's not there because a few countries have imagined russia as a strategic partner, which has over 150 million people, and the average age is approaching 50, but it can effectively blackmail europe by cutting off gas and energy.
particularly neglected are transport and energy investments, which are holding back development and could become attractive areas for foreign investment.
for the european union, the purpose of global governance is to make possible development that is socially, economically and environmentally sustainable.
that is why we wish to promote policies that provide sustainable responses to gender-based issues, whether they are countries’ domestic policies in some cases backed by international aid, common policies such as those forming the building blocks of the european union, or international commitments.
the european commission believes that clear social conditions underpin sustainable productivity growth and promote the efficient production of high-quality goods and services generating a net added value.
since 1998 the ec has also been granting trade preferences under the generalised system of preferences, special incentive arrangements to those developing countries that assure the respect of the core labour rights as defined by the ilo and comply with international recognised standards on sustainable forest management.
in the framework of the new gsp scheme, adopted on 27 june 2005 by the council, a gsp-plus initiative for sustainable development provides additional tariff preferences for countries that have signed and effectively implemented un and ilo conventions on human rights and labour rights, including those on gender equality.
the european commission will also look into the potential for using decent work indicators as part of trade sustainability impact assessments.
the commission has done everything possible to help the sector, taking into account the parameters of community legislation and the need to ensure that the aid actually contributes to fishing sustainability.
beyond the rescue and restructuring of fishing firms in difficulty, we must create in the long term an environment that is conducive to their sustainable success.
the communication therefore highlights some policy areas that i want to develop in the coming years to create this more favourable environment.
they demonstrate how much we all strive to ensure a sustainable and healthy future for the fishing sector.
the more moderate views are reflected in amendments relating to long-term maritime policy, such as amendments 3 and 5. they do not conceal the need to maintain a balance between sustainable income and taxes on fisheries undertakings and a certain form and value of social assistance.
this principle should apply not only to long-term measures to promote sustainable fisheries but also to short-term measures such as the replacement of engines and fishing gear.
the european union needs to intervene to put the world on a sustainable development path.
like agriculture, we are very much dependent on nature, so we need to understand the specific nature of fisheries and look at the wider ecosystem to get it out of the crisis.
organic food production is produced in a clean and safe environment, free of antibiotics, growth hormones and genetically modified organisms.
the next item is the report by miloslav ransdorf, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on nanoscience and nanotechnology: an action plan for europe 2005-09 [2006/2004 (ini) ] (a6-0216/2006).
for example, new medical treatments are being developed for severe diseases such as brain tumours and alzheimer’s disease; it is helping the environment through more efficient catalysts, better batteries and more efficient light sources; and smaller, lighter and better-performing materials, components and systems are being created.
but nanotechnology could also make a huge contribution to major global challenges such as how to tackle threats to the environment, how to make better use of resources and create less waste, and how to improve energy generation technologies.
the commission has proposed expanding funding for nanotechnology, with a new emphasis on developing infrastructures and projects assessing the risk of nanotechnology for humans and the environment.
what is fundamental is to have a high level of public health, safety, environmental and consumer protection.
to do that, in europe we need to identify the safety concerns, collect data for a health and environmental impact assessment of the product, and act at the earliest possible stage through adjustments, where necessary, of risk assessment procedures for nanotechnology.
it is equally important that it stresses the importance of creating the right climate for innovation in europe as well as emphasising the importance of ‘speaking with one voice’ internationally in this highly promising research area.
for the production of pharmaceuticals or cosmetics, energy, for fuel cells and nanoporous hydrogen absorbers, as well as efficient solar batteries, itc techniques using optical and spin phenomena to further compress blue laser-readable information, biotechnology, including dna testing and bioinformatics systems.
at the same time, unfortunately, there can be a permanent environmental contamination, a permanent air pollution, aerosol, which is difficult to monitor.
and thirdly, we must urgently develop a methodology to study the current pollution, i repeat, the current non-nanotechnology pollution, of the atmosphere with nanoparticles.
who knows if the cancer epidemic is not linked to the elusive and perhaps increasing presence of persistent nanoaerosols in our environment from various sources.
at the same time, they do not accept waste, inefficiency, opacity, and appearances.
these criteria include, among others, the precise definition of what is patentable, of course as far as possible, the full independence of the judiciary and the full impartiality of the judges who will rule on the protection and validity of patents, and the determination of the sustainable and enforceable costs of protecting patent rights.
the finnish presidency declares its commitment to the eu-russia energy partnership.
russia is skillfully exploiting its monopoly position in the european energy market.
so far, they have not even succeeded in getting russia to ratify the european energy charter, the eu's basic energy market document.
the meeting of our leaders with president putin will be an opportunity to raise the issue of energy security, to express our highest concerns, and i would like to emphasize, our highest concerns about the state of russian democracy and human rights in this country.
first, the time has come to shape a common european energy policy - a project to build european policy in heavy industry after the second world war.
i would like to mention two other issues and congratulate the finnish presidency on the preparation of two subjects for the informal summit in lahti, namely energy and innovation.
in energy we need a common policy, both within the union to create a common energy market and outside, for example, joint european negotiations with our oil and gas selling partners.
it is very important that we do this with our common foreign policy on energy, and it will be a great step towards a common foreign policy in general.
but there is another aspect of our foreign affairs in terms of energy: the ukrainian pipelines are in a bad state today, and this is the last window through which oil and gas can flow to us from the east independently of gazprom.
i cannot imagine that a cooperation agreement between the european union and moscow could be signed without an explanation of this crime and without bringing to justice its perpetrators and sponsors, either because the european union puts its commitment to freedom, civil liberties and human rights first or because of economic and energy interests.
governments in both china and vietnam have unfairly supported their producers through tax breaks, free land grants, or by not paying full production costs, for example by not charging for environmental benefits.
in reply to a question i put to director mingarelli, which was intended to reassure the new member states that the proposed agreement with russia would not jeopardise their energy security and that the agreement would not be concluded in the same style as the one concerning the construction of the northern gas pipeline, i.e.
an agreement would also create a more transparent and stable business environment for the eu and mercosur companies.
the committee on development stresses the need to strengthen support for social development, education, reducing social inequalities, more sustainable income distribution and poverty reduction.
we also believe that it is worth supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, sustainable agriculture and tourism, and infrastructure investment while protecting the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment by the member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i thank president borrell for saying that the union will not trade human rights for energy.
the european union's priority is to create a common energy market that is the most efficient, secure and competitive.
however, it should be borne in mind that the european union's energy policy is not limited to the energy sector, and the three objectives of energy policy are to ensure energy security, to ensure competitiveness, to protect the environment and, in particular, to combat climate change.
as is well known, the construction of the internal energy market is achieved indirectly by the harmonisation of the laws of the member states and directly by the liberalisation of national energy markets.
it is therefore all the more gratifying that, for the first time in many years, the european union countries at the last summit in lahti tried to speak with one voice about energy cooperation with russia, without being misled by the vision of the benefits that certain european union countries could derive from privileged contacts with russia.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a financial instrument for the environment (life+) (06284/1/2006 - c6-0226/2006 - 2004/0218 (cod)) (rapporteur: marie anne isler béguin) (a6-0288/2006) - debate on the oral question to the commission on the financing of the natura 2000 network addressed by karl-heinz florenza on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0113/2006 - b6-0441/2006).
we unanimously agreed that this financial instrument does not meet the environmental challenges.
the financial arrangements with the council and the commission did not translate into an environmental budget for the next seven years.
the dispute between mrs sinnott and the majority of the member states is a bit abstract in my view, because i would actually have a clearer conscience in voting on this report if i were sure that the money allocated to individual countries would go to environmental projects.
the problem is that they go to staff, not to environmental projects.
i am pleased to say that an excellent climate of cooperation between our institutions characterised the whole legislative process and brought us to a very satisfactory compromise.
the 2007 budget is wrong because it also fails to address the new challenges facing the societies and economies of the member states, namely the destabilisation of the raw materials market, including the sharp rise in energy prices, and secondly, and particularly importantly, the massive labour migration from the newly admitted countries to the old union countries and the associated rapidly increasing social and economic costs in the poor countries.
the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the report drawn up by mr carla schlyter on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on restrictions on the marketing and use of perfluorooctane sulphonates (amending council directive 76/769/eec) (com (2005) 0618 - c6-0418/2005 - 2005/0244 (cod)) (a6-0251/2006)
vice-president of the commission.
all i can say today is this: the german authorities' investigations are not yet complete, but i have the strong impression that we are dealing with a case of environmental crime.
toxic substances have been released into the environment in violation of existing legislation.
i do not accept the argument that we have to accept the risk of highly toxic substances in our environment because there has been investment.
in such a situation, the only choice is to protect people and the environment unconditionally from risks that are not inevitable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental legislation is properly applied.
i thank president borrell for his important words to president putin in lahti: 'we will not trade human rights for energy!'
it is already known that the lahti summit did not lead to any breakthrough or even significant progress in the talks with russia on energy cooperation, and that the european union, contrary to its declarations, did not appear as a unified force with which russia would have to deal seriously.
this was also interpreted as a call for unity in the european union in the field of energy policy.
only with such a firm, decisive stance towards russia can we hope for success in the negotiations on europe's energy security.
i am convinced that this city and the region of which it is the capital, with its strong and innovative academic environment, its huge number of over one hundred thousand students, ambitious and talented young people and numerous new investments in industrial development, is well suited to this purpose.
it uses trickery, a policy of issuing russian passports, espionage, energy blackmail to weaken and deprive its independent neighbors, georgia and moldova, of parts of their territory.
the embargo on agricultural imports and energy problems are clearly linked to moldova's decision to join the european union.
i must confess that we could not have given the european economy the monetary and financial environment it deserves without the credibility that this principle of independence gives us, which is recognized by your parliament, by the whole world and by all market participants everywhere in the world.
the fact that we are credible and that our inflation expectations are in line with our definition of price stability provides a particularly favourable financial environment for the european economy.
price stability is a necessary condition for sustainable growth and for the creation of sustainable jobs.
it told the truth about the situation in tibet, about the degradation of the environment, about the degradation of tibetan culture.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for what you said to president putin in your own language: 'we do not trade energy for human rights'.
the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by marie-noëlle lienemann, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environmental policy (marine strategy directive) (com (2005) 0505 - c6-0346/2005 - 2005/0211 (cod)) (a6-0373/2006) - the report drawn up by aldis kušķis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy for the protection and preservation of the marine environment (2006/2174 (ini)) (a6-0364/2006)
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid.
the marine environment has long faced a variety of threats, and an ambitious maritime strategy is both necessary and desirable.
we consider it important to stress the interdependence between the common fisheries policy and the proposed marine environment strategy.
it is logical and appropriate to allow the vessel threatened and punished to proceed to the nearest shelter and then to the nearest available repair yard, if this does not endanger health and the environment.
rural areas in the eu countries, including poland, are poorer than cities and need new jobs, services and better environmental protection.
i am pleased to announce that the timeliness of connections and the safety of travel will be improved, as will the environmental impact.
the need to protect the baltic sea ecosystem, which is highly vulnerable due to its shallow, slow water change and high pollution, should therefore be emphasised.
this is coupled with the issue of a fragile ecosystem, which is further threatened by heavy shipping and planned investments, such as the construction of the northern gas pipeline, which could lead to an ecological disaster.
when undertaking such projects, it is necessary to carefully examine their potential impact on the environment, consult with stakeholders and possibly abandon the planned works if it is found that they may have a negative impact on the baltic ecosystem.
environmental issues and the interests of the countries of the region must also be taken into account in the creation of the planned maritime highway.
it is important to ensure close cooperation between member states in the construction of energy networks and to ensure solidarity between the union and russia.
the people of the sea have also created their own culture, which we should protect as carefully as the natural environment, landscape and material values.
i am thinking primarily of the first: the growing dependence of the countries of the region on russian energy supplies and the second, the package of unresolved problems in the kaliningrad region.
worrying is not only the degree of militarization, but also the social situation in kaliningrad: the high percentage of residents infected with aids, the devastation of the environment and the spread of organized crime.
so without a common interest on the part of the whole union in these problems, i emphasize, there will be no common policy either on energy or on kaliningrad.
i believe that today the baltic sea region will increasingly unite rather than divide the countries of the region by pursuing and strengthening economic interests while respecting their political rights and preserving their environmental heritage.
on the one hand, we are advocating the need to protect the baltic sea ecosystem, but on the other hand we are afraid to have an open and honest debate about the ecological aspects of the construction of the pipeline.
i remind you that last year 60 members of this house signed a petition calling for a debate on the environmental aspects of the pipeline.
the example of european solidarity in the energy sector was given by germany in its agreement with russia.
it is understandable that the union should have an instrument of military influence on its immediate environment.
on the one hand, the lack of a sustainable economic and social future, high unemployment and the prospect of ever-increasing poverty in some developing countries compared to the level of economic and social development in europe, contribute to a situation in which it is easy for criminal organisations to profit from trafficking in human beings.
with the involvement of all the presidencies in these efforts in the last couple of years, the european union has invested an enormous amount of energy and effort in solving the cyprus dilemma.
it is not surprising then that nato is taking the lead, for example in the area of the common energy policy.
the requirement to ratify the european energy charter and a stronger stance on human rights violations should be considered priorities in relations with russia.
i am glad that the finnish presidency is using the euphemism 'positive interdependence' in the context of energy cooperation between russia and the eu.
fighting corruption, organised crime and human trafficking, strengthening the role of the ombudsman for civil rights, improving the situation in orphanages and institutions for the disabled, respecting the rights of national minorities and creating a better climate for foreign investment are just some of the areas where much remains to be done.
the current agreement, which is 10 years old, is not adequate to the problems we face today, and without a new agreement, the common trade and energy policy with russia, which the european union needs, is impossible.
i would like to thank the european parliament for this compromise, in particular the rapporteurs mr buzek and mr busquin, mr chichester, chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, the shadow rapporteurs and many other representatives who have worked actively to find a common solution.
the work on these documents was coordinated in the european parliament by the administration of the committee on industry, research and energy, for which i am very grateful.
the seventh framework programme is the programme needed to make the european union a leader in the modern economy, with benefits for citizens' well-being, health and the environment.
however, the economic and political situation as well as environmental protection require priorities to be identified, which should be given specific financial and organisational support.
the construction of modern nuclear power plants, which take into account the needs of the european energy system, as well as hydro and wind power plants and the use of solar energy, ensures economic stability while reducing the greenhouse effect and environmental pollution.
member states have a serious task to integrate the environment of people with disabilities into the rest of society.
the most important of these are the resolution setting out the ten principles for a new social europe, the resolution on the middle east, the resolution on belarus and the resolution on a new social democratic energy policy.
this resolution seems to me to be timely and particularly important in view of europe's growing dependence on a small number of suppliers of energy resources.
in the next six months, under german leadership, we should also prepare solutions for the future of the constitutional treaty and energy security.
behind the lofty slogans of health and the environment, big players are trying to eliminate small and medium-sized enterprises, especially from the new eu member states, which have been the engine of the european economy so far.
it is time for us to do more and more to protect the environment and human health.
we are more efficient in producing and using energy, and we are more environmentally friendly.
so, in our search for solutions that are good for people and the environment, we should not support regulations that are too rigid and too expensive.
it's not rigid, ecological prohibitions and injunctions, but the application of technological and scientific progress that guarantees a healthier and cleaner future.
chemicals are part of our environment and are everywhere, but the rapid industrial development of the 20th century has made their use in everyday life less of a necessity and more of a convenience.
any manufacturer who intends to introduce a new product or maintain an existing licence will have to prove that the substances they produce are safe for humans and the environment.
the regulation therefore aims to simplify customs legislation and procedures both from the point of view of economic operators and the customs administration, in order to reduce the cost of customs clearance and to meet the commercial challenges in the areas of safety and security, anti-counterfeiting, money laundering, health and environmental protection.
the decision of the parliament and of the council on the electronic environment for customs and trade envisages the establishment and use of secure, interoperable and accessible electronic customs systems, which should simplify and improve supply chain logistics and customs processes.
this flexibility built into the system would be the best way to secure sustainable and coherent policy decisions in the outermost regions.
the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution and deterioration is the document we need.
first, the positive effects of the proposed regulation on the environment are clear.
the european union's relations with russia remain a core issue, covering both trade and energy, and above all issues of human rights, the rule of law and democracy.
i voted in favour of the reach regulation on dangerous substances, but i have serious doubts whether this compromise, which has been reached after long and difficult negotiations, will contribute to better protection of human health and the environment on the one hand, and to the competitiveness and innovation of the chemical industry in the european union on the other.
i would like to draw attention to a very important issue in eu-russia relations, in particular the problems of energy security and trade relations.
on this first point, i would like to point out that russia continues to use the supply of energy resources as a tool of political influence both on the member states of the union and on third countries.
i demand that europe be solidary with my country and other post-communist countries, solidary in diplomatic relations and solidary in energy matters.
the green paper is indeed a good start to developing a coherent energy strategy for europe and, more broadly, for the world.
it's not just about heating and air conditioning, it's about protecting the environment, it's about preventing climate change.
of course, energy also has a fundamental political dimension, as the well-known example of the gas turbine demonstrates.
greenhouse gas emissions trading is a global problem that requires holistic solutions.
energy innovation is both the search for new, renewable and clean energy sources and the radical rationalisation of energy consumption.
i estimate that about 25 percent of our energy is wasted through energy-intensive appliances or poor transmission or organizational solutions.
i have some hope for the 'intelligent energy' programme under the seventh framework programme.
energy security requires the creation of safety nets, or we will experience a kind of domino effect.
the european union must respect the principles of solidarity and consistency with regard to energy suppliers.
after two and a half years in office, we're talking about energy in a very different way than we did before.
we need a common foreign policy on energy supplies.
the routes of energy supply are also important, not just the suppliers themselves.
secondly, if we are to counter the crisis in gas and oil supplies, we must rely on europe's own energy sources.
over the past two and a half years, the european union has clearly made energy saving and renewable energy a priority.
thirdly, the union is continuing the euratom programme, the oldest community programme, which has brought europe a relatively safe and reliable source of atomic energy.
renewable energy alone will not do it, although i support the colleagues who say that renewable energy is necessary.
fourth, after years of neglect, europe has finally remembered that almost all countries have their own source of energy - coal.
actions to combat climate change should be taken now – there is no time left.
we should also like to ensure that energy is produced and used in a sustainable way.
we should provide for long-term perspectives for investment; we should provide for the full use of market forces; we should provide for diversification of energy sources and suppliers.
we know that we should focus strongly on energy efficiency.
we know that there is consensus for a focus on renewable energy, including heating and cooling.
we will really miss her, because she was devoted not only to her energy remit but also to europe.
i really believe that the best tribute we can pay her would be by taking very ambitious action towards creating a european energy policy and not being discouraged by legal hurdles.
renewable energy sources, in the context of increasing dependence on the supply of fuels and energy from third countries and the requirements to meet stricter standards for emissions into the environment, are one of the most important elements of energy security.
by developing the use of renewable energy sources, the eu can reduce its dependence on fossil fuels and oil imports, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and stimulate economic activity in rural areas by creating new jobs and contributing to the development of agricultural land.
the interest rate has been raised, growth rates will suffer, the investment climate will deteriorate.
firstly, russia must stop its energy blackmail of some members of the european union and secondly, restrictions on access to the russian market for food products must be lifted.
they were energy and an innovative europe.
energy is a very difficult area to progress on, we know that very well and that will be our focus for the next six months.