it will be a huge challenge in the coming months to achieve that, the way in which we can strengthen international trade rules to drive up standards of trade and social and labour rights, and trade in environment as well.
as bill clinton so well said in montreal, clean technologies and energy are the new economy that will create new business and job opportunities.
according to a report by the european environment agency, europe has not seen climate change like this in the last 5,000 years.
the four warmest years on record were 1998, 2002, 2003, and 2004. if we continue at this rate and if we do not take effective action, global warming will cause the disappearance of glaciers in the north and the expansion of deserts in the south.
we need to gradually reduce taxes on labour, as professor macclade said, and to focus on taxes on pollution and inefficient use of materials and land.
we also need reforms in the allocation of subsidies to transport, housing, energy and agriculture.
we need subsidies that encourage sustainable practices and efficient technologies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we all agree that the sugar reform is necessary to make this sector more sustainable, in line with the latest reform of the cap, and consistent with the european union's international obligations.
the first is called energy security.
if we look at the sources where our fossil fuels come from, from the middle east, from venezuela, from nigeria, from algeria and so on, we come to the conclusion that the vast majority of the sources have great political instability, so that no matter how much we equalize our reserves, no matter how much we negotiate long-term contracts, we will have a permanent threat on the energy supply to europe.
it is time to rationalize the nuclear energy option, otherwise we shall keep this knife permanently over our heads.
the agreement on the community budget for 2007-13, adopted at the december european council, is grossly inadequate in terms of financial resources and inadequate in its priorities and instruments to respond to the economic, social and environmental needs and problems of an enlarged eu of 27 countries.
cuts are also made in the social, environmental, agricultural, cooperation, research and cultural fields, while at the same time 'competitiveness', migration control, border and security policies and the common foreign and security policy are financially strengthened, to the detriment of development aid.
the final report of the conciliation on the management of waste from the extractive industries, which is also of interest to portugal, was approved positively.
with this new legislation, there is a strengthening of environmental rules in several member states and a greater obligation for industries to repair sites after they have ceased their industrial activities, taking on their responsibilities in protecting the environment and public health.
this directive is an important piece of environmental legislation.
after the commendable work of the rapporteur and the entire parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, i can only express my support for this report given the important measures envisaged to help reduce the negative effects on the environment and the risks to human health resulting from waste from the extractive industries.
this proposal represents a significant step forward in terms of protecting public health and the environment, since the proposed amendments bring clear improvements in the knowledge, control and quality of bathing waters.
i believe that this will not only improve the quality of the environment but also help to protect and inform citizens better about the quality of the bathing water they use.
i therefore consider this proposal to be of significant importance for the protection of public health and the environment.
we consider important the amendments adopted today to the report on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention in the european institutions, which gives priority to the public's right to know the procedures for participation in decision-making, namely how to use them, the right of access to information and finally access to justice in environmental matters.
for example, changes were made to the setting of environmental policy priorities and public participation in environmental policy-making, and it became mandatory to clearly indicate how to obtain information, including information on the status of infringement proceedings and the availability of information by considering the results of the various consultations.
the debate in the european parliament on the directive on access to the market in port services took place in an environment of unlawful pressure and violence which resulted in unjustified material and personal damage.
we voted against the proposal for a directive because we believe that a disorderly and uncontrolled liberalisation of access to the public services market will create serious problems for public safety and health, for the guarantee of the provision and sustainability of a service, also of a public nature, and will lead to a reduction in the effectiveness of the service itself.
we consider the resolution tabled following the 11th conference of the parties to the montreal convention on climate change to be generally positive, as it underlines the willingness of the parties to comply with the kyoto protocol and deplores the us administration's reluctance to join any meaningful international partnership on climate change.
we particularly regret that the proposal which we support and which called for an urgent review of the relevant flexible mechanisms before the community's emissions trading scheme could be extended to other areas (e.g.
we believe that an analysis is needed to demonstrate that such enlargement will contribute to combating climate change and that rich countries/areas will not be privileged at the expense of developing countries and industries.
we also disagree with the insistence, even for the purpose of an evaluation, on the trading of pollution rights.
we voted in favour of the report which seeks to assess the environmental aspects of sustainable development and which makes some criticisms of the commission's position on the inadequacy of some guidelines and the scarcity of financial resources.
although it does not clearly call into question the policies at the root of environmental problems, in particular the focus on competitiveness to the detriment of people and the environment, always subordinated to the logic of profit, it has positive aspects in its defence of less polluting transport, the role of land and forest planning, the need to ensure food supply.
the relationship between poverty and the environment is also positive, although it is regrettable that the most important point in this area was rejected in plenary, including the assertion that the policies of liberalization do not address the problems of poverty and social exclusion and the criticism that the proposals on the fight against poverty, social exclusion and the increase in inequalities are inadequate.
today, sustainable development is without a shadow of a doubt a fundamental objective of the european union and a global challenge.
sustainable development strategies therefore require a long-term political vision at the highest level.
in the face of the social, environmental and democratic challenges we face, it is essential to act responsibly, not only at the level of public authorities, but also at the level of citizens.
in this process we must therefore reiterate the need to reaffirm sustainable development as a priority for the future of europe, while maintaining our objective of meeting the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
on the contrary, it is a service to society, as it allows the low birth rate and the ageing population to be tackled while ensuring the sustainability of the social security system.
as rapporteur on sustainable tourism for the union, i cannot help but follow the measures being taken in this key area for tourism, which is without doubt the most promising economic sector for european economic growth and development.
the involvement of smes is therefore fundamental and unavoidable for the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which aim to strengthen sustainable growth and the creation of more and better jobs.
however, in order to be fair and effective, the reform must strike a balance between:the international trade commitments undertaken;the proposed objectives of increasing the competitiveness of the sector;the stability of the community market;the viability and sustainability of the sector, in particular with regard to guaranteeing the incomes of european producers; and the preferential trade regime granted by the european union to acp countries and least developed countries, notably through incentives for sugar exports to the eu under the 'everything but arms' initiative.
it is agreed that reform of the sugar sector is necessary to make this important sector more sustainable in line with the latest cap reform and consistent with the eu's international obligations.
the sugar reform is necessary to make this sector more sustainable, following the latest cap reform.
i support the rapporteur's proposals which stress the need to increase funding for the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument to deal with the problem of access to the single market, to define a clear strategy for the fight against international terrorism and organised crime, to improve links in energy and transport networks and to cooperate in the field of the environment.
finally, special attention should be paid to energy policy, as the eu is surrounded by the world's largest oil and natural gas reserves.
despite being europe's south-western atlantic frontier, cape verde has been included in other programmes which, by themselves, do not reflect its true proximity, nor do they recognise its identification with common values such as the rule of law, the promotion of good neighbourly relations and the principles of market economy and sustainable development.
the economic, social and environmental renewal of the european union envisaged in the lisbon strategy aims to promote a more dynamic and competitive europe of knowledge, accompanied by a qualitative and quantitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
secondly, we also have learned a very important lesson from this, namely that the question of energy is of great importance and has to be placed much higher on our political agenda.
the issue of energy covers energy security, the question of diversification and the ways of dealing with this question in the future.
it is about the environment: think of the kyoto protocol.
it is not only about energy supplies and prices, but also about the fight against poverty in the world, and our ability to integrate our immigrant populations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security is certainly a technical issue.
the joint resolution just voted points to the need to take new management measures for the mediterranean, always taking into account the principle that it is essential to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources in order to ensure the viability of fisheries, the maintenance of fleets and jobs, and the development of fishing communities.
we know that state aid is an important economic policy instrument for boosting economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to realise its strategic options, ensure the financing of public services and compensate companies that promote so-called 'services of general interest'.
i congratulate my colleague, mrs herczog, on her important report on the effects of globalisation on the internal market, which i support, particularly as regards the need to create a healthy environment to support small and mediumsized enterprises and to strengthen their position and access to innovation and financial instruments.
the rapid liberalisation of world trade, characterised by lax labour and environmental standards, poses a considerable challenge to the competitiveness of the european economy.
the eu cannot and should not compete with economies based on export subsidies, disregard for basic environmental and social standards and violation of human rights.
european integration is based on solidarity, respect for human rights, environmental and social standards and sustainable development.
china, as is well known, has been systematically breaking the rules of the game since its accession to the wto in 2001. in this particular case, it would be more than justified for the eu to impose minimum social and environmental standards in successive trade agreements with this partner.
the recommendations contained in this report will help to uphold the basic principles inherent in the new cfp: the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources while ensuring sustainable environmental and social economic conditions.
legal certainty and the defence of social, labour, environmental and consumer rights require that it be rejected, and that is what we are voting for.
question no 6 by bernd posselt (h-1192/05) subject: energy dependence in the eu how does the council assess the extreme energy dependence of the eu on russia and the gulf countries and what possibilities does it see for reducing this dependence by systematically promoting renewable raw materials and alternative energies?
commissioner, we all know that it is commonplace to talk about the economic, social and environmental importance of european forests.
these are therefore indicators which illustrate the importance of the subject and the importance which the community institutions must attach to it, especially at a time when various factors, whether arising from natural causes or human action, are threatening the forest, in a particularly complex international context which calls for a new and urgent approach from the european union to the energy question, where biomass can and must play a relevant role, as the commission and the austrian presidency have recognized in giving priority to this issue.
while we are certainly in favour of a european union action plan for sustainable forest management, we have not followed up on several of the proposals in the report now under discussion.
we regret that several of the proposals we made in the committee on agriculture to draw attention to the situation of forests in the southern european countries, which are faced annually with fires, sometimes accompanied by drought, as happened in portugal last year, where some 300 000 hectares of forest were burned at very high cost and with serious consequences for forests, biodiversity, farmers and the populations of vast areas.
experience has shown that the forestry sector can contribute to the lisbon strategy objectives of sustainable economic growth and competitiveness and also to the gothenburg objectives of safeguarding the quantity and quality of europe's natural resources.
i therefore believe that the member states should start to reflect in depth on the environmental, social and economic advantages of introducing a common policy in the context of the future constitution.
we therefore voted against the overall proposal and many of its sub-aspects, which we regarded as negative, in particular the following aspects: - the liberalization of services in general, including in sensitive areas of public services and sectors such as water services, social housing, energy services, postal services, research, education and training, cultural services and security services, where our proposals to remove them from the scope of the directive were rejected; - the fragility of the situation for the recruitment of workers, including self-employed workers; - the worsening of the difficulties in defending the rights of consumers, users of public services and the environment.
it is of the utmost importance that strategies are fully and rigorously defined to promote the development of european rural areas, the improvement of the living conditions of their populations and the improvement of the rural environment.
however, it is not with palliative measures of limited and more than doubtful reach that the millennium development goals will be met: eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and empowering women, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability and creating a partnership for development.
it is unacceptable to try to justify the escalation of us intervention in the middle east by creating a false environment of clash of civilizations.
it should be stressed that it is germany, france and the united kingdom which are taking the initiative in trying to block a negotiated solution by the international atomic energy agency on iran, a goal long sought by the united states.
the commission has therefore submitted a statement of objections, which calls for 'the reform and reduction of the rigidity of the wage-setting system, especially in the public sector, the acceleration of the privatisation process, the continuation of reforms and the liberalisation of the energy sector or the continuation of restructuring and the liberalisation of the railway sector', which is unacceptable.
in recent years, as has already been mentioned, there has been an increase in natural disasters as a result of climate change, environmental damage, land use change, etc.
in the working meetings with the local, regional and national authorities of the six countries affected by natural disasters which i visited as rapporteur for the committee on the environment's own-initiative report on natural disasters, it was emphasized that, in order to serve the people, the community's emergency response instruments must be simplified and the rules for applying the regulations more flexible, that is to say simplified and flexible, and in addition, it was recommended that coordination at european level be strengthened and, of course, that financial appropriations be increased.
we also stress the proposals for integrated management of natural and environmental resources, including the management of forests, areas most prone to flooding, wetlands and other fragile ecosystems and risk assessment in urban areas, the call for special attention to be paid to isolated and outermost regions, greater information and awareness-raising among the population and greater and better training of professionals.
with the amendments tabled by parliament, the prevention of these phenomena is also given a place in the instrument, which seems to be essential in the fight against such important objectives as the protection of people, the environment and property.
but the debate on solidarity between countries in the event of a catastrophe also helps to highlight (if not to denounce) the unacceptable waste of resources in the arms race and the militarization of international relations by the major capitalist powers, with the united states as their main promoter.
how many lives, how much suffering, how much destruction of economic, social and environmental resources could be avoided if a policy of de-escalation of international relations, peaceful settlement of conflicts, disarmament and effective mutually beneficial cooperation between the different countries and peoples were pursued?
the question of marine pollution is added, because we have to recognize that a coastal state alone cannot deal with an environmental emergency caused by a large-scale oil spill that hits its coast.
i therefore believe that some legislative measures should be promoted to prevent the waste of public funds and the use of public benefits without a consequent concern for responsibility in the management of private entities.
the end of mercury exports, the end of its use in measuring equipment, dental amalgams, the control of emissions and the study of the effect of mercury use in vaccines are important points in this proposal which can bring clear benefits to public health.
the sustainability of fisheries resources is undoubtedly crucial to ensuring the long-term viability of the fishing industry and the fisheries sector.
sustainability of resources, which should be based on a comprehensive approach to measures to protect the marine environment and to recover fish stocks, should also take into account factors such as coastal and high seas pollution, industrial and agricultural tributaries, dredging of funds and maritime transport.
such sustainability should also be based on technical measures resulting from scientific fisheries research, in particular through the implementation of protection periods and zones and mesh size rules.
we also believe that fisheries management policies should not be used to penalise this strategically valuable activity, which is of vital economic and social importance, and that a balance should be struck between meeting socioeconomic needs and environmental sustainability, in particular by implementing appropriate socioeconomic measures to compensate fishermen for the costs of reduced activity caused by recovery plans for fish stocks, especially those working in less developed areas.
we also argued that fishermen and their representative associations should be involved in the definition of measures to protect the marine environment and to recover fish stocks, and we re-submitted an amendment which considers decentralization and co-management as two fundamental principles, both to ensure the involvement of fishermen and their representative associations in the definition of measures in these areas and to ensure their effectiveness, taking into account not only that it is the fishermen who will apply them, but also that they have an on-the-spot knowledge of the state of the resources and are the main stakeholders in their conservation.
ensuring satisfactory reproduction of fish and consequently the increase of stocks requires appropriate management measures such as temporary closure of certain fisheries, reduction of by-catches to sustainable levels and effective monitoring of vessels and fishing areas using satellite technologies.
despite the commission's good intentions, a more decentralised approach is sometimes needed on important and sensitive issues for the economic and environmental sustainability of fisheries.
as we have argued in the resolution we have tabled, it is therefore essential that the lisbon strategy be replaced by a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, which promotes investment in research and innovation with a view to balanced and sustainable development, in the quality of work in all its aspects, in the improvement of skills, in basic infrastructure to support industry, in public services, in environmental protection and in green technologies, particularly in the areas of energy and transport, in the improvement of labour, social, environmental and safety standards, with a view to achieving harmonisation at the highest level, and in the social economy.
the agreement provides for compensation for both parties while safeguarding the implementation of a sustainable fisheries policy in the gfcm.
i fully support the report by mrs bauer which commends the measures presented by the commission to help member states to recognise the difficulties faced by disadvantaged people and to support their integration, to promote job creation, training and career progression, reconciliation of family and private life, the right to equitable access to health care and decent housing, and to ensure the sustainability of social protection systems.
a sustainable fisheries sector based on the latest developments in scientific and technological research is essential to achieving one of the union's main objectives, namely the exploitation of living marine resources in a way that creates sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
this commission communication seems to be a step in the right direction, particularly as it plays an important role in promoting ecologically sustainable fisheries management.
in the light of the above, i consider that the content of this communication is a relevant and important contribution to building a positive future, both for those whose livelihoods depend on fishing and for the protection of the natural environment.
it identifies four priority areas for action in which the heads of state or government of the european union should commit themselves to take the following additional concrete measures at national and european level: increased investment in education and innovation, unlocking the potential of enterprises, especially smes, responding to the challenges of globalisation and an ageing population, and moving towards an effective and integrated european energy policy.
the austrian chancellor and current president of the eu council, the president of the commission and the commissioners for business and industry, the environment, competition, research, the information society and the media, as well as government leaders responsible for the so-called national reform programmes, will take part.
the big employers want to present their specifications in which they will reaffirm the demand for the implementation of the so-called structural reforms, a euphemism for right-wing politics, the real meaning of which workers know and feel; the precariousness of work and the loss of value of wages, the increase in the duration and working time and the retirement age, the degradation of public services and their subsequent liberalization and privatization, with emphasis on energy and communications, but also social security, health and education and research, with their role of exploitation, unemployment and poverty.
in fact, the existing legislation has become ineffective, as illustrated by the asymmetrical but economically unsustainable legal decisions in relation to the energy market in portugal and spain.
the european commission presented a community action programme in the field of health and consumer protection, combining two previously separate programmes in these fields, with the argument of energy creation, forgetting that there was an overlap between the objectives, strategies and instruments of one and the other.
but we think it is important to defend biological diversity, to have the widest possible global agreement on the protection of biodiversity, which is expressed in the convention on biological diversity.
but we know that just as important or even more important is the need to halt the loss of biodiversity by integrating the objectives of the convention into development policy, in particular into community policies, including agricultural and forestry, by not opening the way to gmos, but by supporting family farming and traditional forestry, which are the most important defenders of biodiversity.
the protection of marine biodiversity from destructive practices is also required, by supporting coastal and traditional fisheries, which are the best protectors of biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the problems caused to portuguese farmers by the bad agricultural year due to the extreme drought conditions last year, were aggravated by the unilateral termination by the government of agri-environmental measures contracted in 2005 with farmers and co-financed by the european union in 85%.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
several social protection, solidarity and social security systems are most threatened with their sustainability.
firstly, i believe that non-food crops can make an important contribution to the european energy sector which is currently being considered.
the need to ensure the european union's energy security and greater external autonomy is becoming more urgent.
secondly, the promotion of non-food crops will be an added value from the agricultural point of view, especially in the case of energy crops, which could offer new hope for the future of european agriculture and the cap, which has been so misunderstood.
in a bleak future for european food production, given the difficulty of competing with countries with lower social and environmental concerns that allow low-cost production, the search for alternatives to keep agriculture alive is urgent.
as the resolution states, the energy dependence of the 25 member states of the european union is very high, reaching 48% in 2002 and could increase to 71% in 2030 if no further action is taken.
some data are clearly illustrative: - imports meet 76.6% of oil demand, 53% of gas demand, 35.4% of coal demand and almost 100% of uranium and uranium products demand; - gross electricity production in the eu-25 is divided between: nuclear energy (31%), solid fuels, especially coal (25%), natural gas (18%), renewable energy sources (14%) and oil (5%); - final energy use is about 28% for the industrial sector; 31% in the transport sector and 41% in the buildings sector.
we therefore know that measures are needed, including increased cooperation, research, public policies and appropriate investment, to reduce the dependence of member states and increase energy efficiency.
but we are not following up on several of the proposals contained in the resolution, in particular the commitment to liberalization of the sector, to giving priority to competition, to the internal energy market, since this path can only lead to the strengthening of economic and financial groups, without improving the situation of the countries with the weakest economies and their populations.
the commission's green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy provides a correct analysis of the problems of energy supply which have become so evident in recent times.
what we may call the 'energy question' is the expected result of economic progress, associated with the limited production/transformation capacity of traditional energy sources.
at the same time, i believe that this discussion is only realistic if, alongside renewable energies, nuclear energy is included in the debate.
what is needed to motivate citizens to take a greater part in politics, also at community level, is a profound change in the neoliberal policies, the end of the stability pact, the withdrawal of the so-called bolkestein directive, the replacement of the lisbon strategy by a genuine strategy of solidarity, sustainable development and social cohesion.
the rapporteur says, and we agree, that 'the production of renewable raw materials and the use of organic waste can contribute to improving the environment, sustainable energy production, job creation and regional balance, as well as to greater diversification and autonomy of multifunctional agriculture'.
however, we believe it is necessary to draw attention to existing capacities in the field of energy alternatives and the relationship between energy, the environment and agriculture - for the ultimate benefit of citizens and their quality of life, as well as for the economic sectors involved - in the context of sustainable development.
we believe, however, that an appropriate balance should be struck between food and energy crops to ensure that food sovereignty and food security are not put at risk.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this would make these products dependent on the energy industry and the rules of the world trade organisation (wto).
the priority is to guarantee economic stability, to extend and deepen the internal market, to ensure that markets are open and competitive, to create a more attractive business environment.
in the present context, it is less correct to speak of the revision of the lisbon strategy, but rather of its deepening, because what is at stake today, and has always been from the beginning, is the increase in economic growth and more employment, both generators of long-term sustainability of social models and propitious, in the short term, of adequate social cohesion.
the european council decided to support the commission in drawing up a common european energy policy.
the union's energy dependence is unsustainable.
the creation of a common energy policy requires increased competition.
a common regulation requires, above all, a lot of investment to improve existing networks and to restart real progress in the field of alternative energies and energy saving.
all this is essential for increasing competitiveness and sustainable development.
i congratulate my colleague, mrs anne laperrouze, on her strong and timely recommendation for a second reading on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and of the council laying down guidelines for transeuropean energy networks.
we have a unique opportunity to demonstrate to the citizens our willingness to develop a genuine european energy policy.
the trans-european energy networks will promote interconnection, interoperability and the development of energy networks in the enlarged europe, while stimulating the effective operation of the internal market.
the primacy of competition is one of the pillars of the internal market and has justified the process of liberalisation/privatisation in strategic sectors such as energy, transport and communications, which was accelerated from 2000 onwards with the adoption of the lisbon strategy.
while the report states that it aims to combat dominant positions and monopolies, it accepts the guidelines of the commission's 2004 report, focusing on energy and telecommunications, and reiterates the full liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors, a priority of the spring 2006 council.
in the name of globalisation, workers' rights and social security are called into question, greater flexibility is imposed on labour markets (with the new magical concept of 'flexicurity', of which the cpe in france is the first example), the increase in the age of effective and official retirement is justified, the liberalisation of the energy sector is insisted on and the liberalisation of services is called for, contributing to labour deregulation and social and environmental dumping.
we live in a time when the debate must focus on taking concrete decisions that make the economic environment more conducive to growth, employment, competition, innovation and wealth creation, and we must refrain from spending our energies on what is incidental or, equally serious, on what should be obvious.
the member states of the european union, and in particular their political leaders, have a duty to promote a political environment favourable to economic reforms.
it is therefore also not sustainable to try to allocate a substantial amount of support to six institutions, which are now eight, without any kind of competition.
the agreed funds are clearly insufficient to cope with the economic, social and environmental situation in the enlarged eu, where inequalities have increased and the need for cohesion is increased.
in my view, the challenges facing europe today have been well identified by the european council: globalisation, demography, the key sectors of the european economy such as energy and services, research and development, innovation, education, employment and growth.
if, on the one hand, remarkable progress has been made in the field of energy, progress which was unthinkable just six months ago, there have been other areas where, unfortunately, progress has not been made as far.
the european project is a project of respect for cultural diversity and richness, through measures that deepen the cohesion among europeans, so necessary for the completion of the internal market and the sustainable growth and development of our societies.
i voted in favour of the avril doyle report on a joint draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases because it establishes a legislative framework for these gases with considerable greenhouse effects, some of which are more harmful than co2, and which can persist in the atmosphere for up to 50,000 years.
in order to meet the kyoto objectives and protect the environment, this regulation will ensure the recycling, recovery or destruction of equipment using fluorinated gases, as well as greater information to european consumers about the global warming potential of these gases.
the agreement reached in the conciliation committee is very satisfactory and brings about major improvements in terms of gaseous emissions into the atmosphere.
the proposed dual legal basis is appropriate for this type of regulation as it allows certain member states to maintain more restrictive environmental legislation while ensuring the balance of the internal market in europe.
containment of emissions and leakage appears to be the appropriate solution in view of the objective of reducing emissions of fluorinated gases into the atmosphere.
the agreement reached in the conciliation committee is satisfactory and brings about significant improvements in gas emissions into the atmosphere.
the restriction of the use of hfc-134a, as well as other high greenhouse gases, in new vehicles launched on the market from 2011 and its extension to all vehicles in circulation from 2017 are measures that can lead to a significant reduction in emissions.
despite being europe's south-western atlantic frontier, cape verde has been included in other programmes which, by themselves, do not reflect its true proximity, nor do they recognise its identification with common values such as the rule of law, the promotion of good neighbourly relations and the principles of market economy and sustainable development.
the report by mr reinhard rack, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing the second marco polo programme on the granting of community financial support to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system (marco polo ii) (com (2004) 0478 - c6-0088/2004 - 2004/0157 (cod)) (a6-0408/2005) follows.
i believe that your aim and that of most of the colleagues who have been involved in the debate in committee is above all that we must first of all rebalance the distribution of transport in a sustainable way and develop intermodality by tackling the problem of congestion effectively.
the economic, safety and environmental costs are enormous.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives pursued in this report and the solutions it proposes will certainly have a decisive impact on the future of european freight transport, both in terms of its fluidity and its sustainability, and our support and the favourable vote of this parliament are therefore essential.
following the report on the eu-morocco partnership agreement on marine resources, i would like to state that my vote seeks to follow the regulation most appropriate for the environmental sustainability of the area.
our legislation must therefore help to open up opportunities for trade and business, to increase the choice available to consumers and citizens, while protecting environmental, social and consumer rights.
the effort to analyse and revise the community legislative framework is a goal which must be promoted with a view to simplifying the legislative environment, which is essential for greater legal certainty for both citizens and judicial operators.
on the other hand, it is an opportunity to simplify the regulatory environment, which is essential for the development of economic activity.
we insist on the need for a combined and coordinated expansionary policy between the european union and its member states, aimed at strengthening domestic demand, public investment, research and education, quality public services, including in the areas of health and housing and infrastructure and equipment, promoting high rates of employment with rights, ensuring economic and social cohesion and balanced environmental development.
without this, we are in fact still living in this climate of pessimism that results from policies that do not address the problems that people are experiencing in the european union at the moment.
the soundness of public finances is only relevant if it is sustainable in the medium term, which often requires measures of a structural nature.
in short, consolidating public finances is essential, but only if it is sustainable and fully linked to strengthening the european economy and the capacities of its citizens.
the interinstitutional agreement before us was negotiated under exceptionally difficult conditions and is certainly a success and good news for europe, especially in an environment of crisis of projects and leadership that has marked the last years of european life.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
however, in view of these important amendments and without forgetting that, as stated in the article - 'this regulation establishes a financial instrument (...) with the aim of reducing congestion, improving the environmental performance of the transport system and enhancing intermodal transport, thus contributing to an efficient and sustainable transport system (...) ' - we cannot agree to the drastic reduction of the budget allocation for the programme (it should be recalled that the initial allocation was eur 740 million and the amount approved today is only eur 400 million, which corresponds to a reduction of 46%).
when we talk about fighting climate change, about complying with the kyoto protocol and developing more environmentally friendly means of transport, we find that we do not give the necessary support to the realisation of these objectives.
the report thus recalls the implications for growth, employment and macroeconomic stability of public finances and calls on the commission and the member states to work together and take measures to counteract the slow growth of the european economy and provide a positive environment for the smooth functioning of the single currency.
the report under discussion is based on the following three main assumptions: first, agriculture and forestry are activities in symbiosis with nature and are therefore particularly exposed to the effects of climate change, which is exacerbated by the climate change context in which we live, and to the bio-health risks arising from air, water and soil pollution and which are exacerbated by increasing globalisation.
the eafrd, for its part, should give priority to financing, with the greatest possible co-financing through national rural development programmes, actions aimed at afforestation and reforestation of burnt trees, as well as all preventive measures such as clearing of forests, combining it with the use of biomass to produce energy, in addition, of course, to training and information for the economic operators involved and raising the awareness of the population of this type of problem.
the climate is changing, the year is no longer compartmented into the traditional four seasons.
climate change is at the root of natural disasters, such as floods, extreme droughts and fires, which have occurred worldwide with great frequency and caused severe damage in terms of human losses, environmental degradation and reduced economic activity.
in addition to earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, floods and fires, other phenomena associated with climate change and global warming are causing sea level rise in coastal areas and the disappearance of beaches.
to avoid the worst, serious and immediate measures are needed to curb greenhouse gas emissions and to comply with the kyoto protocol.
it is also necessary to ensure a more sustainable, rational and efficient use of water.
the allocation of resources between the different domestic, industrial and agricultural users must be studied and discussed, and waste must be combated.
it is essential to raise awareness among citizens so that they can take part in preventing these disasters, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as i have already said, by protecting the forest and by not building in risk areas.
natural disasters have no borders and their environmental consequences affect neighbouring countries as well.
at a time when climate change is already making itself felt and when the vulnerability of farmers to these dangers is becoming increasingly relevant, i consider it of the utmost importance to draw up a community strategy against natural disasters.
dear commission, dear members, in recent years europe has been affected by natural disasters which have caused hundreds of deaths and considerable economic and environmental damage to the affected regions.
in the algarve, the natural disaster of the drought in 2005, preceded in 2003 by the devastation caused by forest fires, had serious repercussions on local infrastructure, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and agricultural and tourist activities.
the portuguese parliament also adopted a resolution which considers that the possibility of supporting regional disasters with a significant socioeconomic and environmental impact in disadvantaged regions of the european union should be maintained.
i also believe that only a strengthening of the existing financial measures, specifically designed to mitigate the negative effect on regional economies of the dispersion, small size and great distance of the outermost regions from the european continent, will enable these regions to make a decisive contribution to sustainable job creation and economic growth in the eu.
in other words, i believe that a better and more effective union requires better policies and more resources, in the context of sustainable development, contributing to economic and territorial cohesion, the ultimate objective of cohesion policy as enshrined in the treaties.
although it contains aspects with which we agree - such as the need to safeguard the fundamental rights of the sarawi people and a just and sustainable solution to the conflict in western sahara, based on the right of the sarawi people to self-determination, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the security council, in particular resolution 1495 - this report, as in previous years, has been characterized as an exercise of hypocrisy, serving as a weapon of pressure and political interference, whereby the so-called 'friendly' countries are safeguarded and the 'others', those whom the us and the eu target, are criticised.
in politics, good intentions not only don't come, they can be a form of waste.
the climate vulnerability of agriculture has thus been highlighted in recent years with cases of extreme drought in portugal, spain, italy and france.
we are very pleased that several of our proposals have been accepted, including: - the safeguarding of the solidarity fund, which should continue to provide for intervention in the event of disasters where, although significant, the damage does not reach the minimum required level, but where there are obvious serious and lasting repercussions on the living conditions of the population of a specific region, in which case extraordinary aid may be granted; - the existence of a wide network of small and medium-sized agricultural holdings and an agricultural policy promoting more sustainable production methods, in particular in the use of water and soil, which is a fundamental condition for combating the effects of drought and forest fires; - the establishment of a community programme for forest fire protection, in the next financial framework 2007-2013, promoting actions to prevent and raise awareness of forest fire risks, complementing the specific forestry and agricultural policy, taking into account the structural and financial aspects of the mediterranean forest.
the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the report by mr alejo vidal-quadras, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on energy efficiency (green paper) [2005/2210 (ini) ] (a6-0160/2006) is reproduced below.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy saving is indeed a factor that reduces europe's dependence on an essential commodity, contributes to sustainable development and, by avoiding waste, increases competitiveness.
there seems to be convergence of objectives, the biggest problem we face is how to move from objectives to practice, how to change habits and practices of waste.
as rapporteur, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of his report and his cooperation in accepting a substantial number of proposed amendments, and i would point out only three points: first, the liberalisation of energy markets must be accompanied by the quality of regulation.
thirdly, fiscal differentiation is needed in favour of more efficient practices and, finally, i think that in policy coherence there should be a place for the structural and cohesion funds to sponsor energy-saving measures and actions, especially in cities, in conjunction with the upgrading and rationalisation of transport systems.
whether it is directly in the economic area (think, for example, of the energy question, the growth of economic powers such as china or india, world poverty), or in the field of security, among others.
i therefore believe that small adjustments to the wto trade negotiations on the environment, agriculture, raw materials, public services and health, as well as industrialisation, could provide greater benefit to these populations from the benefits of trade.
the green paper on energy efficiency forms the basis for the european commission's energy efficiency action plan, which is of great importance as it is a key document for issues such as combating climate change, environmental pollution, the misuse of natural resources and the security of energy supply.
the rapporteur points to strategic and very important points in order to achieve the 20% reduction in energy consumption in the european union by 2020 proposed by the european commission.
raising awareness, educating and motivating people to change their behaviour and consumption habits, encouraging the use of cogeneration technologies, the exemplary role of the public sector in using cleaner transport and efficient lighting and the use of energy-saving contracts are simple measures that can translate into large energy savings.
the rapporteur also paid particular attention to the instability of the energy market and the recent oil price rises, which make the current framework different from that which existed when the commission drafted the green paper.
annex - position of the commission
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing an infrastructure for spatial information in the european community (inspire) (12064/2/2005 - c6-0054/2006 - 2004/0175 (cod)) (rapporteur: frieda brepoels) (a6-0081/2006) is hereby adopted.
flooded cities, destroyed houses, millions upon millions of euros of damage and serious social and environmental problems are some of the visible consequences of floods.
what can be done to prevent so many human casualties, ecological disasters, and social and economic problems resulting from natural disasters?
europe therefore needs to meet development challenges where it can be competitive and sustainable, where it has comparative advantages with economic potential.
difficult to move and easily adaptable, it is able to meet quality and environmental protection requirements, it is able to meet the needs of further training, it can combat seasonality if it is able to adapt to new audiences and it has growth potential.
it would therefore be expected that the commission, in presenting a new communication on the subject, would bring something new and respond to the challenges set out by this parliament in the resolution on the future of sustainable tourism in europe, which was adopted in september last year.
the commission does not respond or responds poorly to proposals for concrete measures to promote sustainable development and the economic exploitation of the tourism industry.
the same applies to parliament's request to be associated with the development of agenda 21 in the context of sustainable european tourism or the need to create mechanisms for the protection of european tourists in situations of crisis or disaster abroad.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, greater involvement of the european institutions is essential to strengthening the sustainable development of tourism.
the union's action to support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states - as provided for in the treaty, which has not yet been ratified - represents an important added value for national policies and actions for the sustainable development of the tourism sector.
this is why this moral issue is so important in order to inspire the necessary commitment on the part of the commission and the council to follow up the relevant initiatives proposed by parliament for sustainable development, in particular by creating the europe destination, the european union brand, the guarantee of safety and the safeguarding of tourists' rights.
secondly, that there is a need to develop and deepen research on climate change and its relationship with natural disasters.
research is also needed to solve the energy problem.
the protocol was initialled by the community at the ministerial conference of the alpine convention held in chambéry on 20 december 1994. subordinated to the overall objective of sustainable development, the protocol on mountain agriculture aims, as stated in article 1, to ensure and promote appropriate and environmentally compatible agriculture in the alpine region as an essential contribution to the maintenance of populated areas and sustainable economic activities.
this includes high quality typical products, the safeguarding of the natural environment, protection against natural hazards and the preservation of the beauty and value of the landscape.
we are now facing a second reading of the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution.
the rapporteur also stresses that agreement must be reached on the methods of measuring groundwater pollution, arguing that this should be done on the basis of comparable thresholds.
the reintroduction of the 'emissions principle' (as set out in the groundwater directive 80/68/ec) to achieve the objective of article 4 of the framework directive, 'protecting groundwater from pollution and deterioration', the highest restriction applied to substances listed in annex viii of the framework directive, in order to avoid long-term contamination and therefore also the need for recovery measures, are important changes introduced.
the main reason for the discontent is the social crisis, which the council's proposal for conclusions only deals with marginally, referring to a report to be submitted by march 2007. it is in the interests of the community to make progress on liberalization, the directive on the establishment of the internal market in services and the common energy policy.
this agreement recognised that the european commission, supported by parliament, was right to challenge the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law, recognising that the protection of the environment in the eu requires concerted action by criminalising the most serious offences.
its purpose and substance therefore fall within the community's powers in environmental matters (ec treaty) and not within the provisions of the teu on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
a framework decision in the field of the environment has been annulled, but its consequences should be felt beyond this area, affecting the whole of community policies as well as fundamental freedoms, when it is necessary to resort to criminal law measures to ensure their effectiveness.
their long-term impact on sustainable development is undeniable.
part one
since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 6 by fiona hall (h-0055/06) subject: sustainable production of biofuels does the council not consider that the production of biofuels should be sustainable, so as not to endanger biodiversity, to avoid the transformation of natural habitats into intensively cultivated areas and to ensure that the entire production cycle, including the transport of fuel, is at least carbon neutral both inside and outside the eu?
what measures does the council intend to take to ensure the certification of sustainable biofuel production?
what opportunities does the austrian presidency foresee for european agriculture following the mandatory use of renewable raw materials, in particular the increased use of biomass and biofuels?
question no 9 by othmar karas (h-0495/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: pollutant emissions from passenger cars the commission proposal for a euro 5 regulation on the pollutant emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles is not very ambitious, particularly as regards the limit values for nitrogen oxides emitted by diesel cars.
i am naturally pleased with your answer, but in view of the responsibility which comes with protecting the environment, in view of the european parliament's resolutions on natural disasters in their regional, environmental and agricultural dimensions which detail the tragedy felt mainly in mediterranean europe and especially last year in spain and my country, portugal, resulting from the continuing destruction of vast areas of forest with very high costs in human sustainability, depopulation of rural areas, growth and employment of these areas, i ask, mr minister, whether there are any more
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex).
i would like to say that coastal fishing is a concept which must be defined in economic, social and environmental terms, also in terms of its techniques, but which must be seen geographically in the light of the reality to which it applies.
investment in research on climate change and its relationship to natural disasters and on alternative energy sources to fossil fuels needs to be reinforced.
the creation of a specific chapter on fisheries and sustainable exploitation of the oceans in the seventh framework programme therefore deserves my unconditional support, as do all the other measures contained in the report.
despite the positive aspects of the proposal voted today, we believe that the priorities of such an important instrument should also include public research in the social and environmental fields, education and health.
we therefore regret the rejection of some proposals that included, for example, safety at work and the prevention of occupational diseases, or the use of icts for sustainable development and social and economic inclusion.
we insist that environmental policy can represent an important economic opportunity for direct and indirect job creation on a large scale, if innovation and industrial policies focus on promoting sustainable development.
a macroeconomic framework is therefore needed to support the sustainable development of each country by strengthening employment, social cohesion and the environment.
the 'lisbon strategy' and the eu's monetary and fiscal policies have had negative consequences for economic growth and employment, as well as for the environment.
the following are highlighted:- recognition of the specific nature of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing in the common fisheries policy and adaptation of its instruments to the needs of this sector;- financing from the eff the renewal of vessels in this defunct segment;- creation of education and training programmes aimed at the entry of young fishermen in this sector;- financing of projects and actions of sector organisations and local authorities;- ensuring the participation of fishermen in the commercial process, revising the common customs tariff (cmo) for fishery products, ensuring fairer prices at first sale and a better distribution of value added;- ensuring the participation of fishermen and their representative organisations in the decision-making process of the common fisheries policy, in the protection of the marine environment and in the recovery of fisheries resources, applying the principle of co-management and decentralisation to the cfp.
with the implementation of air transport as the most widely used means of travelling long distances, emissions from aviation are counteracting the overall objective of reducing emissions.
the measures proposed in this report, in particular the charging of fees for emissions and the trading of emission allowances, seem to me to be an appropriate way of tackling the problem of aviation influence.
it is also very important that all internal flights and all flights departing from or arriving in the eu should be included in this proposal so as not to create market imbalances, and that a single european airspace should be created, which would allow savings on air routes, since more direct flights would result in lower emissions.
in the draft report on the european social model which will be debated in this same plenary session next september, we therefore insist that the european union should take a stance towards third countries with strong economic growth that promotes democracy, freedom, respect for human rights, environmental protection, social justice and the regulation of the labour market.
we believe that europe should play a mobilizing role in order to secure a platform for balancing economic growth with the pursuit of high social and environmental standards in the new emerging world powers.
the report by joan calabuig rull, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a policy framework to strengthen the eu's manufacturing industry - towards a more integrated approach to industrial policy (2006/2003 (ini)) (a6-0206/2006) follows.
mr president, i consider your programme to be clear, pragmatic and credible, which has not been the case in all presidencies, and i think that it has among its priorities some which we consider essential, among them the russian question and energy.
it is not worth negotiating with russia only on the energy issue.
the president-in-office said that we were living in a time of challenges: the challenges of globalisation, the climate challenge, demographic challenges, etc.
it is positive that the european parliament voted in favour of two proposals in the report aimed at promoting a socially inclusive knowledge-based society, for example by supporting free and open source software, and another that stressed that better research and innovation policies should contribute to new job opportunities through sustainable development.
the inclusion of the proposal to give equal priority to the working environment and the health and safety of workers with a view to ensuring the creation of more and better jobs and also to protecting the rights of workers whenever manufacturing companies are restructured and, therefore, to fully guaranteeing the availability of information for workers' representative bodies is also emphasized.
question no 2 by mr richard seeber (h-0505/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: framework convention on climate change and the environment following the successful outcome of the cop11/mop1 in montreal at the end of 2005, it is now essential to steer and move rapidly forward the new processes initiated, namely the negotiations on commitments for the period after 2012 and the dialogue on long-term joint actions under the framework convention on climate change.
can the presidency report on the progress made in this context at the 24th meeting of the subsidiary bodies of the framework convention on climate change, held in bonn from 15 to 26 may 2006?
we know that it is still a waste from the global economic point of view and that a million farmers are now benefiting from it.
this is all the more so since, in the context of the strategy for the sustainable development of the octs proposed by the commission and as an instrument for pursuing one of its priority lines of action, the integration of these regions into their regional environment was envisaged in an action plan for the wider neighbourhood aimed at facilitating cooperation between the octs and their neighbouring countries.
it is of course essential to ensure a fair income for the producer - covering production costs and ensuring a sustainable life for him - as well as his involvement in the marketing process, among many other positive points which are written in this report.
to do this we must ensure that industrial firms (nama) and services have effective access to more dynamic markets, we must ensure respect for intellectual property and negotiate a level playing field in the environment and society that regulates international competition.
in the purchase of one of the many products covered by this proposal, european consumers will, among other things, be able to compare different regulatory models in dealing with such important issues as environmental, social and safety issues.
this proposal for a directive, which is precisely intended to abolish the so-called registration tax in the countries of the european union and replace it with an annual traffic tax, the amount of which will take account of carbon dioxide emissions, is fairer, more logical and more environmentally and economically friendly.
this is the right system, because it makes the price of vehicles more affordable, especially for the middle and lower classes, and allows the renewal of the car fleet, both from the environmental and road safety points of view.
a fair and balanced road tax is always better than an exaggerated tuition tax, for the environment, for the economy and for the citizens.
as you know, in countries with a coastline, pollution at sea knows no borders and ships do not usually choose where they sink.
economic zones can and should remain exclusive, but the sea is a common good and when there is an environmental tragedy it affects us all.
it makes perfect sense, therefore, that we should adopt a community approach to tackling the risks of marine pollution.
as our colleague luis de grandes pascual's report rightly argues, and i take the opportunity to welcome it, we need a sustained and long-term financial framework to ensure that the member states can prevent and use the up-to-date and appropriate technical means to protect our coasts from spills such as those which have occurred in the recent past, and, equally important, to enable those responsible for environmental crimes to be punished.
the eur 154 million allocated to the european maritime safety agency for the period 2007-2013 is expected to enable the implementation of the action plan against marine pollution, the establishment of a pool of specialised reserve vessels to act in the four priority areas and the creation of a satellite imaging service centre to support the activities of the member states and the european commission in combating shipwrecks, among other tasks in the fight against pollution.
the situation in portugal in august was particularly serious, with many tens of thousands of hectares of forest burned, several people killed and the destruction of an important environmental heritage, notably in the peneda-gerês national park and the serras d'aire and candeeiros natural park, as well as enormous material damage.
the drama of fires continues to affect several member states this year, with spain seemingly the hardest hit at the moment, with countless human tragedies, including loss of life and economic and environmental damage that is impossible to account for.
we all know that the problem of forest fires and other disasters cannot be solved overnight, especially when they are often due to complex combinations of causes, from climate to human, from negligence to crime, but we also know that their scale and their effects can be reduced if we give them the political priority they deserve.
with climate change and global warming, the future doesn't look any better.
this report provides an overview of the work of the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, in developing actions to improve maritime safety and prevent pollution caused by ships in the waters of the various eu countries.
this action is defined as supplementary to and in support of the action taken by the various coastal countries in combating and preventing marine pollution, in particular by contributing to improving its early detection, including the identification of those responsible.
the prevention and combating of marine pollution will be all the more effective if the various coastal countries are better equipped with the means - particularly public ones - to allow appropriate, rapid and effective action.
apart from other important aspects which should be assessed, this report proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to include not only situations of marine pollution caused by hydrocarbons but also all types of pollution caused by ships, including harmful liquid substances, which we consider to be positive.
the proposal now voted on is particularly important in view of the recent ecological disasters caused by spills from ships.
this proposal is of particular importance for portugal, which has a large exclusive economic zone, crossed by hundreds of ships every day, and a history of accidental spills and ecological disasters.
the commission's strategy to harmonise motor vehicle taxes dates from 2002. the main idea is to abolish the car registration tax the ia in portugal - and to gradually replace it with an increase in the traffic tax the stamp duty, with a differentiation of value based on co2 emissions.
underlying this is the idea that social security systems undermine economic performance and are not sustainable in the face of the demographic challenges of globalisation and global competition, insisting on deep structural reforms that in practice involve the dismantling of public social security systems, neglecting what has been the main instrument in defending social inclusion, combating poverty, inequalities in income distribution and sharing, job insecurity and unemployment, as well as promoting the dignity of those who work.
this agreement is part of the new partnership approach that the eu intends to implement in the external dimension of its common fisheries policy, thus providing for the development and improvement of fishing conditions in the union of the comoros, which should use part of the eu budget to secure new infrastructure and better technologies capable of ensuring a sustainable management of its fisheries resources.
greater involvement of the authorities of third countries in procedures for monitoring their resources with increased environmental concerns is one of the points i consider to be fundamental to the success of these new agreements.
we regret the rejection of our amendments, particularly those expressing our deep conviction that a state with a sound social protection system, based on high environmental, social and labour standards, with progressive taxation and redistribution of income and wealth generated is not detrimental to good economic performance.
we also find it unfortunate that the proposal in which we advocated a macroeconomic framework which supports sustainable development, with stronger and environmentally compatible domestic demand and full employment, in conditions which ensure economic and social cohesion, has been rejected.
we must comply with lisbon to ensure the economic coordination measures, employment and social protection policies that will ensure economic growth, increased competitiveness and the creation of more and better jobs in a sustainable way.
simplification of procedures, precise wording that is understandable to all parties involved, sufficient time between the adoption and implementation of legislation and the assessment of its economic, social and environmental impacts are issues that need to be clearly defined in the interests of transparency and fairness in the implementation of legislation.
at the root of the brutal aggressions against palestine and lebanon is the us project of domination of the middle east, which promotes interference and disregards sovereignty and international law, with the ambition of taking control of the geostrategic and the vast energy resources of this region.
(the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
there are no perfect reports and mr belder's report is no exception, but it contains important and relevant elements: firstly, it comprehensively covers the human rights situation and the political, economic, social, labour and environmental contradictions in china, which are particularly felt by minorities such as the tibetans and the uyghurs.
beijing has not committed itself to sustainable development, democratization and peace.
the rapporteur stresses that, according to regulation (ec) no 2371/2002, all fishing activities in the european union must by definition be sustainable insofar as they must comply with community standards, and therefore all fish caught on the basis of these standards will naturally be eco-labelled.
that said, any ecological labelling of fish caught based on any other criteria going beyond what is provided for in the existing legislation in the catch sector could lead to a discriminatory situation between producers, and we believe that ecological labelling would make sense, as it does for agriculture, in the case of aquaculture and processed products, where environmental and food safety problems can be put in the right place, as well as in relation to imported products in general, which would have to comply with the general community regulation on fishery products.
the fact that a number of high-quality eco-labelling programmes are emerging worldwide, and i will give an example of one in my country, the popa, which certifies tuna caught in the autonomous region of the azores, means that not all eco-labelling schemes are primarily aimed at protecting the biological heritage of our oceans, and that there are therefore diffuse economic interests which sometimes hide behind this type of labelling, which is why, in order to protect the environment and consumers, we must be extremely careful and assume our responsibilities as policy-makers.
i also share the congratulations which have been sent to our rapporteur from the committee on fisheries, and also to the rapporteur for the opinion which has been sent to us by the committee on the environment.
what seems to me absolutely decisive is what is stated in paragraph 8 of our resolution, which is also exactly what the environment committee says, namely that the label will only be fully effective if it is unique and understandable to the consumer, and this is not compatible with a system in which the commission plays a secondary role and in which advertising initiatives have more weight than a set of strict and objective criteria.
so from this point of view, i think we must have a strong centralised position, as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment has stressed, and we cannot compromise, otherwise we will lose this effort and initiative altogether.
the authorities of my country stress that heritage policy in rural areas must be based on three main pillars: a sustainable balance between the population and the environment, integrated action translated into real coordination between various sectors of the executive and local populations, and a permanent dialogue with the population as real stakeholders who are aware of their needs.
or when it 'expresses its concern about the growing disparities and unequal distribution of wealth, massive unemployment and uncontrolled urbanization, the increase in crime and corruption and the serious environmental problems in china', concerns which reveal the hypocrisy of those who, after all, have no moral compass to do so, see the brutal anti-social offensive promoted in the eu and the very serious deterioration of the social situation in different countries that are part of it.
on the one hand, it is a totalitarian state which shows no respect for human rights, has no concern whatsoever for humanity, the environment, integrated development, the promotion of freedom and respect for the minimum values required of the human community.
as the debate has shown, the creation of an ecological labelling of fish caught raises important questions.
the rapporteur says that one type of criterion could be based on objectivity - such as scientific analyses - which results from the application of community rules which aim to ensure that all fishing activities carried out in the different countries of the european union are sustainable.
it is what happens when you consider that there is some kind of marine pollution that leads to a ban on fishing.
we voted in favour of the report but regret that the proposal we made to the commission to request extraordinary community support to portugal, including financial support, to support the recovery of the burnt forest areas of the peneda-gerês national park and the serras d'aire and candeeiros natural park, because of their invaluable ecological, landscape and economic importance, was rejected.
not only do they cause enormous damage, but they also affect the way of life of the population, especially in the less prosperous regions, which have to cope with adverse effects on infrastructure, economic potential, employment, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and tourism, which has a negative impact on economic and social cohesion.
considering that rural areas cover about 90% of the territory of enlarged europe and constitute a precious reserve of natural life and cultural capital, it is essential to focus more on the development of local economies as a way of stopping desertification by encouraging and supporting, in particular, 'alternative and sustainable tourism' and safeguarding traditional knowledge and crafts.
i also believe that the value of this report lies in its emphasis on the concept of sustainable development, which is capable of encompassing a fundamental balance between local people and the environment, and in the integrated approach it advocates for traditionally agricultural areas.
the preservation of numerous elements of cultural heritage is the basis on which the social and economic development of many regions of europe should be based in the future, thus allowing better protection of the environment, better preservation of employment opportunities and better european integration, and avoiding abandonment and population desertification.
the quality of port wine is the result of all the knowledge accumulated by the people of the douro who, with a special climate and a specific sun, have built, over two hundred and fifty years on the slopes of the douro river, where this ancient demarcated and regulated region is located, a rich heritage that has been recognized by unesco as a world heritage site.
the high level of air pollution, especially in densely populated regions and urban centres in the eu, is responsible, among other factors, for numerous respiratory diseases and severe damage to ecosystems.
in the commission's initial proposal, the proposed pollution limit values represented a step backwards from the 1999 directive 1999/30/ec.
the document that has been finally adopted is therefore of limited scope, although it contains some positive proposals which seek to strike a balance in the fight against pollution, albeit in a mitigated way.
this proposal, which merges the existing provisions on air quality into a single directive 5 and adds ambition to the existing provisions, is therefore of great importance in the context of the simplification of environmental legislation.
any improvement in mobility in the fields of education and training makes an unambiguous contribution to the realisation of a knowledge-based economy, job creation and sustainable development, the cornerstones of the lisbon strategy.
i voted in favour of the hegyi report (a6-0233/2006) on a thematic strategy for the urban environment because it is essential to promote the overall environmental performance of cities in europe by reducing red tape, enhancing the effectiveness of environmental policy implementation and encouraging long-term environmental planning.
considering that some 80% of the european population live in cities, but that their needs and interests do not always merit due attention in the framework of european union funds, projects, initiatives and strategies, a higher level of demand is needed at the level of community legislation with a view to increasing the quality of life of the inhabitants of europe's cities, in particular through the adoption of urban management plans for sustainable urban transport.
the report adopted today in the european parliament has positive aspects which we support, such as the more widespread use of environmentally friendly transport, the encouragement of the use of public transport, the reduction of building density, more green space in urban areas, the rehabilitation of degraded buildings and in particular of historic centres, and a higher environmental performance of buildings in terms of insulation and the use of renewable energy.
it is also important, as the report states, to promote the exchange of best practice at community level on sustainable urban management strategy and plans and to increase citizen participation in public debates during their development.
accessibility is central to sustainable development.
as there are many ideas that try to solve the environmental and congestion problems that our cities suffer from, i think it is the consequences for public health and quality of life, in terms of socioeconomic dynamism, that we should be concerned about.
the idea of sustainable urban transport plans is undoubtedly important, but we cannot forget the need to use this instrument in a flexible way and adapted to the specificities of each city.
the use of environmentally friendly modes of transport and technologies is also a key factor in achieving a cleaner urban environment.
only by taking measures appropriate to the specific situations of each member state can we ensure the sustainable future of our cities and the harmonious growth of our societies.
part one
question no 33 by avril doyle (h-0756/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: emissions trading scheme 2008-2012 - national allocation plans with regard to the european emissions trading scheme for the period 2008-2012, can the commission comment on the fact that the deadline for all member states to submit their national allocation plans and for the commission to submit its report on these plans, which had been set for 30 june 2006, expired without these requirements having been met?
how does the commission intend to ensure that the second emissions trading scheme is ready and operational by 2008?
the rapporteur's work was essential in ensuring that several european parliament positions on issues such as sustainable development, the urban dimension, equal opportunities, renewable energy, etc., were welcomed by the council, which is one of the reasons why this recommendation for a favourable opinion of the european parliament is being made.
the main difficulty facing the community fleet at the moment is the apparent lack of means of controlling and monitoring the guinean eez, particularly outside the 12 miles, which translates into illegal practices that put the sustainability of the fishing activity of the community fleet at risk.
this extension maintains the fishing opportunities of the european fleet and is intended to enable the government of guinea-bissau to guarantee the eu conditions for good fishing practices, taking into account the sustainability of the resources exploited.
at the same time, it whitewashes the effects of the sectoral liberalisations carried out to date, such as in transport, energy and communications, when, contrary to what is claimed and demonstrated by many user and consumer protection associations, liberalisation has led to greater difficulties in access and quality of services provided, to price increases and to the destruction of thousands of jobs under the pretext of sectoral restructuring.
the common fisheries policy pursued to date must be reversed so that it recognises the specific characteristics of each country's fisheries and its right to develop fishing activities in a sustainable way by recovering fisheries resources, with a primary focus on feeding the population, full employment and improving the social conditions of workers, as well as the sustainability of businesses.
madam president, commissioner, the energy-intensive sector of fisheries is particularly affected by the rise in fuel prices, which is a problem that accentuates an economic situation that is already sometimes quite precarious.
as the fao handbook for the conservation of fishery quality points out, the first principle of a sustainable fisheries policy is to avoid the tragedy of the commons, that is, that what has no known owner, be it buffalo or fish, everyone will rush to exploit and ultimately destroy.
and that is why only through the responsibility and direct commitment of fishermen can we think of improving their economic situation in a sustainable way.
the cfp aims to ensure and maintain a balance between the economic and social development of fishing communities and the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
i do not mean that we should forget the sustainability of resources for the sake of the economic viability of the sector, because that would be damaging to the environmental sustainability and the future of these fishermen.
i would also recall that the prohibition of shark finning practices is not the only way to ensure a sustainable fishery for these species.
as rightly pointed out in parliament’s motion for a resolution, the commission has identified numerous actions to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond, including community plans of action for sharks and sea birds.
secondly, because the commission believes it would be unwieldy to start revising the fin to body weight ratio or introducing some species-specific approach to the shark finning regulation without new measures to ensure sustainable shark fishing.
i am committed to advances in the area of shark conservation and other aspects of marine biodiversity, and will inform you in due time of the progress made.
so this is a targeted fishery for a species like any other, which puts the issue of the sustainability of the resource on a par with what happens to other fish, so the question of feeding catches does not fall within the scope of this report but within the framework of quotas or even recovery plans according to the usual scientific reports.
the compromise solution reached by the three largest political groups ensures that the european parliament understands that this is the way forward, thus responding to the studies already carried out by recognised bodies of which the european union is a part, and ensuring, on the other hand, that the conditions for compliance with the law are met, thus contributing to a truly sustainable and regulated fisheries.
mr president, the lahti agenda contains very important issues such as energy policy, illegal immigration, competitiveness and innovation.
at a time when europe is facing the effects of climate change and high oil prices, there is an urgent need to improve energy efficiency and reduce dependence on fossil fuels for the sake of the economy, the environment and the quality of life of european citizens.
the european union must diversify its energy sources and suppliers, giving priority to renewable energy sources, in order to comply with the kyoto protocol.
mr president, first of all let me welcome the broad support that was given for the agenda for innovation, for a european institute of technology, for a common energy policy and for a european immigration policy.
that is why i hope to have your support when we come forward next week with a practical proposal on the eit, and i hope for your support when in january we come forward with a really ambitious energy package.
we cannot discuss energy with them in a serious manner if we have 25 different energy policies.
the first thing to do if we want to be seen from outside as credible, is to put our own house in order and to have a real joint approach to energy.
but i strongly agree that the fight against climate change is a crucial element in our energy policy and we should recall that the european union is a key player in that field.
but what all these issues show – from innovation to immigration, to energy, to the fight against climate change – is a strong argument for europe.
the next european council, in addition to important items on the international situation, includes on its agenda the so-called 'innovation policy', the proposal for a 'common energy policy' and 'illegal immigration', topics for which working documents have not yet been submitted.
these products also benefit from a total or almost total absence of social and environmental regulation, which accounts for a significant part of the production costs in the countries of the european union.
this experience has been very valuable from this point of view and i would appeal to the european commission not to let it go to waste because it would be very bad for the whole of the european union.
we support a number of ideas in the report, including: the protection of animals is a sign of humanity; extending the scope of european animal welfare policy beyond farm animals; taking account of the regional and environmental specificities of the european union; advocating a cross-cutting animal welfare policy that includes legislation, vocational training, financial support and scientific research.
i myself was rapporteur for a report on the european strategy for responding to natural disasters, initiated by the committee on the environment, in which i argued for the need for the union to have more rapid and effective instruments for responding to major emergencies.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, and that the commission should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
prevention and treatment of breast cancer should also be a priority of the 7th framework programme for research, at a time when studies indicate that, in addition to genetic factors, environmental and lifestyle factors favour the development of breast cancer.
the council's common position, which is the subject of this report, differs significantly from the commission's initial proposal of 2004, notably the inclusion of the 'nature and biodiversity' component, the objectives of which are, inter alia, to support the continued development and implementation of the natura 2000 network, including coastal and marine species and habitats, and in particular to achieve the objective of halting the loss of biodiversity in the community by 2010. the inclusion of this component in the life+ programme is in line with the position adopted by the european parliament at first reading in july 2005, which we regard as positive.
the life+ programme and its predecessors are the main instrument for financing projects in the environmental field in the european union.
the european parliament reintroduces the value initially agreed, in accordance with the financial perspective, for the financing of the natura 2000 network for the conservation of nature and biodiversity.
the amendment aims to ensure that european funds for the environment are not used for other purposes related to the life+ programme, such as staff costs, as it provides for delegation of project management to the member states, instead of the usual management by seconded staff.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
we know that the fundamental objectives of civil protection are the prevention of collective risks and the occurrence of major accidents or disasters resulting from them, and therefore the need to mitigate collective risks and limit their effects in the event of occurrence, to rescue and assist people and other living beings in danger, to protect property and other cultural, environmental and public interest assets and to support the restoration of normalcy in the lives of the people affected.
in this respect, i believe that the union can easily find its basic line in its external energy policy.
it is worth remembering that we only started the debate on external energy relations at the european council level last march at the dinner of the austrian presidency summit.
we came to the conclusion that the union also needs an external energy policy.
finland, as the next presidency, was given the task of drawing up this external energy policy together with the commission, and that is what we are doing.
we will define this external energy policy in the coming months as the union's policy, not only towards russia but towards all our partners and all third countries.
as regards investment, i would like to point out that european companies have already invested tens of billions of euros in the russian energy sector.
we have asked that the fight against climate change and europe's leading role in the field of renewable energy, environmentally friendly energy, be among the first priorities of this institute.
energy is undoubtedly the question of the future, not only from an economic but also from a political point of view.
i see energy as a great unifying factor.
that is why we presented a green paper on sustainable energy a few months ago and we were very pleased with the support given by the european council to the idea of a common approach to energy.
this approach is very important when considering our responsibilities to our planet and to future generations: climate change is perhaps the greatest challenge of the 21st century.
but it is also very important from an economic point of view, as it is true that we must retain the possibility of being the first movers, of being at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
i therefore see great ambition in this dossier and i can assure mr turmes in particular that it is in this spirit that we are preparing the energy package to be presented in january.
you have already seen the first sign of this in the proposal we have just tabled on energy efficiency.
as prime minister vanhanen said, the lahti council paved the way for the formal decisions on energy which we hope to get at the spring council, which will already be under the german presidency.
i therefore hope that now, with the vigilant support of the european parliament, the conditions will be in place, during the finnish presidency and beyond, to take forward these very important issues of energy and innovation, and to take forward our project of a more united europe.
it encourages cooperation between citizens and their organisations from different countries, so that they can meet, act together and develop their own ideas in a european environment that transcends a purely national vision and respects their diversity.
it also provides for the drawing up of inventories of products in which pfos are used by each member state in order to prevent releases of these substances into the environment.
i agree in particular with the amendment which proposes that current derogations can only be maintained if there are no safer substances or technologies that are technically and economically feasible and if the best available techniques are applied to minimise pfos emissions.
the following is the oral question to the commission on climate change in nairobi, tabled by mr florenz on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0100/2006 - b6-0440/2006).
the structural, economic and social situation of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions and the adoption of the new european fisheries fund require the extension of the derogations provided for in regulation (ec) no 639/2004 as regards the criteria and conditions for structural actions relating to the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the cfp.
since it is of the utmost importance for the future of a sustainable transport policy that we adopt measures to re-balance the transport modes, i consider the development of the inland waterway transport market to be significant, since it can, from its development stage, include all the strategic areas important for the optimum development of this market.
both the acquisition of shares, and the investment in contrast, genetic improvement or environmental obligations, require a review of six to eight years, which is why what the policy makers say today has repercussions until 2014-2015. it comes from a region in the azores, which accounts for 30% of portugal's milk production, where milk is the main source of wealth and where there are no alternatives in the medium term, which is why i am even more sensitive to these changes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by its contribution to employment, to doubling gdp over the next two decades, sesar will be a key priority for the union and its member states and an indispensable condition for meeting the challenges of the next few decades: ensuring the safety and fluidity of air transport at european and world level, improving the functioning of the market and competitiveness, improving the management of environmental effects, improving european cohesion.
countries with corrupt governments are governed by rules, criteria and interests that are incompatible with those of sustainable development, cooperation and peace.
i voted in favour of the report by mrs marie-nöelle lienemann (a6-0373/2006) on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environment policy, because this 'marine environment strategy' directive will make it possible to give the necessary effect to the 6th environment action programme on the promotion of the sustainable use of the seas and marine ecosystems.
the development of national marine strategies - with the aim of achieving good environmental status and protecting and maintaining the most vulnerable marine ecosystems and biological diversity - will allow the maintenance of activities in the marine environment at sustainable levels that do not compromise the uses and activities of future generations, nor the ability of marine ecosystems to respond to natural and human-induced changes.
we consider it important to take the initiative of establishing a framework for action in the field of marine environment policy, with the appropriate financial means.
because of its strategic importance, it is essential that member states define environmental assessment strategies and objectives for their marine environment, in collaboration with other member states and third countries, as this is an area where the actions of some may affect others.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the proposal for a 'marine environment directive' aims to establish a high level of protection for europe's seas and oceans, a greater knowledge of the same heritage about which there is still so much to discover and define a management strategy with an integrated approach and with qualitative and quantitative objectives to reduce pressures on marine resources and their ecosystems.
the approval of the change in the deadline for achieving the set objectives (from 2021 to 2017) proposed by the epp shows the ambition with which parliament is dealing with this issue and how involved it is in the pursuit of a 'good environmental status' for the marine environment.
the other measures proposed by the epp to ensure the sustainable implementation of economic activities involving seas and oceans, the protection of biodiversity and the prevention of pollution are also of great importance, substantially improving the european commission's proposal... (the minutes were approved)
in writing.
we welcome the initiative of a policy for the marine environment in the framework of the necessary cooperation and coordination between the different countries, safeguarding their full sovereignty over their territory and resources, and taking into account economic, social and environmental aspects.
the conservation of fisheries resources is threatened, in particular, by marine pollution and intensive maritime transport, which have impacts on fishing activity.
fishermen are therefore the main stakeholders in the protection and regeneration of the marine environment.
i voted in favour of the maría sornosa martínez report (a6-0287/2006) on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market of certain measuring instruments containing mercury, because, given the high toxicity of this substance to humans, ecosystems and nature, it is important to define restrictions on the marketing of these products, which will prevent the entry of considerable quantities of mercury into the waste stream and contribute to a higher level of protection of the environment and human health.
the rapporteur is not satisfied with this, but he also advocates the liberalisation of services and energy, the strict application of the stability pact, and compliance with the lisbon agenda, i.e.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
question no 13 by mr liam aylward (h-0904/06) subject: energy efficiency programmes in the european union can the council indicate what measures it is taking at european union level to promote energy efficiency programmes?
'climate change is not a matter of science fiction,' said kofi annan today at the opening of the climate change conference in nairobi.
insurance experts have predicted that economic losses from natural disasters could reach 2.3 trillion euros by 2040. climate change is at the root of the natural disasters that have occurred around the world, leaving a trail of destruction and death.
global warming is one of the great problems of our time.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in this direction, the eu must, by all means in its power, promote entrepreneurship and smes in particular, because: - they play a key role in the european economy, contributing to stronger and more sustainable growth; - they are responsible for about 95% of the jobs created;- they can serve as an effective meeting point between universities and businesses;- they provide a vital link between the realities of production and its territorial dimension, helping to manage the phenomena of relocation.
the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the following is the report by mrs kathy sinnott, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a council recommendation on injury prevention and safety promotion (com (2006) 0329 - c6-0238/2006 - 2006/0106 (cns)) (a6-0398/2006).
risk factors are also determined by the home and work environment itself.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i would like to reaffirm the socioeconomic importance of the banana sector for the outermost regions and its contribution to the objective of economic and social cohesion, by the income and employment it generates, by the economic activities it promotes upstream and downstream, and by the maintenance of the ecological and landscape balance which contributes to the development of tourism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal, as amended by the report by mr jean-claude fruteau, whom i congratulate on the quality of his work, deserves my full support in view of the objectives pursued, which are the following: maintaining community banana production by the indispensable contribution it makes in terms of employment, economic and social development and environmental protection in the producing regions and, in particular, in the outermost regions.
in the outermost regions, banana production is of unquestionable economic, social and, in particular, environmental importance.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
we abstained from the compromise vote, which was agreed by the two largest political groups in the ep (epp and pse), because we believe that it does not meet the legitimate rights and concerns of consumers, small and mediumsized enterprises, the protection of workers and the protection of the environment.
we believe that the necessary balance between the protection of workers' health, the protection of the environment and industrial development has not been fully achieved.
in any case, we must follow the interests of consumers, for they are as concerned with maintaining a competitive industry as with protecting the environment.
we sometimes waste time on matters that do not have the size and significance of this issue, and we sometimes lack the time to apply our commitment to what is most important for our economy.
this new proposal seeks to fill serious gaps in our current knowledge of chemicals on the market, while at the same time trying to boost european industry and provide greater protection for human health and the environment.
i think this is a moderate legislative proposal which has sought to strike a balance between safeguarding the legitimate interests of industry, particularly smes, and the necessary protection of the environment and public health.
the reach regulation will ensure, as from june 2007, that substances of very high concern from an environmental and public health point of view are replaced wherever possible by safer alternative substances or technologies.
new technologies and scientific discoveries allow us to aim for a high level of environmental protection, which allows us to bet on these new segments of the automobile market.
we cannot ignore the environmental challenges we face today, nor should we ignore that there is a new market developing in the area of clean fuels.
once again, the functioning of the internal market, the promotion of environmentally sustainable development and the improvement of the living conditions of citizens are at stake.
we also criticise the commission for not proposing initiatives to improve social policy and for insisting on liberalization in various sectors, particularly in services and the energy market.
it is true that the commission is the driving force behind the community institutions, but it is also true that when the member states are entangled in their internal problems, in their difficulties, energy is lost.
that said, it must be admitted that by placing the emphasis on economic issues (as well as, more specifically, on the technological and, equally strategic, energy issue), this commission shows that it has understood what the priorities should be, without giving the institutional dimension more importance than it actually has.
on the other hand, the continuing commitment to better regulation also shows an understanding of the need to simplify the legislative environment.
in addition to the armed actions in its geopolitical sphere of influence, i cannot but also criticise the trade and energy mechanisms used by russia as a means of putting pressure on its neighbours and which constitute genuine discretionary sanctions.
while promoting political interference and pressure on russia - and other countries in eastern europe and the caucasus, including belarus - big business in the eu is seeking full access to russia's vast energy resources.
it is symptomatic that in our meetings with the representatives of the future presidencies, especially germany, the institutional question comes first, followed by the completion of the internal market and energy.
the way in which they devalue social and environmental issues is also symptomatic, and there is no thought of revising the statutes and guidelines of the european central bank, despite the serious consequences of its policy on the weakest economies, households and micro and smes.
question no 6 by danute budreikaite (h-0973/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy prospects in lithuania among the new member states, lithuania is among those most dependent on russia for its energy supplies, which it uses for political purposes.
lithuania can only cover its internal energy supply needs in terms of electricity, 80% of which is produced by the ignalina nuclear power plant, which is due to be closed in 2009. decision no 1364/2006/ec oj l 262, 22.9.2006, p. 1 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2006 laying down guidelines for trans-european energy networks provides for the construction of a link between poland and lithuania (elk-alytus).
however, the town of elk in poland has no developed energy infrastructure and no high-voltage power line connecting it to the western energy grids.
this link does not solve the problem of lithuania's connection to the eu energy system.
in addition, it will not be possible to build a new nuclear power plant in lithuania before 2014. the absence of a common eu energy policy and common energy networks (electricity and gas), coupled with the lack of solidarity among eu member states, increase the risk of lithuania being isolated from electricity suppliers.
lithuania has signed protocol no 4 on the ignalina nuclear power plant, annexed to the act of accession to the european union, in which it undertakes to definitively close unit 1 of the plant by 2005 and unit 2 of the plant by 2009. without prejudice to the undertaking given, the safeguard clause referred to in article 37 of the act of accession shall apply until 31 december 2012 in the event of a disruption of energy supply in lithuania.
in view of the uncertainty of this situation, can lithuania not invoke article 37 of the act of accession to extend the operation of the ignalina nuclear power plant for as long as safety rules allow and until the country's energy problems are resolved?
question no 7 by avril doyle (h-0974/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the use of pesticides in the light of the recent cop12 meeting, the conclusions of the environment council meeting of 23 october 2006 and the conclusions of the agriculture and fisheries council meeting of 24 and 25 october 2006, does the council not agree that all post-2012 agreements should include the prevention of deforestation?
maritime safety is of the utmost importance to the european union, not only because of accidents such as the prestige and their socioeconomic and environmental consequences, but also because of the need to prevent further tragedies, which result in threats to the sustainability of our seas and territories.
this report, which has been adopted, is unfortunately in full accordance with the commission's proposal, expressing what they understand as a 'european energy strategy': liberalisation, control of sources of supply and supply and the threat to the sovereignty of the people.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european energy market, which would be a market for energy, and to set up a european energy market for energy, which would be a market for energy, and to set up a european energy market for energy.
in the absence of a genuine policy to overcome energy dependence on fossil fuels and excessive energy consumption, the 'market' appears as the solution.
we also consider it unacceptable that the solution to pollution problems should be an emissions trading system, since it does not contribute to the reduction of 'greenhouse gases'.
the path indicated for a common external energy policy is also a new threat to the sovereignty of the most dependent states, the contrary... (abbreviated explanation of vote pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing.
the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy is the basis for the action plan for the european energy strategy, to be presented in early 2007. this document is of great importance as it plays a key role in issues such as combating climate change, environmental pollution, the misuse of natural resources and the security of energy supply.
the report sets out very clear objectives: a 20% share of energy produced in the eu from renewable sources by 2020 and 50% by 2040; a 30% reduction in european carbon emissions by 2020 and a minimum of 60% by 2050. the objective set by the green paper on energy efficiency of reducing european consumption by 20% by 2020 is also recalled.
in the field of renewable energy, the focus is on marine resources (waves, tides and the enormous potential of offshore wind) and solar energy.
the commission is also asked to undertake an independent analysis of the potential and the shortcomings of nuclear energy and its generating stations.
despite its shortcomings and even some contradictions, there are positive aspects in this report, particularly in the area of the defence of alternative and renewable energies.
however, we insist that it must be borne in mind that biofuels are not in a position to solve the serious problems of energy dependence in a lasting way, as they have a localized technical interest and a limited impact.
we therefore do not support the excessive emphasis on the promotion of energy crops which are the basis for obtaining biofuels, since such crops use scarce production factors such as water and soil, as well as various fertilizers.
we therefore consider that the most important thing would be community support for the promotion of biomass and biofuels produced from various types of organic waste, such as forestry waste, waste from waste water treatment, solid and municipal waste and edible oils.