it is very important to create a favourable business environment, to promote the entrepreneurial spirit of women and to ensure the availability of micro-credit for them to set up their own businesses.
strong traditionalism confined domestic violence to the intimate family environment.
on the one hand, we are naturally interested in ensuring that state aid granted in individual member states does not distort the natural competitive environment.
these are precisely the areas where well-targeted public resources can be invested with a high rate of return in the form of sustainable development and increased competitiveness of the european economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises.
in europe, there are only a few regions in a few countries that have set successful strategies and embarked on the path of renewable energy production.
i would like to stress that incentives for investors who go the renewable route are essential.
to conclude, one example: in the city where i have been mayor for the last seven years, we now produce 15% of our energy from renewable sources.
i would like to highlight the work of the shadow rapporteur, malcolm harbour, who, by agreement between the right-wing and liberal groups, has managed to maintain the country of origin rule called freedom to provide services, with member states having the possibility of reserving the service provider for reasons of health and environmental protection.
migrant workers have helped to eliminate labour market gaps, helped to expand the shortage of skilled labour in a given environment, reduced the potential for illegal work and, overall, contributed to better economic efficiency in europe.
ladies and gentlemen, of course, free movement of workers alone is not a solution to the sustainability of a particular state's social model.
models that are not efficient are not sustainable in the face of the growing strain on public finances due to globalisation, technological change and population ageing.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
there is a clear need to improve the collection of amalgam waste in dental clinics, but not to seek to eliminate mercury amalgam from dental practice.
when you see the enormous energy that europe is putting into re-shaping its migration policy, i believe that you have to be very confused about the problem of child poverty in europe.
in the context of the european union's geopolitical strategy, i would like to highlight an important (though well-known) fact, which is the complete dependence of most of the new member states on oil and gas supplies from russia, in contrast to most of the old member states, where energy supplies are more diversified.
the new member states are particularly sensitive to the security of energy supply.
in particular, in the area of electricity supply, several new member states have an energy mix dominated by nuclear power generation.
i personally agree with the principle of subsidiarity in the development of this type of energy, but i cannot ignore the principle of solidarity, which will enable individual member states to develop this type of energy at least without external negative interference.
i welcome the commission's initiatives to promote research in this area with a view to obtaining even safer forms of nuclear energy, such as research into recycling or fusion technologies and the like.
the green paper on energy strongly favours the role of renewable energy sources.
however, the commission must accept responsibly the fact that some member states want to continue developing nuclear energy, mainly for two reasons: firstly, the potential for the development of renewable sources in these countries is low and their long-term sustainability cannot be counted on, and secondly, they have very good experience with energy that is safe, environmentally acceptable and, when using new technologies, also sustainable in the long term.
in my speech, i would like to highlight some of the ideas that emerge from the resolution on the state of the energy economy in the context of the wider economic policy objectives for 2006. without making any unnecessary fuss about the slowdown in economic activity in europe, these points strike at the heart of the problem.
if we deduce from this the low level of investment in research, technological development and innovation and add the high energy dependence of most member states, it is difficult to expect a more significant increase in the competitiveness of the european economy compared to major global players such as the usa and china.
the harmonisation of european legislation must promote a competitive environment, not hinder its development.
the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy should also be welcomed.
of course, the rule must be that improvements in legislation must not lead to a weakening of environmental, social and consumer standards.
europe is and will be in energy distress.
in this connection, we must not forget a very important factor: the russian relations, the close cooperation between the lukashenko system and the russian federation, the economic and energy dependence of the lukashenko system and belarus on the russians.
the devastated environment and the plight of people suffering from incurable diseases are a warning to us.
in my earlier report on the effects of globalisation on the internal market, i had already pointed out the need to create a healthy environment for smes and to ensure their access to financial instruments, in particular access to risk capital at the early stages of their development.
this report is an important signal to the business community that the european parliament is keen to create a stimulating business environment for start-up smes with a unique idea and a lack of financial resources to realize their ambitions, thus ensuring a promising future for them.
the guidelines developed in the context of the new approach address only the essential requirements for safety, consumer protection and environmental protection.
i am convinced that european standardisation is one of the tools that helps to create a favourable business environment.
by defining mandatory essential requirements, they also guarantee a high level of consumer, health and environmental protection.
common rules for the common understanding and implementation of technical standardisation are very important tools for creating and securing the conditions, policy implementation and competitiveness and sustainable development of the community, as underlined in the revised lisbon strategy.
article 179 is not able to cover the broad scope of development and economic cooperation, for example it cannot cover sectoral cooperation in some areas such as transport and energy.
experience shows that enforcing member states' obligations, especially on environmental policy, is often lengthy and often involves proceedings before the european court of justice.
inefficient landfilling, illegal dumping of often very hazardous waste, industrial activities, agricultural activities and unconstructed sewerage systems all threaten the quality of groundwater and, consequently, the health of the population.
at the same time, however, the implementation of this legislation would need to be monitored by effective monitoring by the european environment agency.
however, this is where the pollution is most pronounced, since this is the area where the sewer system is not in place.
i welcome the commission's proposal to more than double the eu's research budget in the next financial period, to improve the regulatory and administrative environment, in particular through the transparency of the evaluation process and the minimisation of project preparation costs.
we need new technologies in the environment, in transport, in energy.
the main causes of flooding are natural phenomena and, ultimately, climate change.
i am convinced that the commission could encourage those member states whose legislative environment does not allow them to change this situation.
i see this programme as the 'chef' of the lisbon strategy and it is my hope that the funding for science and research will help europe to retain the scientific minds that will produce high-quality projects to improve the quality of life of european union citizens in the fields of environment, transport, energy and health.
a prerequisite for the establishment of a framework for a good business environment is a sufficient amount of resources from the budget of the european union.
the european commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of passenger cars is intended to respond to the wide disparities in the taxation of cars within eu member states and also to the environmental pollution caused by emissions from passenger cars.
the european commission is proposing to abolish registration taxes on passenger cars and replace them with taxes linked to carbon dioxide emissions.
the introduction of the new tax would thus lead to an increase in the tax burden of natural persons, and in addition, the combination of the carbon dioxide component in the calculation of the annual tax on the operation of a passenger car may not lead to the purchase of new cars with a lower environmental impact.
i'm going to look at this problem from the perspective of the work environment, which is one of the causes of mental health deterioration.
the ep's discussion of this report confirms that it is not indifferent to the sustainable development of europe's rural areas.
it is a known fact that air pollution reduces the average life span of people by as much as nine months.
air pollution is the cause of many respiratory and other diseases.
on the other hand, the eu must also adopt standards that are transparent and pay attention to limiting emissions by pollutants.
i consider it an important role for the european union to adopt european legislation that ensures the improvement of the formal and informal rules of the business environment.
selling children is a counterproductive waste of one's own potential and a degradation of the support of the family.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
in this context, i would like to draw your attention to the need for greater cooperation between small and large actors in the field of research and development on the one hand, and the need to increase the internal competitive environment on the other.
energy security is one of the political priorities of the new financial perspective and the 2007 budget of the european union.
our objective in this area is to transform an ambitious unsustainable fossil fuel-based energy system into a sustainable system based on diverse energy sources, to improve energy efficiency, security of supply, to prevent climate change, to increase the competitiveness of european businesses in the energy sector and thus in other sectors.
the european union strategy and the european budget are important factors that can help address europeans' bleak prospects for sustainable, stable and affordable energy in the future.
this form of cooperation can also aim at closing regional gaps and at the sustainable development of europe's poor regions.
the share of energy and raw material-intensive production in several of these countries is higher than in the euro area countries.
for the structural reasons mentioned above, the new member states are more sensitive to movements in energy and raw material prices, but at the same time they create a buffer zone that cushions price impacts in the euro area.
i also welcome this report on the presence and limitation of mercury in the environment.
we all have to agree that if there is a substitute, then the mercury-containing measuring device must be removed from the environment.
i therefore support the rapporteur's view that these medical devices should not be covered by the directive, as they will reduce the burden on the environment but will put the lives of patients at risk.
however, the priority that we must focus on in this legislative proposal is to reduce the mercury content of municipal waste.
however, the host member state will require the application of its own legislation if this is in the interests of, for example, public policy, public security, health protection, the environment, etc.
the proposal reflects the efforts to create a customs and trade environment based on increased efficiency of customs procedures through the exchange of information, the elimination of administrative burdens and the facilitation of trade at both european and international level.
the european commission's clean air for europe programme has identified a number of sectors that contribute the most to environmental pollution.
i understand the argument that the adoption of euro 6 standards already in this proposal will provide certainty for manufacturers as to when and by how much emissions from cars have to be reduced.
on the other hand, we have to look at the current situation in the long term and we find that over the last three decades, emissions from motor vehicles have been steadily declining sharply, for example by up to 95% for particulate matter.
let me touch on the issues that concern the need to increase the level of liberalisation of the energy market.
it must be accepted that member states formally respect the relevant directives on the (ownership) separation of energy production, transmission and distribution and that they implement those directives appropriately.
nevertheless, we do not see any significant changes in the energy market in the member states.
the lack of a competitive environment continues, with the monopoly position of the parent companies already in the separated activities of the energy chain prevailing.
the entry of new energy companies is often blocked, from protectionist efforts to disproportionate regulatory intervention by the state with a negative impact on energy prices and investment in research and technological development.
i call on the commission to continue to encourage individual member states to take more decisive action to increase the competitive environment and remove administrative barriers in order to open up energy markets more effectively.
i would also like to highlight another important aspect, namely the disproportionate interference of the state in the activities of regulatory authorities, especially in the area of price regulation, which is aggravating the process of liberalisation of the energy sector.
nuclear energy is an important pillar of providing stable and clean electricity in the world.
it is desirable that the community also provide assistance for nuclear installations under construction, in operation and decommissioned, and, where appropriate, support the improvement of safety in the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel.