the aarhus convention was hailed at its inception as one of the most ambitious achievements of democracy in the field of human environment protection, not only because it enshrined a new generation's human right, that is, the right of people to a healthy and quality life, but also because of the logical assumption that involving citizens would raise the level of environmental protection, first in the adoption of measures and then in their implementation.
rules should be laid down under which the authorities must share environmental information with the public, who should then be able to seek enforcement of the standards in the courts as a last resort.
we're talking about the implementation rules of participatory environmental democracy.
the commission has also provided, on the basis of the aarhus convention, for certain non-governmental organisations to have a right of access to the highest judicial instance, the european court of justice, in order to better implement environmental legislation.
the logical corollary to the finding on this regulation is that ngos play an important role in environmental protection.
half-hearted approaches to environmental enforcement efforts or the exclusion of certain areas of the work of the european institutions from democratic scrutiny would send the wrong political signal to member states.
it is possible that this would reduce rather than increase their responsibility for implementing environmental legislation.
i support the clearly expressed political will not to be satisfied with the status quo for pragmatic reasons, but to actively support the development of democracy, respect for human rights and the development of a social market economy on a sustainable basis in our neighbourhood.
the experience of energy supply has taught us that national policies alone will not bring us more security from within or more influence from without.
the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources is a direct implementation of the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
it puts the emphasis on the environment, the promotion of innovation and the infrastructure needed to enable europe's competitiveness and independent growth.
renewable energy is the european union's natural wealth, reducing our dependence on imports and improving our environment.
their use also increases the diversity of energy sources and improves the reliability of energy supply.
we need to use them not only for electricity generation but also for heating and cooling buildings, since this alone accounts for more than 40% of all energy use in europe.
a recent eurobarometer survey showed that people support a common european energy policy.
the targets should be set in the light of the natural characteristics of each country, since not all countries have the same conditions, for example, for the use of solar energy or biomass.
using wood as a natural material reduces the energy used to produce the final product, reduces greenhouse gas emissions and also retains carbon dioxide that has accumulated in the wood over many years.
let me conclude by saying that it is wise to use only wood waste that is unsuitable for recycling for energy purposes, and to convert the rest into useful raw materials.
the european energy policy must be designed accordingly.
energy is the basis of our activities and the basis for success in implementing our policies.
the energy situation will be a major factor in how and whether we can achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
commissioner, you are aware of this situation and have therefore stepped up your work and published this month the green paper on a common european energy policy.
is it not high time we looked for answers to the questions: how to ensure a safe and sufficient supply of energy at competitive prices while taking care of the environment?
what should our energy mix be in the future?
how stable are the areas from which we can import energy resources?
how does their use affect the environment, etc.?
the answers must realistically assess the contribution of individual primary energy sources to the overall european energy mix and give a fair assessment of the efficiency of existing technologies and the potential of emerging new technologies, including taking into account the natural resources of the member states.
i would like to stress in particular that nuclear energy cannot and must no longer be a taboo subject in the european political space.
nuclear energy already today does not cause greenhouse gas emissions, allows the import of uranium from different countries, including politically stable countries, and has a stable and competitive price precisely because of this.
future r&d work is expected to further improve its efficiency, reduce the amount of radioactive waste and increase safety.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
we legislate for many reasons: for example, to protect health by ensuring food safety, to protect the environment by setting standards for air and water quality, to provide rules for companies operating in the internal market so that they can compete on equal terms, avoiding any discrimination.
since 2003, the commission has put in place a system to look at the economic, social and environmental impact of all its major proposals.
the programme, already under way in the automotive, waste and construction sectors, will be reviewed and updated in consultation with stakeholders.
the rapporteur, ms roth-behrendt, has recorded in detail the member states' positions when commenting for the committee on the environment on the proposed amendment to the 2001 regulation, and the british and austrian presidencies have also been actively involved in the exchange of views.
as regards monitoring climate change and its consequences, i am more in favour of better cooperation between existing research and scientific institutions and the financing of new joint programmes than of new joint institutions, which usually require a lot of money - they are easy to set up, difficult to dismantle - and i am in favour of taking the principles of proportionality very seriously, in addition to the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity.
demography and energy are the areas of greatest importance for europe in the coming decades, but also the most problematic.
demography and energy must be at the forefront of future european research.
but let me return to the energy sector, where we are facing increasing problems of security of supply, energy dependence and the implementation of the kyoto protocol.
from the perspective of long-term action planning, the focus will certainly be on fission research and the construction of the iter nuclear reactor, which opens up new dimensions in energy research into the potential of nuclear energy globally.
research into renewable energy and nuclear fission can provide an appropriate response to our medium-term demand for reliable, clean and competitive energy.
for now, europe is still the leading power in the energy sector, but we must be aware of one thing: if we want to maintain our leading role in this field on a global scale in the future, we must look at energy as one sector.
one area, although the energy sector is defined in several european treaties.
it is precisely because ideas can spread like wildfire, especially in a deteriorating economic climate, that we have a duty to call attention to the illegality of homophobic and racist behaviour.
it is now considering in earnest how it can best adapt to a very competitive environment, fuelled by globalisation.
without a regulated environment, clear rules and respect for international obligations in the energy sector, the words about economic growth, increased employment and the competitiveness of the european union have no solid basis on which to rest.
the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy is inextricably linked to energy, including nuclear energy, whether we like it or not.
with these figures, one of the concerns of opponents - and of the public - is surely how to deal with nuclear waste.
the time has come to adapt the existing 1992 directive on the control of shipments of radioactive waste and spent fuel to the development of modern society, as the commission's new proposal does.
with romania's accession to the european union in 2007, the european union will also share a border with moldova, so it is in our vital interest to invest the necessary time, energy and commitment in the further negotiations.
despite an updated safety system and a positive safety assessment by the relevant institutions at european level, bulgaria is still required to close reactors 3 and 4 before the end of 2006. bulgaria exports electricity to all neighbouring countries and many meps have insisted on the enormous social, economic and environmental damage and the problems associated with increased import dependence and reliable energy supply that would result from the closure of both units.
the demand to close kozloduy is ridiculous at a time when we are so focused on competitiveness, security and sustainability of energy supply.
the programme is ambitious in its design and is in line with the short, medium and long-term energy objectives of the european union.
we have placed nuclear energy among the sources that are important for a reliable and sustainable european energy supply.
we emphasised the provision of adequate human resources and adequate and correct information to the public on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
i will speak mainly on the proposal for a common european energy policy.
the energy debate has finally become a priority.
they deserve to be so, for the very quality, availability, price, and environmental impact of energy are what determine the well-being of mankind.
that is why i support the idea of a common european energy policy.
i would also like to see more emphasis on the transport sector in the energy debate.
the unpredictable energy situation and environmental problems force us to assess the comparative strengths and weaknesses of individual energy sources, including their impacts on other sectors such as the wood industry and agriculture.
in this context, we must also make a realistic assessment of nuclear energy, which, with safe technology and a proper safety culture in society, is an important source of energy.
and let's not confuse the peaceful use of nuclear energy with abuses.
it would be foolish to forgo, for example, the use of nuclear energy, the chemical industry, medical research, just because of possible abuses.
finally, we already have a number of well-defined objectives in the field of energy.