it's time we realize that we're facing a climate chaos.
that is why we must reduce emissions quickly.
we have to impose carbon taxes on products from countries that do not comply with kyoto.
countries that don't take responsibility for the climate should not be allowed to parasitize our planet.
the current economic and trade policies are failing and creating climate chaos and destruction instead of happiness and prosperity.
you can't sue against the climate chaos.
we need carbon taxes on imports, air taxes, better regulations on car emissions, better transport policy and better trade policy.
i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive approach to the problem of the environment, and that is why we are voting against the report.
mr president, the recent crisis between russia and ukraine over gas supply has shown that it is more important than ever to have a european energy market that is less dependent on imports.
this will provide not only enormous opportunities for the european energy industry, including renewables, but also a window of opportunity for tackling climate change, boosting growth and creating new jobs.
in order to achieve this we want more transparency, better regulation, a renovated and functioning grid, a european energy strategy, debate on self-sufficiency and solidarity between member states, and rules that enable consumers to decide on their own consumption in a workable way.
the united left group supports all the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment to this regulation on the application of the aarhus convention by the eu.
over the years, the eib has been widely criticised for its approach to environmental issues, for its lack of environmental consideration and for its extreme closeness.
secondly, we want environmental organisations to have a real right to go to court when environmental rules are not being respected.
we are therefore opposed to any restriction of this right, such as that proposed by the rapporteur in amendments nos 28 and 30. in practice, this would mean that many of the most important national environmental movements would be excluded from the possibility of going to court, and that is unacceptable to us.
these were environmental disasters that had enormous consequences for the surrounding environment, and also poisoned the water systems.
in addition to this, we have a constant environmental problem, with waste from existing and old plants leaching heavy metals and other toxic substances into our environment.
this calls for a specific directive to regulate waste from the mining and other extractive industries.
there will be clear rules on permits and how they are to be issued, and it will be possible to see which environmental problems can be addressed.
the time of leaving behind waste and destroyed sites shall end with this directive.
as regards historical waste, member states are required to carry out an inventory, which means that they must look for historical waste which causes environmental problems.
overall, the environmental situation in the union will improve significantly.
but it's important to realize that environmental costs, restoring the environment, are part of the cost of production and they should be.
this directive is in favour of the mining industry which is serious and takes responsibility for its environmental policy.
this directive will also promote the development of new environmental technologies that will enable the recycling of historical waste, and this offers an opportunity for european industry in this field.
last but not least, and most importantly, it will benefit the environment and the health of those living in these areas.
the rules for non-hazardous waste are weaker than they should be.
as regards waste facilities, the definition is too weak and too generous to industry, which risks creating certain loopholes.
as regards historical waste, there are no clear requirements for action against it.
however, it is important to note that other union environmental legislation, in particular the water framework directive, imposes an absolute obligation to address cases where historical waste is seen to lead to a deterioration in the status of water.
you say you're going to create jobs through energy policy.
will you support voluntary or mandatory targets for alternative energy and biomass?
you talk a lot about the environment and consumer power.
this applies to areas such as research, innovation, measures to combat crossborder crime, the structural funds to help smes and environmental measures.
it is a simplification and an improvement in health and the environment.
at the same time, of course, it also means changes in the right direction in terms of health and the environment.
we believe that the aarhus convention is a valuable legal instrument to guarantee public access to environmental information and participation in decision-making processes.
global climate change is a major problem that has good reason to be addressed at international level.
the commission is also proposing that the eu should be able to take on board the new eu-wide framework for the protection of the environment and the environment.
we also believe that the member states should be able to take a national position in the context of negotiations on international climate issues.
we are critical of the proposal to establish a communication strategy at eu level to inform citizens about climate issues.
we are convinced that the member states are capable of taking the necessary measures to ensure that the public has access to appropriate information on climate issues.
this report addresses a number of important issues in the field of sustainable development.
the junilist believes that there are good reasons for eu cooperation on cross-border environmental issues.
examples include: what investments are to be made in public transport and road network expansion in the member states; debt cancellations to developing countries; environmental taxes at eu level; whether the environment should be a subject of primary education in member states' schools; taxation of labour in the member states; employment and social inclusion we are strongly critical of the fact that the eu institutions have a greedy appetite for increased influence.
we have therefore voted against the whole, but we are in favour of individual paragraphs, especially those dealing with genuinely transnational environmental problems.
unfortunately, we know that energy needs, among other things, mean that too many of the individual member states continue to be hypocritical in their treatment of human rights and the violations of the rule of law in our great neighbour.
how can we strengthen cooperation on issues where we must cooperate, such as the fight against terrorism, environmental problems, security and energy?
that is why we believe that the eu is not the solution to creating a small business-friendly environment.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
the committee on the environment welcomes the commission's proposal for common rules for chickens for fattening, in particular because it brings clear improvements in animal welfare, but also because it promotes the functioning of the internal market.
i therefore hope that a majority of this parliament will vote in favour of these amendments tomorrow, which have therefore received a large amount of support in the committee on the environment.
this must be rectified by the proposals of the committee on the environment.
therefore, vote in favour of the proposals of the verts/ale group and those put forward by mr jørgensen and the rest of us in the committee on the environment.
i would like to begin by urging the commission, as in this own-initiative report, to submit a legislative proposal on the share of renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector as soon as possible.
we are happy to complement the two directives on the promotion of renewable energy sources in electricity and transport with the third sector, heating, as the commission's ambition in the white paper 'energy for the future: renewable energy sources'.
a community strategy and action plan' from 1997. almost half of europe's total energy consumption is used for heating.
with today's warning signs of climate change and given our dependence on imports of traditional energy sources with high carbon emissions as a result, it is of the utmost importance that we exploit the enormous potential and existing resources that we have in renewable energy sources in europe.
let me mention a few: we're reducing the carbon footprint.
we are not as easily affected by energy crises elsewhere in the world.
by promoting renewable sources, we are providing incentives for innovation and technological development in this area, which in turn leads to further more efficient and cleaner energy consumption.
by choosing renewable sources in accordance with the conditions of each member state, we contribute to regional development.
i believe that national binding targets for the share of renewable energy are a first step, but it is not enough.
i would also like to ask the commission to create the conditions necessary for companies to have the courage to make long-term investments in technologies that allow greater use of renewable energy sources, and to give the commission the resources necessary for the development and discovery of new technologies for the crucial research.
finally, i would like to draw attention to the technological solutions that already exist and that enable us to make more efficient use of the energy we use to heat homes, namely district heating.
technical solutions and the choice of energy source go hand in hand.
i hope that the commission will follow up this initiative quickly, so that we can quickly have the incentives needed to switch to an increasingly renewable energy source to heat or cool europe.
i know that you all feel passionately about this subject, and this is definitely not the only answer that we should be looking for in the energy sector.
the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy and the debate today have demonstrated very impressive support for the ideas expressed in the report.
in the biomass action plan in december 2005 the commission announced that it would work towards an initiative on heating and cooling from renewable energy sources.
that shows that the commission is very serious about achieving better penetration of renewable energies in a european energy mix.
our amendments on reducing congestion were very reasonable compromises which received almost unanimous support in the committee on the environment; it is tragic that they did not receive support.
as for your views on fossil fuels, i do not think that we should wait until we have used up those fuels; we should start now to look at what can be done on renewable energy.
i am thinking specifically about our recent discussions on bioethanol and the possibility of taking full advantage of agriculture’s contribution to this future way of reducing our carbon dioxide emissions.
the action plan will be based on the overall principles of the european forestry strategy, which are sustainability and subsidiarity.
there is growing concern about the economic viability of sustainable forestry in the european union in the context of globalisation.
competitiveness is a key pillar of sustainable forest management and it is of crucial importance in maintaining the multiple benefits that forestry provides to society, including employment opportunities in rural areas where there is nothing else.
the second issue is that the forestry sector has to respond to social demands concerning the protection of the environment and the natural heritage, in accordance with the gothenburg objectives of sustainable development.
actively contributing to major european objectives, such as biodiversity, conservation or climate change mitigation, will offer new opportunities for forestry.
in relation to a previous discussion, the possibility of biomass for energy is a clear example of how forestry can contribute.
the last issue is the global importance of forestry for sustainable development and the need firmly to continue our support for international commitments for the protection and sustainable management of forestry worldwide.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i would like to stress the incredible importance of forests for our continent and the fact that they affect a great many people.
we have made that clear in the environment committee.
however, we in the committee on the environment feel that there is almost no coordination between the various proposals concerning forests.
it is damaging both to the compatibility of environmental objectives and to the conditions for forestry.
it is perhaps the food that most clearly creates both economic and environmental value.
however, as the commission points out, there are problems with the competitiveness of eu forestry in the global open field, which can cost environmental values.
the message that i and the committee on the environment are sending you today is that by taking account of the forests, the commission should be able to create good, stable conditions for the forestry industry and thus give europe both a better economy and a better environment.
we were given some hearing on this in the committee on the environment when we were discussing this report.
moreover, as climate change increases, these types of disasters are likely to become more common.
the swedish chemicals agency has shown that the environment and health are the main reasons why we have to get rid of this, and there are good alternatives.
the amalgam fillings account for the vast majority of waste water discharges.
junilista supports the proposal to take measures to reduce and eventually phase out mercury emissions.
this is a transnational environmental issue where a common and coordinated approach is warranted.
the aim of this pact is not to create a new process but to strengthen the processes already in place, such as the lisbon process, in order to achieve the goals of sustainable growth, full employment and social justice.
the fisheries agreement in question may also have negative environmental consequences, according to one of parliament's opinions.
instead, we should focus our energy on improving the conditions for more long-term jobs to be created through more enterprises.
we support the involvement of fishermen and their representative organisations in the design of measures to protect the marine environment and to restore fish stocks (amendment no 1).
there is also a climate of fear.
such a climate cannot exist in a democracy, and we must be careful.
we need to review production and distribution and regulate the market in such a way that it works, namely to regulate consumer rights and transmission capacity and to review the dominant position of the large energy companies.
member states choose their own energy mix, which is good.
but mr winkler, you began by saying that at eight o'clock on the 1st of january europe was hit by an energy shock, and we were hit by russia.
they want protectionism in the energy sector which is in direct opposition to what the council has said before, to what the commission wants and to what parliament wants.
it is a shame that we are at a stage where we can help the new member states to achieve a stable energy situation with solidarity and where we can solve major environmental problems.
i am sorry to say that our own swedish prime minister, göran persson, has today said that he wants to re-regulate the swedish energy market.
there are two things that are important to define in the common european task in the field of energy policy, and which i think we must clarify.
if we are to have an opportunity for renewable fuels to grow, we need a larger market where they can also be marketed and developed on a commercial basis.
the second common task in the field of energy policy is, of course, that of foreign and trade policy.
that is why we have a good energy policy, and that is why we have solidarity, and that is why we have a better europe.
we voted against the report that higher taxes to fund social security are a less sustainable solution in the long term.
we do not, however, believe that a switch to energy crops should be allowed to slow down the dismantling of the cap.
it is based on the further extension of the existing common agricultural policy to energy crops.
there is much to add to the debate on energy crops.
it is about energy issues, and i welcome the fact that the commission, as i have understood from the media, will act to enforce a single market and to fight the protectionism we see today in the case of various mergers.
transeuropean energy networks are such an issue and that is why we also voted in favour of the report as a whole when it was discussed earlier in parliament.
it is often easier to measure simple economic factors than environmental factors, for example.
we believe that avril doyle has done her best in a difficult situation and tried to go as far as possible in asserting the right to maintain and introduce better environmental standards, but given the very weak position she gained from the second reading in parliament, it was not possible to reach the only reasonable one, namely to take article 175 on the environment as the only legal basis.
for us, the only acceptable thing is that environmental legislation should be environmental legislation.
the first problem is that we believe that in some parts of it more could have been done; it could be done more quickly to eliminate these very dangerous greenhouse gases.
it is contrary to the spirit of the kyoto protocol and will be a potential obstacle to countries wanting to combat climate change, and as we all know climate change is the most serious environmental threat we face.
we tend to agree in our debates on the seriousness of climate issues, and we tend to agree when we see the scientific reports saying that the situation is more serious than we thought a few years ago.
then comes this statement from the commission showing that they have learned nothing from climate issues.
what you're saying is that the market is still more important than the environment.
the right of companies to sell dangerous gases is more important than the ability of politicians to combat the greenhouse effect and climate change.
the council and the commission have defended old outdated technologies in the internal market instead of defending the climate.
an example: why don't we ban fluorescent greenhouse gases from refrigerators, for consumers?
90 percent of the market is already free of fluorinated greenhouse gases, it's very easy to decide to just ban it.
allowing sulfur hexafluoride, which is twenty-three thousand times more damaging to the climate than carbon dioxide?
now europe's energy supply is in crisis, it is the same thing.
the twenty-five ladies and gentlemen of the european council have no idea what energy technology and policy will look like in ten years' time.
they should therefore not set percentages for biofuels and renewable energy.
the countries themselves should seek solutions and experiment in a free energy market.
the eu's task is to maintain a free energy market and coordinate infrastructure investment.
we should add that the waste problem is not yet solved.
we are producing waste today, and we still do not know how to dispose of it.
nuclear power has also proved to be a very valuable source of energy.
it involves not only high production costs but also very high costs for the disposal of decommissioned reactors and the waste generated.
we are now facing a gigantic energy transition.
it is absolutely necessary to end dependence on oil and fossil fuels, not primarily because of the price of oil but because of the greenhouse effect.
instead, we have a unique opportunity to build sustainable, renewable 'green alternatives'.
it also requires that we dramatically reduce our dependence on energy.
this means that more of the eu's research money should go to renewable energy sources and less to nuclear research.
we have many areas of cooperation, such as politics, economics, social and cultural issues, but also environmental, research and security policy and, not least, conflict resolution.
by doing so, we will achieve a climate of an innovative society in our part of the world.
we have a very large environmental burden.
furthermore, the eu's fishing fleet contributes to overfishing, something that has been pointed out by both the swedish authorities and environmental organisations.
while there are positive aspects to the report, such as the need for the council to be more open, it focuses too much on growth and cost reduction when it should be emphasising sustainable development and cost-effectiveness.
not least because it would certainly draw both attention and energy away from much more complicated issues in the region such as the status of kosovo, the referendum in montenegro and the status of montenegro, and the constitutional changes currently under way in bosnia.
the eu's resources will be put to greater use in areas such as fighting crime, fighting poverty, combating climate change and research, as well as in making the eu the most competitive economy in the world.
the eu's resources will be put to greater use in areas such as fighting crime, fighting poverty, combating climate change and research, as well as in making the eu the most competitive economy in the world.
we are not going to push for it by means of solutions to energy problems in south-eastern europe.
the important tasks at eu level are, for example, to put in order the management of carbon dioxide emission allowances.
the social economy as a model for sustainable development, with its capacity to reconcile the economic and social fabric in the regions by coupling the spirit of entrepreneurship with social purposes, combating passive dependency on social welfare systems, needs to be recognised and taken into account in social and territorial cohesion policies and frameworks at european, national and local level.
in this report the rapporteur deals with natural disasters from an environmental point of view.
we believe that transnational environmental problems should be dealt with at eu level.
in the long run, this leads to more and more serious disasters, which is obviously very bad for the environment and costly for the taxpayers.
the proposals include the creation of a european monitoring centre for drought and desertification, a european fire and forestry fund and a disaster fund under the common agricultural policy, as well as intensive information campaigns on sustainable water consumption.
a well-functioning and sustainable network of contacts is therefore of course also an important and central concern for any presidency.
the meeting is to finalise an offer to iran that will allow iran to use nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes.
at the same time, there must be absolute certainty that nuclear energy will not be used or developed by iran for any other purpose.
these include enhanced cooperation in the promotion of peace, democracy and human rights worldwide, a new dialogue on energy security, the conclusion of an air transport agreement and a focus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries.
the first is energy.
according to current trends, the european union will have to import 70% of its energy in 2030 compared to 50% today.
at next month’s eu-us summit, we intend to establish a strategic cooperation on energy, addressing the security of energy supply – including the diversification of supply routes, the enforcement of market rules, the protection of infrastructure, the promotion of alternative sources of energy, and, finally, energy sufficiency.
the response to the rise of china and india, the pressures of globalisation, the current challenges in the energy field, the way multilateral institutions function, climate change: all these depend on the ability of europe and the united states to cooperate effectively together.
we have now at least established a contact group to address both old and new problems, and have proposed to the us government to include an investment paragraph in the summit declaration regarding the importance of an open transatlantic investment climate.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
firstly, as the commissioner mentioned, in the field of energy we need cooperation on efficiency sufficiency and on sustainability.
but the inflation criterion in the treaty says otherwise: it says that the inflation of the member state concerned must also be sustainable.
but the treaty, in the inflation criterion, in addition to the difference, in addition to the comparison between the inflation of the member state and the reference value, requires us to analyse whether that inflation of the member state in question is sustainable or not.
those who vote against paragraph 4 (€50 million for the purchase of buildings in strasbourg and €25 million for propaganda) do not affect the budget but only try to hide the waste from the electorate.
furthermore, environmental legislation at international level and in many poor countries is characterised by major shortcomings, which is causing waste products, plunder and unsustainable exploitation of various natural resources, such as forests and fisheries, to increase rapidly and to be reinforced by the rapidly growing trade exchange.
if we compare the position of the committee on the environment with the common position of the council, there is a huge difference in quality in terms of environmental content.
the most important is nitrate emissions.
today, nitrate emissions from agriculture are perhaps the most serious source of groundwater pollution.
of course, this means that we have to address what is the main problem, in this case emissions from agriculture.
reduced nitrate emissions from agriculture are good for groundwater, but they also have other positive effects.
nitrate emissions are also a major cause of the over-fertilization of lakes, seas and streams today.
while we get a better situation for groundwater, we can also do something about other major environmental problems.
this is evident, for example, in the case of the baltic sea, where we have a major problem of over-fertilisation due to agricultural emissions.
i would therefore recommend that we vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment and that we carry out a tough conciliation with the council of ministers.
it is a very important decision that parliament will have to take this week to achieve the lisbon objectives and to reconcile welfare and environmental responsibility with global competitiveness.
we have a lot in common with russia: trade, environment, energy.
this is particularly evident now in connection with the blackmail by russia with energy weapons, which is scandalous and shameful.
sustainable development is the ebrd's top priority, but in this case, it has built first and checked second.
the environmental problems were not addressed at all; i have here a long list of environmental problems that have not been addressed.
the report deals with the consequences of the ecj judgment c-176/03 which gave the eu the power to adopt the necessary penal sanctions under the first pillar to ensure the full effect of the provisions of the first pillar, in this case concerning the environment.
i am voting for mr bondes's motion for an alternative resolution because he criticises the ecj for trying to use environmental law as a springboard for the eu to take over large parts of criminal law.
i am not, however, categorically opposed to all forms of criminal law for transnational environmental crimes.
this may sometimes be required to access, for example, ships at sea that are destroying the environment.
so what we are discussing today is the revision of the strategy for sustainable development, a very important document from the european council meeting in gothenburg five years ago.
the truth is that in many areas we have not made any clear progress compared with 2001. biodiversity continues to be depleted, climate emissions are still increasing in most member states, we have social disparities, we have migratory pressure at our borders, we have a number of health problems, such as antibiotic resistance, etc.
a key issue in this context is the relationship between the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy.
we believe that the sustainable development strategy should not be seen primarily as an obstacle or problem to growth and development but rather as an opportunity.
the world is crying out for clever solutions to problems such as energy and transportation.
we are therefore seeing the eu's ecological footprint in the world increase, something that of course must be addressed.
a logical consequence of the international perspective is, of course, that we must also allow the sustainability dimension to influence our development aid much, much more than we have done so far.
how do you intend to strengthen the coordination between the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy, and in particular how do you intend to ensure that the environmental technology industry and innovation in this field are better stimulated?
how does the commission intend to ensure that sustainability aspects are better reflected in the budget than they are today, not least in the aid budget?
finally, we must tackle the problem of the eu's growing ecological footprint.
sustainable development is something that is taken for granted, something that we all strive for.
the resolution, which originated in gothenburg five years ago, emphasises certain components of the implementation of the sustainable development strategy.
innovative environmental solutions may also require investment to become profitable.
when the resolution was permeated by the merger of the sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy, we had difficulty voting for it, but now we think there is an acceptable compromise.
on the contrary, we are very much in favour of sustainable development in business, environmental work and society in general.
however, we cannot accelerate the merger of the lisbon strategy and the sustainability strategy at the moment, as the lisbon strategy is already in place, unlike the sustainability strategy.
instead, you get more stress, more pollution, more inequality and more inequity.
sustainable development is not just about the environment, but the environment and social conditions are intertwined in order for us to have sustainable development.
today everyone is talking about sustainable development, and tomorrow we are voting on the seventh framework programme, which provides 4 billion euros for nuclear research.
the un climate panel has shown that the kyoto targets can only be achieved by ending fossil fuel subsidies.
yes, because the lobbyists of the big corporations are getting their way on short-term growth solutions that are negative for sustainable development.
we need to listen more to our audiences and less to our lobbyists, then we will have sustainable development.
the amendment would read as follows: ‘considers that sustainable development should be seen more as an economic opportunity than as a constraint, and as a spur to technological innovation investment; calls, therefore, upon the commission to ensure effective coordination of the union's growth strategies, integrating information and communications technologies and resource-efficient technologies for sustainable development and “smart growth” both at home and abroad.’ i hope the house can accept this.
in principle, it can be limited to areas such as the free movement of researchers within the eu, research networks and large-scale research in areas such as fusion energy.
this makes sense because the climate change impact of aviation is two to four times greater than the carbon dioxide impact alone.
paradoxically, then, low-income earners would benefit most from higher emissions taxes.
the council was set up by industry lobbyists and fought against the interests of consumers and the environment.
we reject, however, any idea that the eu will in future tax, for example, energy, vat or corporate profits.
these include the environment, research and development and energy, where we can create a healthier environment with more jobs and long-term growth.
however, i do not think that the current contributions from the member states, which are based more on the ability to negotiate rebates than on reflecting the needs of the countries in the eu, should be replaced by a new form of own resources based on energy, vat or corporate profits as proposed by the commission.
we moderates want aviation to be included in the european emissions trading system.
this is an efficient and fair way of internalising the environmental costs of aviation, in accordance with the polluter pays principle.
this distorts competition and weakens sweden's competitiveness, while providing little or no environmental benefits compared to the introduction of aviation emissions trading.
the report's call for a separate emissions trading system means that we moderates cannot support it.
with a separate system, we risk achieving a smaller overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and at a much higher cost than necessary.
we moderates believe that emissions trading should be introduced but in the right way.
we are for cooperation, education and economic growth, but they should be brought about with social and environmental responsibility.
thirdly, to accomplish that, we need strengthened social dialogue addressing issues of change such as the need for companies to facilitate transition for those losing their jobs, and environmental rules for sustainable economic development.
i support the view in the report that future research must give priority to the environment and sustainable development.
this is the case with finnish energy policy, where you can combine increased competitiveness and reduced dependence on the outside world with greater respect for the environment and the kyoto objectives.
the cia's solutions are not sustainable, either in the short or long term, or for the eu and the rest of the world.
for me, it's free trade, a trade without tariffs and quotas in an environment where free enterprise and property rights are respected.
we must learn lessons from this and ensure things are better processed through a much reformed wto and obtain a clear understanding of the role of trade and delivering sustainable development.
it is only strengthened by open markets in a good business climate.
new technology is good for the environment.
it also provides an opportunity for more rapid development in terms of increased environmental considerations in motoring.
a number of years ago, in sweden, we introduced a special incentive for the use of catalysts which was very quickly adopted and led to very rapid reductions in emissions.
it is also important, however, that this focus on the taxation of cars will give the european car industry an opportunity to develop more quickly in terms of environmental considerations.
better cars in europe are good for the environment, but it can also result in a better and stronger car industry.
the junilist supports eu cooperation on cross-border environmental issues.
we would welcome it if the eu member states could agree to cooperate on vehicle taxation, which reduces the climate impact of transport and leads to a better functioning internal market.
we may be able to accept registration taxes in the future if they are designed in a way that leads to clear environmental improvements.
that is why we must create sustainable pension systems.
however, we must also ensure that we create a working environment which allows people to remain in the labour market, which means, among other things, reasonable working hours.
climate change and the receding ice threaten their survival because they need ice cover for their nursing.
china is also a ticking environmental bomb.
it's not environmentally sustainable.
the report is seen as a step towards improving china's ecological and social situation.
the junilista believes that the need for improvement in these areas is a prerequisite for a long and sustainable trade cooperation.
however, in direct contradiction to the report, we believe that it is good that there are different private labels and that all the environmental labelling of fishery products should be done by private operators.
on the contrary, we are convinced that the common fisheries policy is a major cause of overfishing and environmental problems.
air pollution is a major public health problem in the european union.
the commission's own estimates show that up to 370 000 premature deaths per year are caused by emissions into the air.
air pollution also causes major environmental problems in the form of over-fertilization, acidification and ground-level ozone.
health and environmental considerations make it clear that these emissions should be vigorously limited.
it would be a significant gain for society to avoid these costs of emissions.
once again, we have received a sad confirmation that an ambitious environmental policy is not a priority for this european commission.
unfortunately, the draft reports drawn up by the committee on the environment are also inadequate compromises.
we also believe that the same requirements for low levels of pollution should be imposed everywhere regardless of the natural sources of emissions, otherwise different good environments are required for different people depending on where they happen to live.
they cover a wide range of activities, from large network industries energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services to social and health services, water and waste management.
the so-called network services, such as transport, energy, telecommunications and postal services, account for about 7% of our collective gross domestic product, 5% of total employment in the european union.
in times of rapid economic and technological change, services of general interest require a useful and effective legal framework, one that enables service providers to achieve their objectives and to continuously adapt to a changing environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels.
we have launched a wide consultation on the energy sector and we will be putting forward other proposals, including - and i stress this - legislative proposals, not just communications.
the rapporteur's report deals with the commission's thematic strategy on air pollution.
the junilists believe that transnational environmental problems are a matter to be dealt with at community level.
air pollution is one example of such a problem.
but the positive aspects such as congestion charges, reduced car traffic and local sustainability plans are being considered and the bourgeois government may certainly need a push from the eu on these issues.
this gender power structure is present in every aspect of our society and it hampers growth and every kind of sustainability.
this clearly shows that the eu does not put the environment first, but rather looks to the interests of industry.
the rapporteur, miloslav ransdorf, for example, wants parliament to state that nanotechnology should be geared towards the development of hydrogen energy.
the eu's role in this context will be limited to establishing a patent monitoring system in the field, establishing ethical and environmental standards and possibly securing funding for very large-scale projects of the same type as fusion research.
we greens want knowledge first, then regulations to protect the environment and health and then marketing.
carbon powder is harmless, but nanoparticles in the form of carbon clusters cause serious brain damage in fish within 48 hours even at concentrations of 0.5 ppm.
sustainable fishing is a prerequisite for the survival of the fishing industry.
experience shows that the eu does not give priority to sustainable fishing.
the lahti summit next week will deal with the question of a common energy policy.
in fact, there is very little reason to pursue an energy policy at eu level.
we are at a historic juncture where it is becoming increasingly clear that the emissions of greenhouse gases from the human combustion of coal and hydrocarbons are causing climate change.
however, no one in the eu leadership can decide which energy type we should choose to meet the needs of a sustainable energy supply in the future.
some countries have a vested interest in finding ways to capture and store carbon dioxide from burning coal and oil.
some countries are prepared to become dependent on russian natural gas, while others want to invest in nuclear power, hydropower, wind and wave energy, biomass, geothermal energy.
everyone can reduce their energy consumption in different ways.
the idea that the eu should determine how much of which energy types are to be used is a foolish idea that is dangerous for europe's future.
not standing up for democracy will not make russia a better partner in energy policy or in any other area.
russia will be a credible energy partner only when democracy is stronger and when the rule of law is stabilised.
mr barroso, some of the competences we have in the european union – the internal market for energy policy, the trans-european networks, competition rules and trade policy – are the instruments that we must use with relation not only to russia but also to other parts of the world.
they are the best basis for the future energy policy of the european union.
(the president cut the speaker off)
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
i'm speaking on behalf of the environmental committee.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has two legislative proposals: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
these are those relating to the provision of measures on prevention, public health and intentional marine pollution.
now, as regards intentional, deliberate marine pollution, the commission fully supports the proposal that the civil protection mechanism should be able to intervene in cases of widespread marine pollution caused either by accident or by intentional causes.
however, the term 'intentional, deliberate' marine pollution usually refers to small illegal discharges of oil from ships and the commission wishes to avoid interpreting the scope of the regulation to cover such small-scale discharges.
they're extremely stable, and the bond between fluorine and carbon is the strongest of all in organic chemistry.
we can try to stop this pollution by the amendment now in the pfoa compromise, where the commission is to review and constantly monitor the development of alternatives.
we have to address this, because the next big environmental problem could be fluoroorganic chemistry and its variants.
this is a first step towards protecting people and the environment from some of these substances.
i think we should bear this in mind when we take another extremely important decision later this autumn - for both the environment and our health - namely the reach chemicals act.
it is bioaccumulative, which means it is stored for a long time in the environment and in our bodies.
i am therefore pleased that carl schlyter and a largely unanimous environment committee have tightened up the threshold for the amount of pfos that can be used on the market.
it is good that parliament is restricting substances that are harmful to health and the environment.
mr president, i welcome the european union’s united negotiations and discussions with russia on human rights, the rule of law, the murder of anna politkovskaya and other journalists in russia and, of course, on energy.
the current energy negotiations with russia have to be based on reciprocity, the rule of law and transparency.
however, what is happening now in russia in the field of energy is the very opposite of this and we need to take note of it.
this also proves the absolute necessity of a common european energy policy, not only on security of supply but also for fighting global warming.
very soon we will be negotiating the emissions-trading system with russia, which has signed and ratified the kyoto protocol.
we have had a ban on the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries since 1997. it is time to make sure that it is properly implemented.
we need to ensure that every time someone undertakes to transport hazardous waste, there is a person with personal responsibility who signs a liability policy.
we must now stop this latest form of neo-colonialism where we dump our waste in poorer countries if we are to call ourselves civilized.
we want the budget to contribute to sustainable social, economic and environmental development for the eu in line with the lisbon strategy.
this support also results in inefficient agriculture that harms the environment and, by dumping surpluses, contributes to widening the gap between the world's poor and rich.
climate change, waste, unsustainable fishing, noise, over-fertilisation and the extraction of raw materials are all threats to our oceans.
the marine strategy can be a small step in trying to tackle the problems, if it is as ambitious as the committee on the environment proposes.
there is overwhelming statistical evidence that marine reserves provide protection that both increases fisheries and biodiversity in the surrounding areas.
my amendments 81 and 82 aim to regulate emissions from waste storage in a serious way.
i therefore hope that tomorrow parliament will not listen to the previous speakers but will give broad support to the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment.
firstly, a much faster process, which means that measures are introduced earlier and a much more ambitious timetable for achieving the objective of good environmental status in our seas than the commission has proposed.
the ability of our oceans to survive the pressures on the marine environment is a responsibility for all of us.
a gas pipeline in the sensitive baltic sea poses a major environmental threat.
the pipeline poses a threat to the environment and fisheries, both at the time of construction and during its lifetime.
europe certainly needs energy, but this natural gas pipeline will not be laid on the bottom of the baltic sea.
if the gas pipeline is to be built, it should be on land for the sake of the marine environment and the baltic sea!
in the implementation timetable (amendments 20, 24, 31, 32, 34, 35 and 69), the commission proposed 2021 as the deadline for member states to achieve 'good environmental status' of the marine environment.
the environment committee has suggested an earlier date.
while the commission would undoubtedly like to see 'good environmental status' achieved quickly, i do not think it is realistic to postpone the implementation deadline.
the commission's proposal balances the need to improve our understanding of the marine environment and the threats it faces, firstly, with the need to act, secondly.
to find the most appropriate measures to protect the marine environment with the least cost and the greatest efficiency, we must arm ourselves with the necessary knowledge and skills.
the water framework directive, successfully adopted in 2000 with ms lienemann as rapporteur, requires 'good environmental status' by 2015, 15 years after the adoption of the directive.
the commission also considers that it is not practical to require member states to 'achieve good environmental status by 2021' as proposed by the environment committee, in accordance with the directive's objective.
however, there should be an overall positive trend towards good environmental status, which is why the commission proposed the concept of 'achieving good environmental status'.
however, we cannot accept the environment committee's proposal to introduce an obligation to create marine protected areas as part of the implementation of the proposed directive.
marine protected areas should only be established if they can directly contribute to the achievement of 'good environmental status'.
as regards the key theme of the characteristics of 'good environmental status' (amendment 80), the commission agrees with the committee's wish to incorporate the characteristics directly into the directive.
however, the commission has some problems with the list of characteristics as proposed by the environment committee.
many of the characteristics are based on specific impacts on the marine environment and threats, rather than on the quality of the ecosystem.
more importantly, if we were to look only at impacts, the eu would not be able to move from the current fragmented approach to marine environmental management to a more holistic approach that takes into account all impacts and their interactions on the marine environment.
ladies and gentlemen, the debate has touched on the complexity of the whole problem, including the fact that the marine environment is being polluted by the atmosphere, as well as the fact that the quality of the marine environment is highly dependent on climate change management.
as regards the arctic ocean, the geographical situation does not allow for a significant change in the european commission's position and for the development of a separate strategy for this particularly sensitive and important environment, which is not directly linked to the territory of the european union.
the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment are largely positive and will hopefully improve the state of the marine environment, not least by defining good environmental status.
article 13 on specific areas allows for partial disregard of environmental objectives where the changes in an area are the result of measures taken in the public interest.
it is therefore of the utmost importance that the commission is very restrictive if and when this happens, because our future environment for all is also of great public interest.
worse still, mercury that leaks, ends up in incinerators or is otherwise dispersed and transformed in the environment into readily absorbable forms that are even more harmful to humans and animals.
we cannot continue to manufacture barometers which are harmful to the environment for nostalgic reasons.
in this commentary on the marine environment strategy, the rapporteur raises several interesting and important issues.
the commission also stresses that the common fisheries policy must meet the requirements of sustainable development, while allowing member states to decide on emergency measures to protect a particular stock.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
i shall focus on three items in the commission's work programme, namely global competitiveness, green growth and energy.
secondly, the environment and growth.
all too often, when such documents are presented, one gets the feeling that the environment and growth are somehow at odds.
in the coming decades, the world will be forced to do something about climate change.
it is about new technologies for saving energy, new technologies for powering cars and so on.
there will be a gigantic market for environmentally friendly technology and for energy-efficient products.
thirdly, energy.
europe's competitiveness depends on a secure and economically viable energy supply.
it is easier to fight for its principles than to live up to them, but i hope the commission will do well in the areas of global competitiveness, green growth and secure and sustainable energy supply.
we support the via baltica motorway project, provided that a sound environmental assessment is carried out.
the report contains many positive elements, including that due attention should be paid to the environmental problems in the area.
we also take a very positive view of paragraph 13, which states that member states should be allowed to introduce stricter environmental rules than those proposed by the eu.
paragraph 13, which gives member states the right to have stricter legislation to protect the baltic sea, and paragraph 11, which requires environmental impact assessments for all energy projects, are crucial to saving the baltic sea.
agricultural policies, on the other hand, waste resources, suck out europe's consumers and worsen world poverty.
the original purpose of the reach was to protect people and the environment.
despite the fact that the environmental committee called for major improvements to reach, the last trilateral meeting was all about deterioration.
let us see this apple core as a symbol of a reach that grows and takes root, a reach from which we can reap public health and environmental benefits for decades to come, instead of selling fall fruit to the people of europe.
firstly, the proposal must be strengthened in relation to environmental components, in particular in relation to substitution.
the starting point of having a strong policy that combines market considerations with environmental considerations is, i believe, a very important success factor.
firstly, i think we could have used the opportunity to provide consumers with clearer information to meet increasing environmental and consumer demands.
we also need a strong reach for all of us consumers and for the environment, which has already been addressed in several very good speeches here earlier.
this proposal fails workers, consumers and the environment.
in particular, what had been a win for public health and the environment is now empty, namely the substitution principle.
there is still a chance to save reach, and i urge you - especially you socialists who say you are protecting workers and the environment - to throw this ppe-de agreement in the trash and vote to save reach.
i am convinced that all my colleagues on the committee on development want to see poverty in the world reduced so that vulnerable people around the world can live a sustainable life.
we should remember that climate change may also destroy groundwater even more in the future.
first, the groundwater directive, but we have to solve the climate problem if we are to have any chance of protecting groundwater in the future.
we need a reformed agricultural policy for the new jobs of the future and a sustainable europe.
i cannot support the weakening of parliament's position, which the environment committee adopted in october, as the council has forced it to do.
- the right to information is weakened by the fact that fewer chemicals are covered by the information requirement, which will apply in higher concentrations than the ep environment committee would have wished.
these include the internal market and a number of environmental issues.
the compromise may be a victory for the old-fashioned part of the chemical industry, but it is a loss for modern and progressive companies, for public health and for our common environment.
we would have liked a tighter timetable for the introduction of euro 5 and lower limits for nitrogen dioxide emissions in euro 6. however, we voted in favour of the compromise with the council of ministers because we believe that it is a good compromise and that an extension of the process would not lead to better rules but only to a postponement of the timetable for implementation.
we need russia for energy security but we also need to apply stringent rules and a firm policy regarding democracy and respect for fundamental human rights.
secondly, emissions in china and india are expanding very rapidly.
we must be more ambitious than that, otherwise emissions from these countries will overwhelm us in the future.
a prosperous, competitive and sustainable future for europe will require a major shift in energy policy.
today we have problems with production, distribution, consumers’ rights as well as global warming, stability and security.
the challenge and urgent development of a new european energy policy is an opportunity for european citizens, european industry and the environment.
therefore i welcome an ambitious energy agenda from the commission next year.
i therefore ask my colleagues to support the outcome of the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy, where we succeeded in combining an enforced market solution, enhancing market entry for new players, more transparency and consumers’ rights to information, with a clear political signal on long-term international and binding targets on renewable energy and co2 reduction.
moreover, i should like to emphasise the importance of including the distributor and consumer aspects to the current production concentration and to stress that existing technologies such as combined heat and power, trigeneration and district heating must be used to a much larger extent, reducing and making more efficient the energy we use.
energy policy should not be considered as an isolated issue.
it is vital to develop fp7 as well as the reform of the cap in line with the needs of an increased indigenous european energy production.
the eu has the possibility to seize the opportunity to greatly improve the energy market, solve environmental problems and create new jobs.
seppänen is on the right track and should have our support, but morgan, who threatens to bureaucratize energy policy to such a degree that it will require a million people to implement it in the short term, is on the wrong track.
adaptation to rising energy prices is best done at national level.
it is in the competition between countries and companies to find effective solutions to energy problems that creativity can flourish, not by bureaucratising the lives of half a billion people living in economies with very different conditions.
secondly, we believe this budget makes the wrong political choices, such as too large a focus on industrial agriculture and foreign policy and military projects, and not enough on environment and social projects.
eu cooperation will be limited to the achievement of a functioning internal market and to dealing with transnational environmental issues.
however, that also to some extent highlights the challenges we are facing when we discuss environment policy and greenhouse effects or the need for more competitiveness or the need to face globalisation or the need to do something about the developments in iran.