(applause from the centre) and that is why we will fight together with all our forces - including the trade unions - to ensure that new jobs are created, but at the same time that the environment is protected and that it is sustainable development.
if you have also spoken about energy efficiency, for example, that is also a subject which is very close to our hearts.
we have to become more energy efficient, we can become more energy efficient.
we have many different ideas of this europe: a social europe, a fair europe, an ecological europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in europe, we now have a consensus in most countries that climate change is very good for the economy and we need to remain competitive, but also remain competitive by investing in climate-relevant technologies.
and please also consider what we can do in the area of ground-level ozone, soot particles, so that we can have an overall strategy.
the world climate summit ended with a compromise once again.
but we must ask ourselves how long our planet will tolerate such a lazy compromise in the face of a continuing rapid growth in population and increasing environmental pressures.
i welcome the decision to negotiate a global climate treaty in three years' time, aimed at reducing harmful greenhouse gases, and which will then include for the first time major emerging countries such as china, india, brazil and south africa.
the green climate fund, with a budget of 100 billion dollars by 2020, is also worth mentioning.
but leading scientists are predicting global warming of at least 3.5 degrees with the known effects.
i rate durban as a reminder to us that we must meet our 2020 target of reducing greenhouse gases.
in the end, the longest climate conference ever produced mainly one thing: hot air.
the eu and other kyoto countries have committed to new climate targets for 2013, but these countries account for just 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
as long as imported kiwis are so cheap that native fruit rots in the ground, as long as animals are transported across europe, we will continue to have unnecessary environmental problems.
in the long term, our only chance is to provide these necessary resources for industry and to maintain the environment in the condition we need.
i think that is why we have done our job of ensuring a high level of environmental and consumer protection, while at the same time recognizing the specificities of the member states.
for example, energy costs in agriculture increased by around 60% between 2000 and 2010, while producer prices increased by only 25%.
in the medium and long term, however, it will be necessary, especially for farmers who work according to ecological and biological principles, to create a better price climate for their products in order to ensure their long-term survival, especially in the peripheral alpine regions.
one of the biggest cost drivers is energy costs.
in order not only to control costs but also to reduce dependence, an energy action plan calling for action by all policy areas is urgently needed.
renewable energy sources such as wind, water and renewable raw materials from biomass have great potential.
this renewable energy mix can help to close the supply gap in a sustainable way.
improved management of resources of humus and water, energy and nutrients must not continue to be a hollow slogan.
the economic and environmental challenges and the extreme cost pressures in agriculture can only be met by long-term investment in raw material supply, farm development, research and innovation.
we're discussing the fact that we're not meeting the biodiversity targets.
we're discussing the fact that we're in an energy crisis.
but what we want on the other hand is not concentration in agriculture, but here we also want biodiversity in the forms of farming.
i would like to congratulate mr steve tolan, as chairman of the european parliament's stoa committee, he is the programme director of the chipembele wildlife education trust in zambia on receiving the sustainable energy prize from the european parliament's stoa committee.
− harmonised rules on motor vehicle regulations can be beneficial for road safety, environmental protection and trade.
− harmonised vehicle regulations can be beneficial for road safety, environmental protection and trade.
− the icao has an important role in the coordination of air traffic, thus serving aviation and passenger security, air traffic management, environmental protection and efficiency to the benefit of air passengers and airlines.
- the illegal trade in electronic waste is booming.
in germany alone, around 700 000 tonnes of e-waste were generated in 2010.
either waste pickers, who have already been paid by the equipment manufacturers for recycling, are handing the scrap to retailers, or citizens are being stopped at the gates of the municipal recycling yards and the equipment is bought off for a few euros.
the new e-waste directive is intended to provide the authorities with a legally binding basis for defining clearly what constitutes waste and what constitutes a second-hand product.
in addition, proper recycling reduces the poisoning of people and the environment by e-waste.
if dealers are not allowed to take back used equipment, it is feared that a lot of electrical waste will be dumped illegally.
biocidal products will be subject to a national authorisation/registration procedure in each eu member state from 2009 onwards, based on an official evaluation of their efficacy and their risks to humans, animals and the environment.
it is the most efficient solution to improve the availability of these products, to stimulate innovation and to ensure effective protection of human health and the environment.
the aim is to reduce farmers' costs of energy, feed, fertilisers and seeds, to use production resources efficiently and sustainably and to reduce farmers' dependence on large corporations.
investments in this area pay off in the long run, as environmental damage is usually associated with high costs.
while in the high-tech countries waste is generated in processing and consumption, it is time for developing countries to work on efficient transport and safe storage of agricultural products.
the waste in the production chain may be contained by law in our latitudes, but the throwaway mentality of our modern society certainly cannot.
- since 1974, global food waste has increased by 50%.
not only does this contrast starkly with world hunger, but it also causes high and unnecessary environmental costs through the production, processing and disposal of food that is thrown away.
in the medium term, the laughing third will be china, which will be able to cover its energy deficit with the help of the european quota which is being released.
given the mutual interests in the energy sector, the eu must ensure that major groups such as gazprom also comply with the competition rules in the energy market.
two billion tonnes of waste, including 40 million tonnes of special waste, are generated in the eu every year.
this makes the role of india and china as waste producers relative in terms of population.
although north america, western europe, japan, and korea are known to be leaders in recycling, they still collect more waste than any other region of the earth.
in the united states, electronics manufacturers save on disposal costs by shipping their electronic waste to africa or other areas of the third world as so-called development aid.
not to mention the countless tons of german pet bottles that are processed in china without costly environmental and worker protection regulations into stuffing for stuffed animals or even later end up in western clothing.
downcycling is as much a problem as waste shipments across europe and the black sheep who illegally dump waste.
increasing recycling rates, therefore, may be helpful in combination with strong controls on exports of electronic waste and cost-sharing with polluters.
much more important, however, are measures to prevent waste.
in this context, the eu has not exactly made a name for itself with the regulation of toxic energy-saving lamps.
we must also not forget that the disposal of nuclear waste is still not resolved.
i would like to ask my colleague mr boulland how he thinks we can go from this waste chain - which is in fact a chain of raw materials and added value - to a so-called value chain in the future, with increased waste separation.
first, on the issue of employee participation: employee participation contributes to the sustainable success of companies.
in the future, it is certainly important to continue to focus on sustainability and prevention.
the aid measures we are introducing should be sustainable, and we should make sure that the aid measures actually give the population a return on investment.
that is why the new development strategy is also to look at how we can provide energy in the poorest of the poor, because the supply of energy ultimately includes the necessary training for the population, because communication is also the basis for a successful strategy, and we must therefore look at how we can make the resources of this world sustainable.
this is particularly important in the context of transnational challenges such as climate change, terrorism, resource scarcity and ensuring international stability.
humanitarian aid needs to be made more sustainable by focusing more on disaster prevention.
in the medium term, china will take the opportunity to meet its growing energy needs through the capacity that has become available.
- two billion tonnes of waste, including 40 million tonnes of special waste, are generated in the eu every year.
increasing recycling rates may be helpful in combination with strong controls on exports of electronic waste and polluter-friendly cost recovery.
however, this raises the risk that companies will save themselves increasing disposal costs and try to ship electronic waste to africa as 'development aid'.
much more important are measures to prevent waste, and in this context the eu has not exactly made a name for itself with the regulation of toxic energy-saving light bulbs.
- the eu generates a total of 2 billion tonnes of waste per year, of which 40 million tonnes are special waste, which is a very worrying amount, especially in terms of the number of inhabitants.
or we could simply ship our e-waste like the us does to the third world as "development aid".
it is of key importance to tackle downcycling, the waste that is being transported or illegally dumped across europe.
increasing recycling rates, therefore, may be helpful in combination with strong controls on exports of electronic waste and cost-sharing with polluters.
the report also stresses the need to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only a matter of environmental protection but also of the protection of the environment.
the energy-saving lamp regulation is having the opposite effect!
in addition, nuclear power plants are not to be underestimated as producers of toxic waste, the final disposal of which remains unclear.
− the poor waste management in many member states is damaging the health of citizens and has a high environmental cost in the long term.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the waste management of waste.
− in principle, there is a link between poverty and access to modern energy services.
however, it would be unrealistic to assume that access to energy can effectively combat poverty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
however, improved energy supply can lead to economic growth and thus reduce poverty through job creation.
after the current course of action and almost three decades of reforms in the energy sector, 67 per cent of the population will still be without electricity in 2015. to date, only a few developing countries have made progress in this respect.
since providing electricity to the poor is not a profitable business, private investors have only improved the energy supply of the productive and industrial sectors.
− access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for reducing global poverty and ensuring sustainable human development.
energy services affect all aspects of life from not having access to energy usually means living in poverty with no prospects.
the importance of access to energy therefore needs to be given greater international attention.
efficient energy facilities enable the production and operation of drinking water pumps at low cost.
modern cookstoves reduce health-damaging smoke emissions, reduce emissions to the environment and allow the boiling of contaminated drinking water.
this means that it leads to long transport distances, costs and also to environmental damage.
member states must be encouraged to put at risk areas of no future, such as education, innovation and sustainable energy projects, when implementing their austerity packages.
what is needed is investment in sustainable self-help measures, such as education, research, innovation and support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
unfortunately, the new commission proposals do not address the issues of natural, organic milk production, animal welfare and sustainable landscaping in the sense of a regional supply of milk farmers throughout the eu, which is why i voted against the report.
− the current financial and sovereign debt crisis can only be countered by reforming the general economic environment and by medium- and long-term growth-enhancing measures.
one sentence of that declaration reads: ‘we firmly believe that employment must be at the heart of the actions and policies to restore growth and confidence that we undertake under the framework for strong, sustainable and balanced growth’.
first, the protection of the environment.
we need an efficient environmental policy in all eu institutions and bodies.
you know, we're in a very competitive environment with the united states, competing for the best minds, of course, with canada or australia.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission by mr norbert glante, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the future of the monitoring and environmental safety system (gmes) (o-000325/2011) (b7-0027/2012) (2012/2509 (((rsp)).
however, while savings are necessary, there are also areas where caution is required: firstly, environmental protection, because we need an efficient environmental policy in all eu institutions and bodies.
− the resolution underlines that the plan’s objective is to maintain the biomass of western horse mackerel at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation; urges the commission to take more initiatives to foster a political dialogue between the three institutions aimed at clarifying their respective roles in the decision making process and at addressing the issue of the future architecture of the multi-annual financial framework; and urges the council to submit its position on the proposed multi-annual plan.
− the resolution emphasises that the fisheries sector is an important eu industry which provides economic and social value for the european union and considers that environmental, economic and social sustainability are important objectives of the cfp.
− global environment and security monitoring is an initiative jointly launched by the european commission (eu) and the european space agency (esa) in 1998. it is now of vital importance for earth observation.
the data provided provide information on pollution, climate change and are subsequently used for disaster prevention and security.
further steps must follow the mandatory quota to promote women in the entire business environment.
the citizens must be able to rely on the law applicable to their case, especially in the light of the changed environment for families in europe.
about 10% of genetic waste in the eu is foreign-related to another member state.
the last council meeting again saw decisive progress in bringing europe further on the path towards more growth and sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products.
citizens need to be able to rely on the law that applies to their case, especially in the light of the changed environment for families in europe.
the first is to review the basel guidelines and to ensure that smes have sustainable access to eu funding.
there is no doubt that the re-issue of the international cocoa agreement represents a sustainable and important step towards good cooperation between cocoa-producing and cocoa-consuming countries.
the creation of planning security for cocoa farmers and their families, the establishment of food security, general development cooperation and the fight against exploitative child labour are important elements for sustainable development in the cocoa sector.
instead, we should focus on certified, sustainable cocoa farming.
we are making great progress and have a common future, particularly in the energy sector.
the geothermal energy, which i believe is the best in the world, is an excellent export product and will bring a lot of money to iceland.
the objectives of the eff include the promotion of sustainable development in the fisheries sector, the strengthening of the competitiveness of the business structures and the development of economically viable enterprises in the fisheries sector.
the aim is to improve environmental protection.
− the general guidelines for the 2013 budget stress the importance of measures to strengthen solidarity and to boost sustainable growth and employment.
the eu must therefore ensure that raw materials are produced in a sustainable way and are free from exploitative child labour.
transparency and sustainability must therefore be further promoted in this sector of the economy.
the 2010 convention aims to create the conditions for a fairer and more sustainable global cocoa trade.
i believe that real progress by the government and the implementation of eu reforms can help create a political environment that is conducive to resolving bilateral issues in particular.
i believe that we have a very ambitious climate policy here in europe.
otherwise, i am worried that the big emitters will leave, jobs will be lost and the climate will be damaged.
i thank mathias groote for pointing out that it's not just about quality of life, that it's not just about a healthy environment, clean water and clean soil for the future, but that it's also about thinking really economically.
because what we risk today with a carbon-laden environment is extreme costs for the future, not just for health care, but for the entire economy.
we talk about a low-carbon future, and today we are getting proposals that would do just the opposite.
i think it is much more sensible to maintain preventive, ecologically sustainable farming than to resort, as we must now, to emergency measures to compensate and ultimately to vaccinate.
- it is with a heavy heart that i have decided to vote against this report, which contains a number of positive and necessary approaches to tackling climate change at european level by pooling action without jeopardising the competitiveness of european businesses.
but despite the eu's repeated commitments to phase out nuclear energy, this report contains some indirect and/or explicit statements that see nuclear power as the solution to carbon-free or low-carbon energy production.
− i have decided to vote against this report, which contains a number of positive and necessary approaches to tackling climate change at european level by combining measures without jeopardising the competitiveness of european businesses.
but despite the eu's repeated commitments to phase out nuclear power, there are some indirect and/or explicit statements in this report that see nuclear power as the solution to a carbon-free/low-energy production.
- emission trading is a dubious instrument of environmental policy aimed at reducing emissions.
in the european union, the eu emissions trading system for carbon dioxide emissions was introduced by law in 2005. emissions trading links greenhouse gas emissions to the possession of allowances: each greenhouse gas emitter is only allowed to release the amount of pollutants for which it holds emission allowances.
on the other hand, those responsible for releasing too many greenhouse gases can buy emission rights.
all this opens the door to speculation and misses the real purpose of the regulation, which is to reduce co2 emissions.
the high level of emission trading is therefore not conducive to investment in the creation of a low-carbon economy.
− as a matter of principle, emissions trading starts with a cap on greenhouse gases.
those countries whose emissions are below the ceiling can buy excess allowances.
on the other hand, countries that emit greenhouse gases beyond the cap can buy these emission allowances.
in addition, some of the alleged environmental projects in emerging countries are supported, the climate impact of these projects is systematically overestimated, and many of them are even counterproductive.
in conclusion, i do not think that the high level of emissions trading is supporting investment in low-carbon technologies.
but this would be urgently needed to reduce the greenhouse effect.
− i have decided to vote against this report, which contains a number of positive and necessary approaches to tackling climate change at european level by combining measures without jeopardising the competitiveness of european businesses.
but despite the eu's repeated commitments to phase out nuclear energy, this report contains some indirect and explicit statements that nuclear power is the solution to carbon-free and low-carbon energy production.
- i have decided to vote against this report because it contains some indirect and explicit statements which see nuclear power as the solution to a co2-free/low energy production.
the eu should commit itself to phasing out nuclear energy and reducing greenhouse gases by promoting renewable energy sources.
the european union has been a major player in the development of climate policy, and the fundamentalists of the market have been far too dominant.
for too long, much needed energy development has been prevented and neglected.
renewable energy should be at the heart of european climate policy.
− water-saving technologies and increasing environmental awareness have led to a massive reduction in drinking water use.
many of the amendments that we tabled have been accepted, or have been voted in the committee on foreign affairs: on environment, on large-scale dams.
sustainable aid can only be provided on the ground.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
that's why we need fair and sustainable corporate governance rules.
the involvement of not only the shareholders but also other stakeholders is important for the sustainable success of the company.
sustainable aid can only be provided on the ground.
it also gives advice on fields on which it should focus in the future, such as promoting sustainable, renewable projects, and regarding promotion of the union’s objectives and the europe 2020 strategy’s targets, and outside the eu, with regard to its mandate and the overall policy coherence of the eu’s external action.
i think it would be in the interests of mrs lulling and of our common environmental awareness and our common environmental orientation to postpone this report and to reconsider how to clarify the matter of diesel in particular, so i am putting this motion here.
the european union has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been active in the field of the environment since the beginning of the year.
the black sea region will undoubtedly become more important in the coming years, not least because of the energy question.
the union should adopt a prudent and sustainable approach in order to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are taken into account in the best possible way.
the countries of the black sea region are becoming increasingly important because of their geographical proximity, the dynamic development of their sales and labour potential and their energy resources.
the european council in strasbourg has decided to set up a european energy policy.
it is therefore not just about the economy and energy, but also about security and stability.
we cannot sacrifice morality for the sake of energy security.
sustainable growth is only possible through sound employment policies.
we can achieve these goals by 'clean' fiscal consolidation on the one hand and sustainable growth on the other.
its main purposes are to meet the eu’s priority goals of combating climate change, improving energy efficiency, stimulating renewable energy sources and ensuring fair competition within the internal market.
to achieve this, the proposal bases taxation on objective criteria – co2 emissions and energy content.
first, taxation of energy products will be more coherent.
second, consumers will receive a consistent price signal to reduce emissions and to save energy.
fourth, use of sustainable biofuels and products from biomass will be promoted, since they will be exempt from co2 taxation.
turning to the amendments, the commission welcomes the support for the main features of its proposal, in particular the introduction of a co2- and energy-related element, a gradual increase of minimum rates by 2018 and the principle of equal taxation of all fuels put to the same use.
as for energy consumption by households, the commission is not now in favour of agreeing on an end date for phasing out optional tax exemptions or reductions.
it also feels that it would be premature to remove the exemption for commercial aircraft and shipping fuel now, taking into account the fact that the aviation sector is covered by the eu ets and that developments on tackling emissions in the maritime sector could take place in the near future.
both these issues will in any case be reviewed in the regular commission report on the application of the new framework for energy taxation.
as rapporteur, i worked on the opinion on the taxation of energy sources in the committee on budgets.
i would remind you that, in addition to many important points for discussion, the committee on budgets unanimously adopted the opinion after intensive intergroup discussion, the core message of which is that the proceeds of a possible future taxation of energy sources could also be used as shares to form the basis of a future system of own resources for the eu budget.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of the internal market.
because if we actually look at the co2 emissions per unit of energy produced, nuclear power plants are by no means as carbon-friendly as this lobby very specifically portrays it.
comparison figures from the upstream and downstream processes of uranium recovery, fuel reprocessing, show that nuclear power plants using uranium from russia produce about 65 grams per kilowatt hour of carbon dioxide, far behind the renewable energies that we all now so much promote, whether that's hydroelectricity or wind farms.
i have tabled an amendment in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy to the effect that emissions from the extraction of fuels used in power stations for energy production, and for the reprocessing of which they are produced, must also be taken into account.
and with this lulling report, from a person who is very clear about the very wide use of nuclear energy, we are steering back to a glorious past instead of a sensible future.
we can discuss it, but they must also be revenue-neutral, also on environmental taxes.
and the overall approach means that we do not take the energy content and co2 emissions of fuels in isolation, but we have to look at the overall situation of taxation - for example, of cars - in the member states.
a non-european energy minister from a producing country once proposed that we should give europe all its energy if we were willing to share the taxes with him.
this is a very important point to make here, and it is important to note that we must also remain competitive in the energy sector.
that is why i cannot understand what measures of relief commissioner šemeta has in mind in this proposal, because it is of course a question of relieving the burden on labour and output, if one wants to tax consumption and energy-related things more.
thank you to all the shadow rapporteurs and staff who contributed to the success of this report and thus wrote an important chapter on sustainability, environmental protection and participation of all affected populations in these regions plagued by civil wars.
− the ep welcomes the conclusion of this agreement because it seeks to: fight against illegal logging and forest degradation; eliminate inadequate law enforcement and monitoring; establish systems for verification of legal compliance; improve forest governance and sustainable use of its timber; and provide a home to many indigenous communities who depend on the use of forest resources.
− this agreement has been set up in order to boost the legal and fair trade in harvested timber on to the eu market and improve legal and sustainable forest governance in partner countries.
− the energy taxation directive adopted in 2003 is in urgent need of revision in view of new challenges.
firstly, it taxes energy products according to their emissions.
this takes into account the promotion of renewable energy.
secondly, energy efficiency is taken into account.
− in my view, as a member of the committee on budgets, a tax on energy products could be part of the eu's future own resources and would thus relieve national budgets.
i am simply saying to the consumer that he can make a conscious decision whether he wants a product from his region, either because he knows the production conditions or because he is in favour of products from his region ending up on his table for reasons of nature and the environment.
i see a very great opportunity for the consumer to make conscious choices about the environment, to make conscious choices about jobs in the region, to make conscious choices about certain production methods, and i see absolutely no danger to the internal market because i see a great opportunity to make a very conscious choice about irish butter or irish milk if i want to.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his commitment to the issue of biodiversity.
the issues of ecological services and biodiversity are still treated a little bit like an orchid, which we will deal with when we have time, and not just talk about the monetary and financial orientation of europe.
because if we have an eco-service system that can really work, then we also produce better, we have better food, and we save a lot of investment that actually goes against biodiversity.
we are now faced with the great challenge of implementing biodiversity in europe as something really lived and implementing it in the member states, with the orientation of the new common agricultural policy.
i would ask you, commissioner, and my colleagues in the council, to ensure that biodiversity is not discussed only afterwards, because then it will be too late.
eur 1 300 million is to be made available to finance the additional costs of the iter project for the period 2012-13. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
a very important component of this agenda is to promote smart, secure, sustainable and innovative egovernment centred on using the tools and systems made possible by information and communication technologies to provide better public services to citizens and businesses.
malian citizens have the right to fair access to resources, sustainable and equitable development of their regions and redistribution of wealth.
- the report 'women and climate change' is a prime example of the left-leaning ideologisation of all sectors of society.
− according to the rapporteur, gender-based discrimination is found everywhere in our societies, and she believes it essential that it be taken into consideration in climate policies in order to avoid worsening the situation – an opinion with which i fully agree.
even if the link between women and climate change is not immediately obvious, this is because women are not a homogenous group around the globe, and most probably because gender is not a sufficiently universal factor.
it is also important to use climate policies to change current mindsets by including groups which defend women’s rights in negotiation processes and funding mechanisms that improve women’s education.
- biodiversity means 'diversity of life'.
there have been ice ages and droughts, continents have shifted and the climate has changed.
not all environmental changes are man-made and therefore cannot be controlled or directed by man.
for us, as greens, the positive aspects of this report as negotiated in committee are the inclusion – and our thanks go to mr rinaldi and all the other shadow rapporteurs – of environmental issues, of sensitivities on the environment and ecology, and of the emphasis on social rights, with the provision that all social forces are to be included in negotiations for free trade agreements or indeed deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (dcftas), on transparency, on the inclusion of civil society and on the importance of regional cooperation and the need to go through the agadir framework.
− the rapporteur stresses the importance of limiting derogations from the pic-procedure because it is the role of the eu to ensure that the chemicals exported do not cause negative consequences, either to humans or to the environment, and therefore this report has to be supported.
− the rapporteur stresses the necessity of appropriate political, social and environmental commitments by the third countries, dialogue among minorities, religious groups and political parties, promotion of local know-how, guaranteeing equivalent social, environmental and phytosanitary standards, and highlights the importance of compliance with international labour law.
the business climate for smes has deteriorated in the context of the global economic downturn.
every citizen must save and turn every penny around twice so as not to waste it.
if greece has only 3% of solar energy and billions are being spent on oil and gas, that is something that can be used for jobs.
the interparliamentary delegation to china has asked me to devote a little more attention to the energy transition in the people's republic.
it is clear that in the current five-year plan the chinese are defining renewable energy - and not just photovoltaics - as a strategic growth industry and are taking massive measures to secure a technological lead, to establish industry in their own country and to enter the business massively through ownership and dumping issues.
we know the problem, particularly in the field of renewable energies, that for a long time so-called european partners were allowed to own only 20% of joint ventures.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
therefore, an ambitious and balanced investment agreement between the eu and china needs to be negotiated in order to create a better environment for european investors in china.
so we need an effective sustainability chapter.
for example, labour and environmental conventions only have to be implemented when there are enough resources.
we pay taxes on everything: on labour, on energy.
- oil tankers wrecked pose a major threat to the marine ecosystem.
i voted for the report because it should be a quick solution for the eu as a whole, because it would be important, above all for the environment, but also for the fisheries sector, to counteract the potential danger posed by oil tankers.
− the long-term economic damage caused by oil tanker accidents is immense and the consequences for our environment as a whole are incalculable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
an oil plague caused by an oil tanker accident is an ecological disaster and a tragedy for man and beast.
the new protocol promotes responsible and sustainable fishing and a partnership based on respect for the fisheries-specific laws and regulations of the european union and mozambique.
with the 12th chinese five-year plan (2011-2015), the central idea of which is that china’s growth is balanced out by an increase in domestic consumption and by sustainable development that could open up new opportunities for the european economy.
the current and, above all, ongoing structural crisis shows that we in europe need to look for new opportunities for sustainable economic growth.
the open economy is growing and new, particularly sustainable jobs can be created by a resource-efficient economy.
we need to address some areas that have been overlooked, such as the growing world population and the associated increase in food consumption, and the sustainable management of our ecosystems.
i therefore support the calls for a sustainable and resource-efficient approach to food consumption, raw materials and materials.
i believe that this energy roadmap shows a great many opportunities where we can not only increase economic performance in europe, as in the title today, but also ensure a sustainable quality of life.
sustainability and resource efficiency are the keywords with which the eu wants to take a leading role in the world.
the crisis has not alone led to a rapid rise in youth unemployment - a situation which is not sustainable in the long term.
responsibility towards european citizens, towards small and mediumsized enterprises, but above all towards the environment.
this will help to provide self-help and enable the eu to use its influence in the region in a positive and sustainable way.
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mr ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the protection of critical information infrastructures results and next steps: the road to global network security (2011/2284 (ini)) (a7-0167/2012).
- in recent years, the energy supply has been a constant source of pressure, as in the gas dispute in the freezing winter.
cooperation in some areas of energy policy, such as joint purchasing to obtain favourable conditions, may be useful, but i cannot agree in principle to a transfer of national powers to brussels on a larger scale.
nor can one escape the impression that energy market liberalisation has not delivered what the eu promised it would.
in addition to the energy sector, the level of support varies widely, as countries rely on different energy sources - some on environmentally friendly technologies, others on nuclear power - and also have different priorities for energy infrastructure.
the forced settlement of nomads, i would like to stress this, is not only a blow to tibetan culture but also a problem for the ecological state of the tibetan highlands.
sustainable growth can only come about if we abandon the unilateral policy of austerity.
the trade agreement aims to promote sustainable development in these countries and this ultimately benefits europe.
but we must provide sustainable 'self-help' and i voted for the resolution because it will allow the eu to continue to use its influence in this region in a positive and sustainable way.
this directive is an adaptation of the seveso ii directive, and its purpose is to prevent major chemical accidents, such as those which have occurred here in europe, for example in seveso, schweizerhalle, toulouse, etc., or, if accidents do occur, to introduce the corresponding protective measures for the population and the environment.
but at the same time, of course, we must ensure that the environment and people are protected from the dangers of such plants.
i really ask that we have contingency plans that involve the public, that we have contingency plans that really address the concerns of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that this is done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemicals.
dear matthias groote, you are the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− major industrial accidents are a recurrent cause of loss of life, destruction of public and private property and serious damage to the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is guaranteed.
− europe needs a company law framework that is adapted to the needs of the society of today and to the evolution of the economic environment.
of course, there are many factors that affect water budget, i'm thinking of climate change, population growth, urbanization, land use, etc.
it also sets sustainability objectives: the aim is to achieve good ecological and chemical status for all european waters by 2015. however, we have several implementation gaps, as we have unfortunately now discovered.
you know that climate change has a strong impact on water resources.
we find that there are huge efficiency gaps, especially among the big water users, that involve industry, agriculture and energy production.
we have achieved a great deal in this area, for example, we have already spent eur 14 billion on waste water treatment in the european regional policy and we have also connected an additional 12% of citizens to the waste water network.
i have to say, madam president, given the amount of water used to produce a biotomat in a spanish greenhouse and the fact that in the southern eu countries agriculture is particularly affected by water leakage from outdated pipes, it seems a little strange that the commission is suing germany, austria, denmark, finland and sweden for water waste.
secondly, i would like to stress the energy efficiency directive.
but i hope that with your continued support as the country of denmark, we can bring about this energy revolution, that we can create these thousands and perhaps even millions of jobs that have potential here.
no, we will not run out of work if we concentrate in particular on the energy transition, if we want to carry out the so-called greening of the economy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis.
we have achieved a very great deal here, and i hope that some of the countries that are resisting now will come to see that in the future we should have really binding energy efficiency regulations.
overall, however, it must be said that all the efforts of the danish presidency to achieve sustainability in a european debt union will prove futile.
i hope he will put more pressure on the commission to change this unfair system of charging, which is also a source of waste and waste water.
− the baltic sea macro-region, launched in 2009, aims to better address the economic and environmental problems in the region.
sustainable water management is essential to ensure that all ecosystems have access to enough high-quality water.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
− excessive consumption of clean tap water and the consequences of global climate change are reasons for the eu to develop a ‘blueprint to safeguard europe’s water resources’.
in view of the continuing dependence on energy policy, such an approach could quickly become a means of ownership.
today’s reports have given the european parliament an opportunity to back important measures to promote generational renewal in the sector, and the young farmers of europe are counting on other meps to mirror mr capoulas santos’ support for measures to enhance demographic sustainability as well as to encourage member states to endorse such a crucial policy for generational renewal in european agriculture.
− it is not by chance that a policy to which an important part of the eu budget is allocated is the one that regulates the rural development of large areas of the eu and guarantees that farmers can continue producing in compliance with certain requirements that are designed to protect consumers and the environment.
among such materials are agricultural products and seeds, tobacco, chemicals, ferrous metals and energy minerals, etcetera – all materials very important for eu.
− this report focuses on the successive reforms of the cap which have increased market orientation for agriculture while providing income support to producers, so that now the same reform process has raised demands for a better distribution of support among and within member states, as well as calls for a better targeting of measures aiming at addressing environmental challenges and better addressing increased market volatility.
− the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 (commission communication) can be seen as an open door, leading to a clear and equivalent animal welfare level within the eu, and it is much welcomed as far as it contains so many aspects of parliament’s resolution of 5 may 2010. a high level of animal welfare is a part of sustainable development and is important to protect animal health, public health and the productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe.
of course, these project bonds are a bit clever, but only if they are sustainable and if the political foundations are also created.
in concrete terms, the energy transition in germany would require 3,800 kilometres of railway network, but only 100 kilometres of corresponding transmission lines have been built, because it also fails to meet the resistance of citizens, who are very ecologically oriented.
madam president, i do not know whether you have noticed that there is a border between turkey and greece and that this border has been increasingly used for illegal migration for several months, and that subsequently several migration movements from greece to the european union take place and that not all those who come are actually refugees, but many even bring a criminal energy.
if we think about access to drinking water, we are almost there, and the waste water treatment is not so bad.
how far one can go and whether media abuse is sustainable is another question.
in an environment of rising leases of forage land, higher feed prices, rising diesel prices and similar developments, government regulations, even if they are in principle welcome - for example, for environmental protection or for consumer confidence and food safety - can give small farmers across europe the rest.
it is their area that is particularly affected by these ship emissions and where the greatest health problems have occurred.
it is also clear that we saw a need for action here, because otherwise by 2020 all the successes we would have achieved in air pollution on the mainland would have been lost to the sharp increase in maritime traffic.
but this must not mean that this will lead to additional air pollution and therefore to additional deaths in europe.
we want a clean environment.
energy efficiency is really something for sunday talks.
it is clear that if we are to achieve the energy transition to which we have all committed ourselves, we must not only do something on the supply side, that is to say, invest in renewable energy, but also on the demand side.
here, energy efficiency is certainly the most cost-effective way we can do this.
i am frankly a little disappointed that the member states are so reluctant to accept a fixed target, as we agreed in 2008, also in energy efficiency.
we would be spared the energy bureaucracy we have created with this proposal and this report.
− energy efficiency is one of the core elements of the flagship initiative 'a resource-efficient europe' announced under the europe 2020 strategy.
as set out in the commission communication 'roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050', energy efficiency is one of the aspects of the low-carbon economy that can contribute to job creation in the short and medium term through more intensive training, further training, programmes to increase the uptake of new technologies, and r&d and entrepreneurship.
this proposal for a directive emphasises that the transition to a more energy-efficient economy will also improve the competitiveness of industry in the union, thereby promoting economic growth and creating quality jobs in a number of sectors related to energy efficiency.
the fundamental question is whether the measures planned will actually be able to reduce or limit global warming.
− energy efficiency also affects the main areas of climate change, energy supply, green growth and social protection.
to limit global warming, ambitious action is needed - and energy efficiency can make a cheap and rapid contribution.
energy efficiency can also have a positive impact on the economy.
coastal and inland waterway vessels consume much less fuel per transport unit and emit correspondingly less carbon dioxide than lorries.
− the proposed changes are intended to achieve significant benefits for health and the environment, while at the same time levelling costs.
as the commission estimates that the monetary health benefits will outweigh the cost of reducing emissions from ships by a factor of 225 and the health benefits will amount to eur 816 billion, while the costs are estimated by the commission to be only eur 0.63.7 billion, i welcome the proposed amendments and vote in favour of the report.
this decision is important for the environment and may be the most important health-related innovation in the current election period.
emissions should also be reduced by alternative methods (see also liquefied natural gas, liquefied natural gas (lng)).
− this report places particular emphasis on sustainability in many aspects (consumption, transport, politics in international relations) and social justice (adequate representation of women, working conditions, benefits, education and childcare).
if we want a green economy, we need a common definition, the inclusion of the issue of equality and also the creation of a sustainable energy-efficient and healthy society.
mr barroso, your plans today really speak of commitment, of energy and of looking in the right direction.
this is where direct help is needed, through targeted investment in education, health and the environment and in jobs.
the social environment of victims is also affected by crime and should be included in victim support.
the european union is responsible for ensuring sustainable fishing, and therefore an appropriate legal rule is needed to give the eu the ability to react to uncooperative behaviour by states.
at the same time, sustainability should not be forgotten, and attention is paid to the situation of fishermen, consumers and also to the problem of overfishing and accidental by-catch.
it must also try to influence certain other things: the question of human rights, the question of social standards, the question of ecological aspects.
we want to create a good working environment for small and mediumsized enterprises across the political groups.
the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making needs to be adapted to the current legal environment created by the lisbon treaty.
− the argument that a reliable energy supply is best secured by a functioning internal energy market is not borne out by the experience of the consequences of energy market liberalisation efforts and privatisation problems in general.
the bills of the energy companies are so complex that they are almost impossible to compare.
i can only agree with a few of the statements in the report, such as the concern about the eu's continued high energy dependence.
the commission should be present in future in negotiations between a member state and a third country in the field of energy policy, according to the report.
energy policy in the eu is not uniform and accordingly the requirements in an intergovernmental agreement will be completely different.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment.
the priorities for the forthcoming 2013 budget are mainly in support of sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment.
only well-educated young people - and also older people - have a chance of a sustainable job.
the idea is good, and so is the transparency it promotes, but without effective marketing means it is a waste of money.
we all want to provide a good working environment for small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises across all political groups.
they are key players in the european economy in times of crisis and are definitely an engine that can and does contribute to growth and sustainability.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the idea is good, and so is the transparency it promotes, but it is not an effective marketing tool and is a waste of money.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
it seems that the commission has, in addition to its regulatory agenda for financial markets - which i of course welcome very much - a 'deregulation agenda' for the area of our companies and their environment.
the pretext of making the working environment easier for all enterprises (and with 98% of small and mediumsized enterprises in the eu, i can speak of all) in order to boost the economy and industry in europe, weakens the existing aquis in europe.
it is true that we want to relieve micro-enterprises as much as possible, but not in terms of basic requirements in the european union in the field of health and safety at work or basic eu workers' rights or basic principles of environmental legislation.
− the benefits of a single airspace are clear increased competition/growth, positive effects on employment and the environment, and the entire value chain.
key areas include good governance, 'sustainable, broad-based economic growth' and the development of social protection systems in developing countries.
the start-up and business-friendly environment in europe should be promoted.
however, this regulation shall apply only until 31 december 2012. the current proposal aims to extend the period until 31 december 2014. the 12 nautical mile zone is of particular importance, not only for safety reasons but also for the sake of the sovereign environmental law and possible criminal prosecution.
− this agreement aims at the mutual protection of geographical indications in order to improve the conditions for bilateral trade between the european union and the republic of moldova, to promote quality in the food chain and to enhance the benefits for sustainable rural development.
the internal market is an essential instrument for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
in the face of the deepening structural crisis, it is more important than ever that all efforts be made to put households in order, to create sustainable jobs and to invest accordingly in education and training.
i also mention that we are in danger of not reaching the 2020 targets simply because the member states' target is too low and the measures taken have led to almost no progress in the areas of energy efficiency and employment.
i believe that we should understand and develop the danube region primarily as an economic axis, and then we will know that investment is only meaningful and sustainable if an overall approach is developed, which includes projects coming from the transport sector, going into the energy sector, including industrial policy and of course also extending to tourism projects.
i would like to join mrs jaakonsaari in pointing out a project which has been running in my home state of lower austria since 1989 between the town of baranowice in belarus and the municipality of stockerau: a town partnership which helps to ensure that local people also have the opportunity to get in touch with austrians, that there is an exchange through school projects, that children from baranowice come to stockerau and get to know a different environment here.
i have supported this resolution as a whole because it is designed to be fairer towards russia, which i welcome, particularly in the energy sector or in the area of public procurement.
− russia is an important economic partner for the european union and also of paramount importance for europe's energy supply.
with the social entrepreneurship initiative, europe is proving very proactive in shaping its social policy, especially in turbulent times, to meet demographic changes, the challenges of labour markets and the growing need for social services, in the context of the white and green economy, that is, within the framework of a broader social concept that includes the environment in addition to the traditional areas of health, care, education and care.
the report's main points are as follows: we are promoting the future demand for innovative products and services through a new innovative climate in social entrepreneurship, especially in the interest of young people who will find new, attractive and meaningful career opportunities here.
and one condition is most important for social entrepreneurship: the demonstrated social impact of the company's activity in society - whether it is in the care of school children of working mothers, in the care of dementia patients, in the counselling for the transition to environmental technologies or in a restaurant that employs young unemployed people.
− a policy for the sustainable management of offshore oil and gas activities is urgently needed.
− the offshore protocol, adopted on 14 october 1994, is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal areas of the mediterranean.
a policy for the sustainable management of offshore oil and gas activities is urgently needed, including to protect the environment from pollution from the exploration and extraction of raw materials.
these agreements, in addition to the acquisition of fishing rights for eu vessels, commit the parties to a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy.
- i voted for the bové report because the high-quality food produced in europe under strict environmental, animal welfare and health conditions needs a strong future-oriented marketing.
the report aims to ensure the functioning of the internal market, road safety, safety at work and environmental protection.
− a definition of social entrepreneurship: creating an 'ecosystem' to promote social enterprises as key players in the social economy and social innovation.
firstly, a reference to the fact that the existing directives on environmental impact assessment, the mining waste directive, the seveso ii directive, the habitats directive, etc.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a sustainable manner.
so i think that, despite all the euphoria and despite our wish that shale gas will prove to be a great source of energy and an alternative for us europeans, we must get back to the facts.
i'm not a fan of hydrofracking and shale gas because i also see the big environmental concerns.
our task should be to point out that there are problems and dangers and to urge the european commission in particular to comply with the european environmental standards for which we are responsible.
if the groundwater balance or other environmental assets are threatened, we must urge the commission to take the member states to task.
we are talking today about an important issue for the future of energy.
we know that shale gas is associated with drilling and that drilling is also used in connection with the use of geothermal energy.
i believe that in the future, if we comply with all environmental regulations, we can ensure an additional, long-term strategic supply of energy from geothermal energy, particularly from the depths where shale gas is being worked today, and that this energy source can be used for generations and in a very sustainable way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas coming to europe via pipelines is also given a green certificate, so that this gas is also tested in the same way to ensure that the same technological and environmental standards apply in countries outside europe.
only when this is ensured can this gas be placed on a par with renewable energy sources.
we should also look at the life cycle costs of the different energy sources, the environmental, social and all related costs.
we have very high employment rates in the countries supplying energy to europe - i think this is very positive - as well as high value added in these countries.
but we should not forget that new jobs must also be created in europe and that the energy sector could provide the conditions for this.
i am very glad that with the report from the environment committee we have a report which takes account of the fears, the worries and the ignorance, also in wide areas of science, of how this shale gas extraction will affect the environment and health.
but i do not think that this can be a future fossil energy with the knowledge we have today.
environmental impact assessments, but also very clear sanctions if they are not respected.
the fact that the price of raw materials is constantly fluctuating and the cost of energy is rising at the same time is undoubtedly making it difficult for steel producers to cope, and this has now also affected the scrap industry.
it faces tough global competition from competitors outside europe who do not have to produce at such high costs for energy, the environment and carbon credits.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
but when it comes to environmental and similar issues, for example, where a great many citizens are demanding action by the european union, or social rights, it is a little more difficult.
− the impact of the extraction of shale gas and other unconventional hydrocarbons have a strong influence on the global energy market; though, the same economic success the us had cannot be foreseen for europe.
at the same time, and in my view of utmost importance, are the protection and safety of humans and our environment.
the environmental consequences with regard to e.g.
studies of risks and environmental impact have been done, but there were no fundamental findings from the scientific point of view.
as long as the safety and health of the people and the environment are not guaranteed, i cannot vote in favour of exploring shale gas-resources.
− supply, efficiency, savings and resources of energy are all of utmost importance from the economical and political point of view.
health, security and protection of the environment are equally important.
the highest environmental and safety standard, as well as a stable and well defined legal framework and public information transparency are necessary.
i think we have had a very fruitful discussion on this subject in the committee on the environment and this resolution reflects very well what we think about this in the european parliament.
however, i must remind you that climate action is a global task and we must also face the reality that europe is now responsible for only about 10% of global emissions.
it's a fact that our factories operate with the lowest carbon emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
in addition, there are historic highs in non-waste funds, even though some member states receive their projects entirely from the eu!
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
these companies are an essential part of our renewable energy goals and need to be protected.
in order to ensure sustainable management and to protect the salmon stocks in the baltic sea, it is necessary to adopt appropriate measures, such as a reporting obligation, to control the recreational fishing element as well.
the advantages are obvious: firstly, the elimination of almost all customs duties a tariff relief of eur 90 billion per year is envisaged the strengthening of sanitary and phytosanitary standards with this agreement we go beyond the wto obligations, which means more effective protection for humans and animals the creation of equal opportunities european quality products with european indications of origin are thus also protected in central america and, above all, the strengthening of regional integration and the focus on sustainable development, i.e.
we have succeeded since the treaty of lisbon - and i think it must be admitted - as the european parliament in including something like a social dimension, a human rights dimension, an environmental dimension in these agreements, which may ultimately serve to improve the overall situation.
for example, my colleague from the committee on development, who has now chosen not to be present when someone wants to respond to what she says, claims that there are no human rights, no social clauses, no environmental protection.
in order to maintain credibility in the struggle for peace, for the welfare of the people, for human rights and for economic, social and ecologically sustainable development, this house should reject this agreement for all the reasons which its members have already stated, because these agreements are not consistent with the values which we have always defended.
it is therefore of particular importance because trade policy is sometimes criticised for not being sustainable.
the discussions on the trade agreement have repeatedly criticised the failure to take account of human and labour rights and environmental protection.
mrs köstinger has mentioned sustainability.
first, do you think sustainability also relates to the environment and environmental protection?
do you think it's very sustainable to import these products specifically?
and on the subject of palm oil and sustainability, will the substantial increase in palm oil imports not lead to the displacement of european dairy products?
i'd be very interested to see if this is sustainable.
we do not need to talk about the sustainability issues, particularly with regard to palm oil imports and the like, but here in europe we too have our tasks to fulfil and above all our homework to do.
if my colleague leichtfried thinks that importing asparagus and avocados from all over the world is smart and sustainable, then he has a different opinion from mine.
but i also believe that sustainability is important in terms of environmental protection in these countries.
and when i think that there's going to be more palm oil plantations in the future, that there are already millions of acres being planned, that there are going to be new palm oil plantations, i'm afraid that the rainforest, the water quality, the biodiversity are at risk, and only the transnational corporations are making money, and the small farmers are not making any money.
the commission has been trying to create a union-free environment by using some crazy methods.
trade union rights, a safe and healthy working environment and freedom of expression are fundamental human rights that must be respected.
it's also about sustainability, about protecting the environment.
in the future, these farms will be wiped out of the market by the big breeders, the big pharmaceutical companies, and we will be a lot poorer in terms of our biodiversity, in terms of domestic agriculture, in terms of small-scale agriculture.
peru is already planning to plant thousands of hectares of new palm oil plantations, which could cause significant damage to tropical forests, water quality and biodiversity, benefit only transnational corporations (again not the small farmer) and displace european dairy products.
rather, the environment needs to be designed to reduce stress factors that play a role in a number of age-related diseases in the long term, such as the double burden of work-life balance or the 'sandwich burden' of caring for children and frail parents at the same time.
it is not enough to put in nice words and persuade someone to practice sustainable livestock farming with low use of antibiotics; i am not sure that the report contains any specific objectives.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the euro crisis not only shows us very clearly that the increasing centralisation of powers in brussels is inefficient, harmful and expensive, it reminds us once again to undergo a fundamental reform of the eu structure, which will result in the renationalisation of many areas and the eu managing only those areas, such as transport or the environment, which should remain at eu level.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the last point on energy was also mentioned by some colleagues.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in hardly any other region in the world are the environmental constraints on steel production as high as in the eu, making it increasingly difficult for companies to compete in the global market.
the priority must be to modernise this sector in a sustainable way.