we can both testify that the climate here in the european parliament is much better than that which prevails in the european council.
so they are right that the crisis is far from over and that we still need a sustainable solution.
there is no sustainable solution for italy with today’s interest rates of six or seven percent.
when the directive first came out in 2003, we rightly focused on the problems of this throwaway society for our environment, air quality, soil quality and the social consequences of poorly dismantling and recycling this electronic material in third world countries.
commissioner, mrs lepage also wishes to welcome the very constructive attitude of the commission which has used all its energy to promote the compromise which is on the table tonight.
i believe that we have succeeded in creating a viable system which is more protective of the environment and the health of users, which was not possible in advance.
a policy that takes even greater care of sustainable agricultural practices.
it is also a policy that makes a concrete contribution to the fight against climate change.
in addition to this advantage for commercial operations, this resolution offers safety for pedestrians and is in line with environmental protection as leds have a long life.
the consumer society in which we live forces us to rethink the recycling of electrical and electronic waste.
the updating of the directive on this issue was necessary from an economic, environmental and social point of view.
it is just as unacceptable to waste raw materials such as gold, silver or palladium as it is to dump toxic products such as arsenic, cyanide, mercury, etc.
in doing so we have become accomplices in the export of toxic waste in disguise, leaving the men, women and children of the developing countries exposed to the toxic fumes of heavy metals and dioxins emitted by the incineration of waste.
belgium is the european champion in the collection of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
this is not to be taken lightly, with nearly 10 kilos of household appliances collected per capita thanks to the effectiveness of the recupel system that has been in place since 2001. this is an encouraging figure for environmental protection and well above the minimum collection target of 4 kg per capita per year set since 2003 by the european directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
of course, belgium and europe can still do better and draw inspiration from the very ambitious new collection targets set out in the european parliament-council agreement finalised this afternoon with the adoption of the florenz report: a collection target of 65% for 2019 based on the volume of electronic equipment in existence over the last three years, a new scope extended to solar panels in six years, and the incentive to separate waste for reuse addressed to member states.
to make the picture complete, the union must also set an example beyond its borders by combating the illegal export of hazardous electronic waste to third countries, a real health and environmental scourge, particularly on the african continent.
consumer waste is estimated at 90 million tonnes per year, while about 16 million people in the eu depend on food aid.
in view of these considerations, it was high time that the european parliament called on the commission and the eu member states to take concrete measures at national level to halve food waste by 2025. this is not only an economic, environmental and social imperative but also an ethical requirement for the poorest.
urgent and strategic measures are needed, by raising awareness of waste in general.
i voted in favour of the caronna report on a subject which is important for european households as it directly affects their budget and the value of saving money by avoiding food waste.
this is a growing practice, as according to a study by the commission, food waste in the 27 member states of the union amounts to 89 million tonnes (or 179 kg per person) and is expected to increase by 40% by 2020. but too often this waste is food that is perfectly edible, as opposed to food waste, but which is removed from the food chain for aesthetic reasons, or often because of the proximity of the expiry date.
everybody here knows that an interest rate of around 6% is not sustainable for italy.
whatever decision mr monti may take, it is not sustainable and italy cannot recover with a 6% interest rate.
of course, measures are also needed such as a shift of taxation from labour to the environment and wealth, common taxation instruments such as the financial transaction tax and finally a harmonisation of tax scales, particularly for corporate taxation.
immense progress in ethics, intelligence and organisation is essential at all levels, whether in the field of the environment, development cooperation, etc.
the challenges are many: population growth is accelerating, while the ecology and climate are deteriorating.
in addition, consumers expect a corresponding reduction in energy content when they hear the phrase '15% less sugar'.
however, the commission proposal allows the use of the advertising message even if the energy content remains the same due to other additives.
this leads to the impression being given to consumers that this product contains fewer calories due to the reduction in sugar, although the energy content remains the same.
− this report is very much to be welcomed as it promotes a sustainable and efficient waste management strategy.
there has been a high number of petitions on waste management plants, so it is useful to summarise the main problems in a report in order to be able to deal with them in practice.
these main problems include the lack of environmental impact assessments and existing deficiencies in waste management systems.
i welcome the fact that the acceleration of the implementation of the waste directive 2008/98/ec by the member states is explicitly called for.
the waste framework directive contains important rules which provide for the protection of both the environment and human health.
deficiencies in waste management systems cause environmental damage, such as groundwater pollution.
the adoption of this protocol, which recognises morocco as having a legal basis for participating in community programmes in seven fields such as energy, customs, entrepreneurship, consumer policy, research, health, etc., is a new political signal underlining our desire to make the euro-mediterranean partnership a reality and our support for the democratization efforts undertaken by the moroccan government.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme (16226/1/2011 c7-0012/2012 2010/0252 (cod)) (rapporteur: gunnar hökmark) (a7-0019/2012)
a little flower for mr. rübig, as it is valentine's day.
the commission will only regain confidence if it tackles with the same energy private and public debt, banks and states in difficulty, inequalities and public deficits, france and germany and all the states in difficulty.
i think the best way to ensure sustainable jobs in europe is to embark on the green transformation - sorry to use that adjective, but it is still the case - the green transformation of our economy.
if europe can become a world champion in energy efficiency, resource efficiency, that is, in raw materials, i think that is the best way for us to ensure sustainable jobs for today and for future generations.
− in times when stability and growth are at the centre of much discussion, unrestricted student mobility would be an initiative that does not require financial investment but would be one of the most sustainable ways of promoting the 'european knowledge base'.
furthermore, the european union's objective is 'to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion'.
accurate and high-quality data are essential for sustainable and balanced regional development.
indeed, in the demographic, economic and environmental sectors, statistics can be valuable for making decisions on regional development.
the main commodity agreement between cocoa exporters and importers, the international cocoa agreement aims to make global cocoa trade more equitable and sustainable.
on 29 february, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety unanimously adopted my report on the new regulation on specific foods.
in this context, parliament urged the new government to give priority to the reforms needed for bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the world trade organisation in order to encourage an even more positive business climate and attract more foreign investment.
we ask that oil companies be required to be transparent, respect the environment and clean up the damage they have caused to the environment.
let me repeat - and perhaps the commissioner should bring this back to the council's discussions - that this is an important issue not only from the point of view of climate and global warming, but also from the economic point of view.
by 2050, that economy has to be low carbon, there's no alternative.
the long-term economy needs to be saved, and that has everything to do with that low-carbon economy.
i am convinced that we as the eu are on the right track by making a strong commitment to a low-carbon and carbon-neutral society.
we are 500 million in the eu, but unfortunately that is not enough to stop global warming on our own.
that is why it is so important that five american nobel prize winners yesterday issued a very clear call to president obama to support the eu's measures to combat co2 emissions from aircraft.
we must not abandon this endeavour, because it obliges the other great powers to take a stand for their own public opinion and to make clear where they stand in the fight against global warming.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
- i am in favour of the ambitious targets set by europe in the field of environment and energy.
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is essential and the regulations must have a pan-european impact, because air does not stop at the borders of europe.
the european emissions trading system is a good example of how international opposition to a regulation agreed at european level can be met just before it enters into force.
the large energy-consuming companies are concerned that companies may have to leave europe to avoid the high costs of measures to reduce co2 in the air.
such measures will have a negative impact on the european economy and will do nothing to reduce the dangers of greenhouse gas emissions.
therefore, the adoption of the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 must serve as a basis for policy decisions.
among the reasons for satisfaction: the achievement of one of the 8 millennium development goals (ensuring a sustainable environment): 89% of the world's population now has access to water, more than 6 billion people connected to a drinking water network or who can access uncontaminated wells.
in view of the scarcity of water resources and recurrent droughts, it is obvious that it must secure its water supply through rational use in agriculture and in the urban environment.
other ways to do this include increasing the area of woodland to protect soil and water, and using good agricultural practices to combat the excessive use of water contaminants (nitrogen, phosphorus and pesticides) which have harmful effects on human health and the environment.
thirdly: the european investment bank should ensure that compliance with all eu standards, as well as with all international environmental, social and human rights standards, is a systematic condition for eib financing.
finally, the fourth and positive point is that the eib is focusing on the fight against climate change and is committed to renewable energy.
in this connection, we say very clearly: the eib, in this context, should focus on decentralised, small-scale and off-grid projects, ensuring that rural areas have good access to energy.
it is enough to stress its unfailing contribution to nato and the fact that it is the union's energy corridor for the oil and gas resources of the caucasus and the caspian.
it seemed important to complete the adoption of this report by voting on amendment no 3, which welcomes the eib's particular attention to climate change, in particular renewable energy, and calls on the eib to put universal access to energy at the heart of its energy sector engagement by supporting small-scale, decentralised off-grid projects, particularly in rural areas.
but it is my view that at the moment the kofi annan six-point plan is where we have to concentrate our energy.
there are problems with human rights, with macroeconomic management, and with health, education and energy.
it will be a win-win situation for both sides, and of course we also rely on you to push for balanced development with full respect for the local population and the ecological richness of this country.
if they cannot do it with 27 - which i still hope they can - then with fewer, but i hope they can do it with 27.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
the way we tax energy in the european union today is not an incentive to switch to renewable energy, nor is it in any way an incentive to energy efficiency.
i must say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are very good at voting on fine resolutions in this parliament on the sustainable and green economy, but when it comes to real dossiers, to concrete matters and we have to show a little courage, we are often lacking in that.
i was more ambitious, but i can live with what is now, because the essential proposals of the commission have been withheld, such as taxing energy on the basis of both content and co2, the phasing out of commercial diesel and other important principles.
the european parliament will deliver its final opinion on the reform of the existing tax on energy products tomorrow.
i support the commission's wish to split the existing energy tax into two components, the energy content on the one hand and the co2 component on the other.
together, these two components will also determine the rate at which the different energy products will be treated.
energy efficiency also plays a very important role here, as do the environmentally friendly products which we hope to encourage.
i therefore hope that the european parliament will support the european commission's proposal to achieve a fairer energy tax.
member states should be encouraged to tax competing energy products used for the same purposes, such as motor fuels, in an equal and proportionate manner.
equal calculation based on their co2 emissions and their energy content.
that also means that we leave the choice of energy product to the market.
it is the consumers, the companies, who choose their energy product and no longer we as politicians.
we will also allow new sources of energy to have a fair chance on the market and to gain greater market access at that time.
it also encourages innovation, it is an incentive to look for the most energy-efficient energy products.
i will certainly be thinking about the future when i vote tomorrow, asking the member states to tax energy products in a uniform way, without favouring certain fuels as has happened in the past.
the opinion of the european parliament to the member states is of course not binding, but i would nevertheless call on the member states to opt for a fair and sustainable tax structure based on equal and proportional treatment of all energy products.
we are talking about finally basing the taxation of energy products on facts, that is to say, stopping subsidies for one form of fuel at the expense of another on a basis which is nothing other than industry pressure.
mr langen, your turn will come, and indeed the nuclear industry causes externalities, if i may use economic language, of a different nature and of a different scale than the climate externalities we are talking about with renewable energies, and it too will have to contribute to correcting these externalities.
some countries have already started and will highlight the fact that this form of energy is not economically viable.
i believe that energy consumption must be matched by a price signal for the consumer and above all i believe that, in order to avoid distortions in the internal market, we must try to bring our tax practices closer together.
the principle of proportionality of the various levels of taxation of energy products therefore seems to me to be a necessity.
however, if we are to achieve our objectives in terms of reducing co2 emissions or energy efficiency, then our collective decisions must not penalise citizens or sectors particularly exposed to price volatility on world markets, and i am thinking of the agricultural sector, for example.
as the fictional rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i support an ambitious but above all sustainable approach for all.
− the new eu rules on taxation of energy products must make a real contribution to the clean energy transition and the reduction of co2.
at a time of increased demand for energy products, and given that the eu remains highly energy dependent and thus subject to price controls from abroad, there is a huge pressure on industry and thus on eu citizens.
to improve this situation, renewable energy sources should be promoted, as they are essential for economic development.
the real question is not how to tax traditional energy but how to create incentives for the use of renewable energy.
energy products must compete so that better energy can make the breakthrough tomorrow.
the aim is therefore to reduce the tax gap between diesel and petrol, not necessarily by raising the diesel tax, but more importantly to give sustainable energy a better place in this 'energy race', which is what this proposal continues to miss.
citizens face incredible difficulties in meeting their household energy bills.
it is therefore up to them to develop this debate, by forcing the commission to take a more positive approach to environmental matters and to ensure that the desired harmonization does not involve an automatic increase in taxes.
the lulling report, which aims to revise the 2003 energy taxation directive, justifies the proposal for taxation of energy products on the basis of the need to achieve the objectives of european energy policy as well as those of industrial policy.
although it is essential to reduce pollution and co2 levels, i consider the lulling report to be a penalising one when, by increasing the taxation of energy products, it only aggravates the economic difficulties of the citizens most affected by the crisis we are going through.
the fight against climate change must be implemented without the most vulnerable paying the highest cost.
- i voted with conviction in favour of the report by mr lulling on major changes in the taxation of energy products and electricity.
the current energy tax system does not provide sufficient incentives for energy consumers to reduce their energy consumption and to opt for cleaner energy.
in some cases, taxation even encourages the use of more polluting forms of energy, such as coal.
everyone benefits from the transition to cleaner energy and more efficient energy use and reduction of co2 emissions.
the amendments to the energy taxation regulations will make a major contribution to this.
in the epp group we support the principle that taxes on motor fuels, fuel oil and electricity should henceforth be based on both energy content and co2 emissions, and that a product should be taxed more heavily the more polluting it is.
this should be a criterion that takes into account the socially sustainable production process aimed at the choice of local products evaluated according to the producer's behaviour and the method of work.
the impact on public health and consumer safety, all of which have a direct effect on our economy and sustainable development, should also be considered.
so it is not being put into renewable energy, which has immediate effects.
we have to get out of this slowly, and the nuclear fusion illusion is something that, in an almost ideological way -- even religious way -- some people want to believe in, when we have no evidence that by 2050, or even 2080, it will provide any kind of answer to our energy problems.
i do not understand why you are presenting this project as a flagship project, when neither you nor i nor anyone else is sure that it will actually solve our energy problems, and why you are claiming that the crisis is an alibi.
mr president, our rapporteur, jo leinen, has stressed how important it is for our parliament and for the union to keep the environment at the top of its agenda.
this is what i shall call, in summary, the tobacco case law: the european union must abolish all subsidies for products which have adverse effects on the environment and on biodiversity.
secondly, there is another aspect which has not been mentioned much so far, namely the need to take better account of environmental health.
we have been recalling this since 2003 and since my report on the environment/health action plan.
that's why it's critical to add this environmental component to plans to fight cancer, alzheimer's, obesity, all of the chronic diseases that explode in unhealthy environments.
when i first read the report on women and climate change, i thought it was a satirical text, a persiflage to mock the atmosphere of political correctness that is alien to this parliament, but it turns out to be bitterly serious.
the first of these is the fact that women are more likely to consume in a sustainable way and are more willing to protect the environment than men.
i would suggest, however, that since we seem to have time to deal with such matters here, that this report be followed by a report on men and climate change, gays and climate change, redheads and left-handers and climate change, why not also stamp collectors and climate change, with my apologies to all the demographic groups and subgroups that i could not mention here.
for some years now, europe - and we must admit this on 9 may - has been navigating without a horizon, without ambition, without hope, apparently unable, for the time being, to find a new direction and sustainable solutions.
the discharge of the council and iter on the one hand, and the agency for medicinal products for human use, the european food safety authority and the environment agency on the other.
there is a fundamental distinction between the ema and the efsa on the one hand and the environment agency on the other.
the ema and the efsa have been under fire for years, and we at the environment agency would like to put the dots on the i. as regards the ema and the efsa, i would like to draw attention to the financing of both agencies.
with regard to the efsa: i visited the food safety authority in parma last week with a delegation from the environment committee.
finally, the environment agency, very briefly.
i call for close cooperation between parliament and the environment agency to clarify these matters so that we can give discharge in october.
in times of economic crisis, when austerity is required of the member states, we must be particularly vigilant in ensuring that the union uses its financial resources with caution in order to limit waste and fraud as much as possible.
as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment and public health, i have seen firsthand how rightly efsa has been in the news with the resignation of its chairwoman, diana banati, who has taken over the leadership of a major food industry lobby.
if we do not put in place an investment programme that makes europe a world champion in energy efficiency, resource efficiency, we are missing the only real opportunity for european economic leadership in the 21st century.
we have accumulated a considerable social and environmental debt and so, if we are all prepared to say that we are in favour of a debt brake mechanism on these three levels, then you will have us on board without any restrictions.
but we point out that sustainable financing of a stable social security and health system, which benefits all provinces of the country equally, is one of the greatest challenges facing the chinese government in the near future.
i cannot say that i would sign every word of it, but i think it is a good report which has emphasized the essential points: so, as everyone has said, the question of reciprocity is extremely important, with fair competition and clear rules; there is also all that has been said about intellectual property rights, counterfeiting and piracy and here i sign with both hands , including the firm request to the chinese to introduce international rules into their legislation and to check their implementation; finally, there is another important element, namely to invite european companies which have succeeded in entering the chinese market to set an example in social and environmental standards - all this is important - and then to ask the commission to coordinate bilateral policies towards china better.
we can no longer ignore it: in addition to an economic, a financial and a climate crisis, we are headed for a resource crisis.
that's good for the environment, but it's also vital for the survival of our economy.
so for the love of god, stop with this european meddling and this pollution of concepts.
the initiative 'a resource-efficient europe' is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in addition, this flagship initiative aims to establish a policy framework to support the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy, which will help: boost economic performance while using fewer resources; seek and create new opportunities for economic growth; to step up innovation and enhance the union's competitiveness; to ensure security of supply of essential resources; to combat climate change and to limit the impact of resource use on the environment.
− the idea that we not only need to be resource-conscious, but also that we need to promote renewable energy in particular, seems to be supported by almost all political parties.
the different majorities in european governments are all facing the same challenge: to promote growth, to protect the environment and not to weaken their own country by the measures they take; environmental dumping is becoming the new challenge, which is even more formidable at the global level than at the eu level.
to improve the use of their resources, member states must remove any obstacles to the proper functioning of the european waste recycling and reuse market.
promoting research and technological innovation in areas such as waste collection and sorting could indeed be a way of maximising our resources.
gradually phasing out certain inefficient subsidies and replacing them with smart environmental taxation will help boost the eu's competitiveness.
the fight against waste must therefore be one of the union's objectives in the years ahead, particularly in the key areas of food, housing and mobility.
as rapporteur in 2005 on legislation on the eco-design of energy-using products, i know how much action upstream is the best way to protect our resources.
how can we justify, for example, that the standstill of technological products contributes to 1% of global energy expenditure?
there was, of course, realpolitik, with the energy context, our crisis, what azerbaijan could represent in terms of pipelines that would allow us to bypass russia, etc.
there are also other non-tariff barriers, for example of a fiscal nature, of an environmental nature, and so on.
the general approach of the council is to close the original proposals of the commission which we believe to be an important contribution to ensuring sound and sustainable public finance in the euro area and thereby also to growth and employment, with those two things being two sides of the same coin.
i also want to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs for a very substantive and, may i say, constructive economic dialogue yesterday evening in which we discussed the european semester as well as our strategy for sustainable growth and job creation, and also discussed issues like the recent decision of the euro area to provide a credit line for the restructuring of the spanish banking sector.
yes, it is true that we need sustainable public finances.
in other words, we also need, in addition to, not in place of, of course, a form of debt mutualisation that allows us to have interest rates that make debt sustainable.
we also need, and this is even more important, fiscal convergence to ensure that we not only have sustainable expenditure but that we have revenue that is capable of financing that expenditure.
indeed, it seems to me that we have a real role to play in respecting international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
the european union is working to develop relations and build partnerships with third countries, supporting the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries with the key aim of eradicating poverty.
the activities of voluntary organisations provide essential support for the social, intergenerational and environmental needs of today's society.
and as the edith herczog report points out, this dependence of the union on energy imports is likely to increase over the next ten years.
faced with this reality, europe needs to develop a strategy of cooperation across eu borders to secure its energy supply.
if the union as a whole, which is a major energy buyer, defends a common position on this matter, it will be able to assert its interests in its negotiations with the neighbouring countries.
to strengthen their geopolitical independence and energy security, member states must promote the existence of a genuine internal energy market, capable of withstanding external pressures.
energy security also requires diversification of suppliers.
to diversify its energy sources, the eu must ensure the continuity of the infrastructure construction defined in its energy strategy 2020 .
it will thus gradually benefit from more strategic energy cooperation with third countries, notably through the nabucco project and the africa-eu energy partnership.
today, the european parliament said it was not ready to approve the next regulation on the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020) without a political agreement on the reform of the own resources system that would end existing rebates and other correction mechanisms, and lead to greater transparency, fairness and sustainability .
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, by its unanimous vote on my draft report on 29 february, sent a clear signal, which i will summarize as follows: the approach of the commission to simplify this legislation and abolish the concept of dietetic food, which i have just mentioned, is the right one.
the increase in flexibility of 1% per year did not help because, in an unfavourable market environment - i remember what happened in the autumn of 2009 - it caused the most serious crisis the sector has experienced in the last 25 years.
research, sustainable development, services sector here are some of the niches to find to create jobs.
incentives are provided to reduce noise pollution and to enhance interoperability.
so my message today is that we should not waste time again.
a directive dated 2000 provides a 'framework' for regulating water management and sets sustainability objectives to be achieved by 2015. the report seeks to analyse the current state of implementation of eu legislation, highlighting successes but also the main problems to be overcome to improve it.
the single market, a key driver of economic growth, must be completed, including through the full implementation of energy and services legislation.
receiving wages, paying pensions, paying energy bills, purchasing products or services all prove very difficult if one cannot have a basic bank account.
the financial and economic crisis that is striking our continent in a very specific way, more than any other continent, is a reality that immediately puts to the waste all the fairy tales and all the hooray-sayings about - and i quote - "the organisation of the world's most efficient economy" or the land of milk and honey that the euro would create.
we all know dozens or hundreds of examples of the total waste of taxpayers' money by the european institutions themselves, apart from the fact that european money is by definition always spent less well.
we are talking about completely useless advisory bodies and agencies, about policy areas where europe does not really add value, about a subsidy policy full of abuses, about mega-funds, about foolish euro-friendly propaganda, and even about the gigantic waste of european development aid policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals and the environment.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is true that others have said it before me the state of the european union's public finances is such that we obviously must not deprive ourselves of any tool to promote a number of indispensable investments at european level, in the field of transport, energy or broadband.
we have indeed tried - and i thank the rapporteur - to introduce more stringent sustainability criteria in the selection of projects, because all infrastructure construction is not necessarily beneficial for the european union and may also create an ecological debt which we will have to pay off one day.
i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for a european allocation of eur 230 million in guarantees to support the private issuance of bonds to finance infrastructure projects ('project bonds') related to transport, energy and information technologies.
our only chance of reviving the european machine is to attract private investors to mobilizing projects in the transport, energy and information technology sectors.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on pharmacovigilance (amending directive 2001/83/ec) (com(2012) 0052 - c7-0033/2012 2012/0025 cod)) (a7-0165/2012), and- the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on pharmacovigilance (amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 (com ((2012) 0051 c7-0034/2012 2012/0023/cod)) (a7-0164/2012).
ships therefore contribute up to 30% of sulphur dioxide emissions in the north sea countries.
efforts we are making on land are increasingly threatened to be undone by rising shipping emissions.
the channel between britain and the north sea coast is one of the busiest shipping lanes in the world and because of our location we experience a lot of the negative impact of shipping emissions there.
at the same time, further efforts are needed to increase shore-side electricity in ports and to convert lng (liquid natural gas) to ships, which have a significantly lower environmental impact.
− with this new directive, we are taking a big step forward in achieving the europe 2020 climate targets.
this is not only good for further reducing co2 emissions; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new energy efficiency legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new energy efficiency legislation.
better information on energy bills and initiatives by energy suppliers to save 1.5 per cent of energy each year will encourage us all to be more conscious about energy use.
3% of central government buildings will need to be renovated annually to make them more energy efficient.
this energy efficiency directive could have been more ambitious, i admit.
but what is certain is that we are on the right track to a better environment, more jobs and less energy dependence.
on tuesday, we voted by a very large majority for a directive which should enable europe to improve its energy efficiency by around 15% by the end of the decade.
the text, which will have to be transposed into national law by the beginning of 2014, requires member states to renovate 3% of public buildings every year in order to achieve energy efficiency (note, however, that under pressure from several countries and given the current state of public funds in europe, municipal and regional administrative buildings which represent 12% of offices in europe will not be subject to this obligation).
in contrast, european energy suppliers will have to take measures to reduce their customers' consumption by 1.5% each year between 2014 and 2020. the directive also requires member states to adopt national energy efficiency plans which will be submitted to the european commission.
2. the all member states should develop a 2050 roadmap for buildings, addressing, inter alia, social housing and reducing energy poverty.
3. the all publicly owned buildings must undergo a 2.5% annual major renovation (representing energy savings of at least 70%).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we have indeed approved by a large majority (606 votes in favour, 55 against and 13 abstentions) the provisional agreement reached with the council on the proposal to reduce particulate sulphur emissions from ships (directive 93/12/eec).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
donations must be voluntary and made without profit in a transparent environment.
and it's true, you haven't talked enough about the ecological crisis, because we're reaching and exceeding the physical limits of the planet.
the aim is to simplify the operation of the mutual recognition agreement, which entered into force on 1 january 1999. the text, for example, removes technical barriers to trade and specifies the objectives of each party in the areas of health, safety and the environment.
the fact that this has not strengthened any country but has weakened europe is something we must recognise in many areas of policy, including the strengthening of the democratic voice of citizens in many countries and the demand for social or environmental standards.
i would just like to point out that if we put the sustainability of resources on the back burner and if we do not allow the stocks that have been overfished to be replenished, for example, we will soon be past the point of no return.
beyond this saving, the cessation of the monthly shuttle service between brussels and strasbourg would reduce the ecological footprint of our assembly by 20 000 tonnes of co2 per year.
i therefore welcome the vote today, in which a large majority of members call on the member states to reconsider the question of the seat and places of work of parliament at the next revision of the treaty by amending protocol 6. the vote today once again gives a clear signal of the willingness of meps to participate fully in the budgetary and environmental efforts of its member states.
but confidence has not yet been restored, and it is precisely that confidence which is needed to restore a financial and economic climate conducive to economic growth and employment.
the single sky is supposed to reduce travel times, and therefore co2 emissions and airfares, while increasing safety and job creation.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the future of the single european sky, which aims to achieve a safe, efficient and sustainable single european sky, which is favourable to both our travellers and our businesses.
a number of functional airspace blocks (fabs) should be created, which will shorten routes, reduce delays, save fuel, thus protect the environment and also reduce air fares.
the new provisions will help to intensify the expectations for 2004: better congestion control; enhanced and truly unique security; a reduction in flight times by 10%, a reduction in delays and cancellations by 50% and finally a reduction in ticket prices; a reduction in co2 emissions; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area.
in this respect, according to a study by the european commission which i found particularly interesting, the rapid and full implementation of the new generation european air traffic management system (sesar) would reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes and create 328 000 jobs, which i believe is a key element.
i voted in favour of this text and would like to stress in particular the importance of member states' compliance with the completion of the single european sky in order to achieve significant safety and environmental savings by creating a more sustainable aviation sector and a more efficient air traffic management system at european level.
i voted against the macovei report, which meant voting for the 2010 discharge of the european environment agency.
i regret that this report and its motives have jeopardized the granting of this important landfill, which is consistent with europe's desire to make the environment a priority.
culture is a vector of openness and a motor of democracies acting against all the nationalist tendencies, racist temptations and exclusions that the current economic and financial, climate and food crises fuel.
while ensuring that the eu does not sacrifice its values and interests (particularly in agriculture, the environment, public health and workers' rights), the prospect of such an agreement is likely to strengthen the eu's stability and economic development.
on sustainability, mr bütikofer, that issue will be part of the negotiations and it will be part of the agreements, as by the way it is in the whole new generation of agreements that we have been negotiating.
we are trying to improve this efficiency in terms of sustainable growth, employment, innovation, social inclusion and compliance but also environmental protection.
it covers five priority policy areas (trade, agriculture and fisheries, climate change and energy, security and migration) and regularly addresses the wound (for example: 'regrets the publication by the commission of two separate reports on trade in general and trade and development, which has proved counterproductive from the point of view of coherence'); the greens have also strengthened the report: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
finally, russia's accession to the wto is important for the future of eu-russia relations, particularly in the area of raw materials and energy.
and, of course, we must complete everything through a stronger economic union to really aim at sustainable economic growth with more employment and greater social cohesion.
we must have a better business climate, we must have a sense of investment, we must complete the internal market, we must have a midterm review of the 2020 strategy and we must of course also call for increased attention, and we are doing so, to a number of basic social principles which we have incorporated into a social pact.
when you add to that this week's reminder from the world bank that we are exploding the physical limits of the planet and that climate change itself carries risks to human existence, i think we need to realize that time is running out and we need to act now.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in particular, i stress the urgency of formulating rules which ensure at national and community level the safety of workers and the protection of the environment, areas not covered by this regulation.
i am pleased that the european parliament has given its consent to the ratification by the european union of the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution (...), or the 'offshore protocol'.
while this protocol alone will not solve the problem of the sustainable management of mediterranean resources, it is already a first step in this direction, which will have to be followed by others.
the importance of preserving the environment, alongside economic development, is quite clear, especially when it comes to a semi-enclosed sea like the mediterranean.
only in this way could the natural environment be preserved and businesses based not on short-term profit but on long-term development be able to operate.
a policy of sustainable governance of offshore oil and gas activities is, i believe, indispensable!
it would also have dramatic consequences for its fragile economy and ecosystems and would undermine the efforts of the mediterranean coastal member states of the union to achieve and maintain the good ecological status of their marine waters required by the marine strategy framework directive.
i also think it is important that this agreement is in line with the principle of sustainable fishing.
most recent and current responses to the crisis are based on short-term objectives to bring public finances back to a sustainable level, which is essential for the union's economy.
the union must strive to export a sustainable model of agriculture and the products derived from it.
it is therefore necessary to lay down transparent, simple, harmonised and consistent rules on the safety, type-approval and environmental protection of such vehicles which are beneficial for both undertakings and users.
i also share the view that strict limits on emissions of pollutants should be introduced.
this level of protection covers safety and environmental aspects which are now being harmonised across the eu, thus also preventing fragmentation of the internal market due to different national product standards.
although the g20 adopted a series of regulatory measures aimed at making the financial system safer and more sustainable following the financial crisis of 2007, this shadow finance, connected to the conventional banking system, is still poorly or not very well regulated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
social enterprises have a public utility, a social utility, and social and environmental effects.
i shall not repeat all that has been said, but i will perhaps mention the risk of divesting from renewable energy research and thus freezing the fight against global warming.
the commission must draw inspiration from the american experience in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past, namely the environmental cost of fracking, which is far too high, and the waste of water, which has of course already been mentioned.
all this to say that - i conclude, mr president, we are an hour late, so allow me another ten seconds - shale gas can only be a possible complement to the european energy mix, as commissioner oettinger has just mentioned.
the essential question before us is not who is influenced by which lobbyist, but is about 'what is the future of shale gas in the global context of the energy debate'.
first of all: we must decide very quickly within the european union what the long-term strategy is in the field of energy.
if we look at the long term, we have to make sure that by 2050, we have a fully renewable energy system.
and then the other commissioner, mr potočnik, comes into view, because he has to ensure - despite all the emotions in this house - that if we ever go all the way to exploiting shale gas - i have my questions about that, i am also sceptical about that - but if we do, it will be within a strict regulatory framework, which takes into account the impact on our environment and the impact on our climate.
i think that the future is energy and environmental policy when it comes to this subject.
mr president, of course shale gas is useful in reducing our dependence on foreign energy suppliers from outside the eu.
but of course it should not relieve us of our obligation to continue to work on renewable energy, and especially, commissioner, as you have said, on energy efficiency.
so even the availability of shale gas in the future should not put us to sleep and prevent us from further efforts to increase energy efficiency.
so in summary, mr president, we must go for a balanced, for a coordinated, but also for a cautious approach with clear rules of the game to be agreed at european level, and all member states must apply an environmental impact assessment to every eu project.
the commission is ready to help member states and all stakeholders to mobilise instruments and policies that can help the sector to restructure and build a sustainable future.
yes, we need better market conditions and financial incentives for the environment.
the reality is that the car giants are far too low on innovation, on people and on the environment.
mr farage has talked the whole morning about salaries and the biggest waste of money.
well, colleagues, what i think is the biggest waste of money in the european union today is the salary we are all paying to mr farage – that is the biggest waste of money!
and only in this way can we create a european budget with sufficient resources to invest in sustainable growth and jobs.
i also think it is essential that the commission makes use of all the means at its disposal to ensure that member states transpose union legislation in a timely and appropriate manner, particularly in the field of the environment, one of the areas most prone to infringements.
- the debate on energy, energy dependence, traditional energy and renewable energy is often a source of great contradiction.
in fact, the transition from conventional energy, from nuclear to renewable energy, will not be possible without transitional solutions.
interestingly, the green group in the eu parliament seems to be particularly concerned, while their party colleagues, for example in government in germany, are clearly in favour of gas as a 'transitional energy'.
energy production must be discussed objectively if we are to convince citizens to take part in shaping the energy transition.
the citizens are called upon not only to understand the democratic process but also to understand that private households, and in particular heating, are among the largest consumers of non-renewable energy.
the second problem concerns the risk of pollution of groundwater near the wells by the chemicals used.
i therefore sincerely hope, and i am sure my group shares this sentiment, that a ceasefire has indeed been agreed, thanks in part to the efforts of egypt and all those who have contributed to it, and that it will be sustainable.
that the status quo is not sustainable, and that a peaceful solution for the future of all israelis and all palestinians must be sought with all our might.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the court of auditors has identified errors in a wide range of policy areas: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the community's action plan for the environment and the environment (1994-98).
this practice is totally unacceptable and contrary to the sustainable and responsible management of our ecosystem.
let's say it straight away: a few days before the doha conference, the commitments made by the international community to limit global warming to a maximum of 2°c are far from being achieved.
the resolution stresses that to be credible, industrialised countries must not only honour their commitments if they want to help the poorest countries, but also raise the bar if they want to reduce their carbon footprint by 2020. the hopes of tomorrow will be built on the addition of ambitious measures in the field of clean technologies, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, and the promotion of green jobs.
the international community's 2°c target is the threshold beyond which, according to scientists, the climate system is likely to be overwhelmed with effects that would greatly accelerate further warming.
i particularly support the call in this report for the union to examine the security implications of climate change in its dialogue with third countries, including partners such as india, china and russia.
to put it simply, the european patent is necessary for innovation but it is certainly not sufficient, and if european companies need this better industrial protection, they also need capital, easy access to finance and a favourable tax environment to compete in the global competition we are currently experiencing.
in voting in favour of this report, i particularly emphasise the need for the commission to include the results of the negotiations between the governments of the united states and the european union, by updating the references to the eu quality labelling and certification systems introduced by directive 2009/125/ec of 21 october 2009. secondly, i would like to stress that the objectives of the improvements to be made in energy efficiency must be to achieve a high level of consumer and environmental protection.
it is smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
if the internet economy is considered as a sector, internet-related consumption and spending is currently higher than in the agriculture or energy sectors.
the aim is to ensure the safety and therefore the continuity of maritime trade, which is an essential means of international trade, and to protect the environment.
recognising the scale of the environmental damage caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was set up to address this reality.
the agency contributes to maritime safety and security and to the prevention of pollution.
it also has to prevent and deal with environmental disasters such as oil spills.
it will use the cleanseanet information system to monitor the impact of pollution from offshore drilling platforms and to monitor greenhouse gas emissions from ships.
i voted in favour of this report so that the maritime safety agency can have greater capacity to predict and combat environmental disasters using the clearseanet information system, which monitors the impact of pollution caused by offshore drilling rigs.
it prevents farmers from growing their own seeds, which makes them dependent and, moreover, is harmful to biodiversity.
moreover, the liberalization process, which was very important to me, is taking place in full compliance with the fundamental international conventions on labour law and the environment.
the controversial debates which preceded the vote were not necessary, since the agreement, in addition to enshrining political dialogue, cooperation and free trade between the two signatory parties, contains clauses on human rights and on social and environmental standards which are dear to us.
in peru, it is estimated that there are no less than 250 pending environmental conflicts, mainly related to mining.
this agreement will not contribute to sustainable development in the two south american countries, it will not eradicate poverty.
i think that the work - and i would like to thank the rapporteurs in general - is good in this respect, because it essentially takes account of the respect of many agreements reached with local residents under regional or national legislation and environmental legislation, and i do not think that this leads to different situations in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no budgetary union without fiscal union, without abandoning the dogma of fiscal competitiveness, which in reality undermines the sustainability of public finances.
the fundamental balance that must be found to build economic and monetary union in a sustainable way was still there.
and on the further democratization of the eu, perhaps the most essential component for building a sustainable monetary union, we can only spew out vague ideas.
- noise pollution is an important issue in transport, but in aviation in particular it is a matter of local and regional responsibility.
the proposal takes into account the comfort of citizens by updating existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports in the international framework of the icao's balanced approach to noise management.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i remain convinced that the union and its member states have a role to play in coordinating policies to ensure that the steel industry, which is sustainable and competitive, is able to adapt to the conditions prevailing in the changing european and non-european markets.
it is equally important to apply the polluter pays principle; and the ecological balance must be restored or even improved, as required by directive 2004/35 on environmental liability.