if that had been the outcome of durban, would the fight against climate change then have been better off or would it not have been better off?
that is of course precisely why, over the past 18 months or two years, the commission has come up with a communication on how to move our targets, with our low-carbon roadmap and the energy roadmap; has proposed an energy efficiency directive; has come up with substantial multiannual financial framework proposals with a substantial climate, environment, energy-efficiency and resource-efficiency component; has come up with a proposal on energy taxation; and has come up, as requested, with tasks and values.
it is about how we, as a region and as an economy, will become more competitive through energy efficiency, resource efficiency and using intelligent climate and environment policies as a driver for innovation.
the 17th un climate change conference ended with the adoption of an agreement providing for a roadmap to combat climate change by 2015, with entry into force in 2020, and the extension of the kyoto protocol, the only legally binding framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the united states has always been skeptical about climate change, and india is one of the emerging powers that does not recognize its own involvement in the current climate situation and considers it to be the responsibility of formerly industrialized countries.
i would first of all like to congratulate the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr florenz, and the shadows and their teams for the success achieved in the negotiations on the directive on waste electric and electronic equipment.
parliament and the commission have been standing side by side in this debate, fighting for ambitious collection targets for e-waste to increase resource efficiency, fighting for a clear reduction of administrative burdens and fighting to give the member states’ enforcement authorities an effective tool against illegal exports.
but this directive clearly puts a new momentum and new dynamic into management of e-waste and it deserves our support.
with 500 million citizens in the european union, that means that member states are obliged to collect around two million tonnes of e-waste out of 10 million tonnes of e-waste we generate every year.
the new directive will oblige the member states to collect the equivalent of at least 85% of e-waste generated, so by 2020, when we estimate that europeans will be throwing away 12 million tonnes a year, we should be collecting at least 10 million tonnes of weee.
ten million tonnes including lead, pvc, chromium, mercury and cadmium that will then be treated in an environmentally sound manner; 10 million tonnes including gold, copper, silver and platinum and other valuable raw materials that can be pumped back into the production cycle, reducing production costs and also emissions.
proper treatment is crucial to ensure that harm to the environment and human health is prevented.
we are highly concerned at the environmental and human health cost of smash-and-burn methods used in some third countries.
legal and legitimate exports of used equipment declared to be for refurbishment have in the past been abused to cover up illegal exports of what was in fact treated as waste and was in quite poor condition.
the commission will therefore continue to work in international forums to prevent legal channels for exports of used equipment being abused for illegal waste shipments.
used electric and electronic equipment is the fastest-growing waste stream and one that contains valuable materials and rare metals worth recycling into new products.
nowhere is it more clear that waste really is a resource and therefore crucial in achieving a resource-efficient, competitive economy.
it is not only a question of environmental preservation; it is also one of the central questions of the competitiveness of european industry in the future.
after long and difficult negotiations between the council of the european union and the european parliament delegation, an agreement was reached on the new directive on electronic and electrical waste.
with the new, better directive, we are setting the stage for better, higher quality recycling of electronic and electrical waste.
as you know, only 30% of this waste is treated to the standards of the directive.
the new directive will create the conditions for the creation of a new common european market for the collection and treatment of electronic and electrical waste.
six years after the entry into force of the directive, 2018, all electronic and electrical waste will fall within the scope of this directive.
a new, more ambitious collection target will come into effect after 2019, when we will collect 65% of all electronic and electrical waste from appliances placed on the market.
almost without exception, our society prefers to throw away all waste, including those containing valuable rare materials that our industry is finding increasingly difficult to procure.
only one third of electronic and electrical waste is recycled as required, the rest goes to landfill or illegal export to third countries.
the new directive is an important step towards more complete recycling, as it sets ambitious targets: 85% of the e-waste generated (or 65% of the electronic equipment placed on the market) must be collected in an organised way by the end of the decade.
requirements are introduced for the development of standards for the collection, treatment, recovery, recycling and re-use of such waste, in order to establish uniform high technological standards in the member states.
the full entry into force of the new directive is expected after a six-year transition period, but then all e-waste will in principle fall within its scope, eliminating both potential environmental threats and the waste of a true and rare treasure.
i also share the view that a more comprehensive analysis of the functioning of markets and competition is needed in key sectors such as energy, telecommunications, transport and raw materials, which have a major impact on the economy as a whole.
i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there can be no sustainable economic performance without a number of conditions: an efficient single market, a major effort in innovation and research, and social cohesion.
as part of the improvement of the legal environment, we have launched a study to analyse the current situation of mutual societies in europe.
if we really want to help our neighbours in the present economic climate, we should, of course, be prepared to make concessions too.
in order to offer european farmers guarantees, such as the effective implementation of the entry price system and quota restrictions for sensitive moroccan products, there is of course a need for better application of the conventions of the international labour organisation and equivalent measures between the european union and morocco on the environment and water management, as well as phytosanitary rules.
with resources constrained by the crisis, it is necessary to focus our efforts on policies that are most conducive to growth and sustainable development, and these should be widely reflected in the 2012 annual growth survey.
the site targeting central and eastern europeans crosses the boundaries of free speech, violates civil rights and creates an environment of xenophobia.
mr president, there is no doubt that we need a clearer vision for our economy in a few decades' time, following the imposed scenario of decarbonising industrial activity and energy.
in fact, we've only focused on carbon dioxide, and the other greenhouse gases have not been addressed to the extent that they should be, even though they don't cost as much to the economy and to people to limit.
i share the serious concern that the imposition of new, even higher targets both by 2020 and beyond, for reducing emissions or changing the carbon trading scheme, introduces legislative uncertainty and sends a bad signal to business investment planning.
there is no need for binding targets for emissions after 15-20-30 years, which will undergo significant changes in that period, as life teaches us.
achieving full decarbonisation of energy will not be possible with renewable energy alone.
all low-carbon energy technologies, including nuclear and clean coal technologies, will have their contribution, especially outside the eu.
mr president, europe, and especially south-eastern europe, needs a democratic serbia and the european union must work towards a political environment that supports the process of democratic reforms in serbia so that the country can finally break with communism, post-communism and especially the nationalism inherited from the former yugoslavia.
in addition to these factors, europe also faces important external challenges, such as climate change, energy issues and democratic changes in neighbouring countries.
− mr president, let me deal with two issues which are of paramount importance for the work of the eib and for our joint work to enhance sustainable growth and employment through investment.
parliament will, i trust, treat this file as a matter of the highest priority and we hope negotiations will start in april in time for its entry into force in june; we do not want to waste any more time but to get action moving in this very important field.
we must make this known among our citizens in the european union because this is something we can bring into place when it goes in favour of job creation in europe, change in the environmental situation in europe, climate action, and when it comes to boosting innovation, growth and employment.
so in addition to what i have said about energy and energy efficiency, new energies in the fields of smes, innovation might be a very important additional pillar.
last but not least, the question of climate change was mentioned in the debate.
i welcome the eib’s action on climate change and call on it to refrain from funding certain types of projects which have devastating environmental and social impacts.
furthermore, i call for full alignment of the bank’s operations with the eu objectives for a swift transition to a low carbon economy.
i am pleased that you yourself have shown the importance of the european union's involvement in regional cooperation, not only in the fields of energy, environment and transport, but also in those of human contacts - tourism, culture, education.
the country is emerging as a strong ally with a growing strategic importance, not only in terms of energy but also in terms of foreign policy and security.
the european union and azerbaijan have made significant progress in energy cooperation, with azerbaijan being one of the union's main partners in ensuring europe's energy security.
technical assistance is needed to help azerbaijan diversify its economy and bring the country in line with the european union's climate change objectives.
this will allow azerbaijan and armenia at the end of a long-term reform process to gain access to the european internal market, which will help boost their exports, increase investment and contribute to their sustainable growth.
the eu needs to take a cautious approach and focus its efforts on reducing administrative burdens and improving the business environment.
mr president, the existing taxation of energy products according to consumption volumes is not in line with the eu's long-term energy objectives.
the introduction of two tax components for carbon dioxide and fuel energy content is a step in the right direction towards reducing carbon emissions, reducing fuel consumption and making the most efficient use of fuel.
but why, at a time of economic crisis, when fuel prices are rising, does the commission dare to propose an increase in taxes on energy products?
why did we target diesel, where we've invested the most resources and innovation to do it with the lowest emissions and the most efficient engines?
that is why, with many colleagues, we are opposed to the fact that at this very moment another blow is being dealt to the economy, to its competitiveness, to the incomes of citizens by unnecessary, harmful, artificial increases in the taxation of energy products, especially diesel fuel.
i'm all for simplifying the economic environment and creating more transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kiil-nielsen, and the fictitious rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done on this report, which deals with the role that women can play in combating climate change and which shows the intrinsic link between gender equality and environmental protection.
today more than ever, we must face the fact that things will not improve if we exclude women - that is, more than 50% of the world's population - from political, economic, commercial and environmental decisions.
women are key actors in development and environmental protection, not only because they are often the most affected by the consequences of environmental policies, but also because they are often the most knowledgeable about good practice.
thus, it is essential to recognise the quality of women as effective agents of change when it comes to environmental protection and management.
i therefore believe that environmental protection requires women to have access to courses on this subject.
in addition, we need to promote women in decision-making positions to ensure a greater diversity of green solutions, which would contribute to better management of environmental problems while promoting gender equality.
in addition, we must emphasise the importance of gender equality and the marginalisation of women in the context of sustainable development.
full participation of women in environmental protection and management can contribute to the achievement of the mdgs and to responding to the challenges of climate change.
it's a virtuous circle where women become actors in environmental protection and sustainable development gives women greater access to material, economic and natural resources.
the commission and the member states will strengthen the added value of domestic and external action tools and development policies and strategies if the links between the promotion of women's rights, gender equality, economic growth, sustainable development and environmental protection are finally strengthened.
i very much welcome this report calling for a greater role for women in tackling climate change.
i believe the integration of gender issues in climate change policies would make such policies more effective, efficient and fair.
statistics show that women are disproportionately affected by climate change, notably as victims of climate- and resource-related wars, natural disasters and in terms of infectious diseases, malnutrition and gender-based violence.
we have to take into account this issue within europe’s climate diplomacy and ensure that climate change and disaster-reduction measures are gender responsive.
gender mainstreaming would allow the mitigation of gender-related discrimination and use women’s potential to understand better the gender aspect of climate change in order to develop informed and responsive adaptation strategies.
while recognising that gender is an important factor in combating climate change, the eu’s first priority should be achieving a legally-binding international climate change commitment.
for this reason it is crucial for the eu primarily to address the climate change issue at global level and convince international partners to set aside differences in order to reach a sustainable, credible and long-lasting agreement.
– the 6th environment action programme is the first to be adopted in co-decision, which not only reflects its legitimacy but also the importance given to the environment action programmes over the past 40 years.
in fact, these programmes have managed to provide an efficient framework for the protection and promotion of a healthy environment with a constant deepening and reinforcement of environmental policies.
this is why we urge the european commission to present the proposal for a 7th eap in such a way as to ensure continuity of the eu environmental framework policy and avoid any gaps which might discredit our political will.
i believe the persistence of the eaps represents a major element with which to build a strong political message from the eu institutions on the one hand and a firm position on the protection of the environment, on which real progress has still to be achieved, on the other.
i therefore ask the commission and the member states to engage with the people of mali and with the various international organisations so that the whole sahel region knows that the european union will do everything possible to guarantee fundamental rights, including the right to live in a peaceful environment.
− i voted in favour of the report on our life insurance, our natural capital: an eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 by gerben-jan gerbrandy, because it is a step forward towards protecting this diversity in europe and promoting the sectors that contribute to it.
as the ep's report on bee health and the challenges facing the beekeeping sector says, it is of great importance for the conservation of biodiversity.
at the same time, bulgarian beekeeping, as in other countries in europe, is facing the problem of loss of bee colonies, a fact that threatens biodiversity in europe.
so we have to give the sector a chance, because unlike the environmental measures the commission is discussing, which we are going to impose on farmers for a greener cap, the only thing we have to do for the beekeepers is to help them just do their job.
finally, i would like to highlight some elements which i believe are very important for this trade policy with the region: the effort to combat child labour and respect for international labour law; the promotion of information and communication technology (ict) development niches which, in turn, would represent a support for young people - it is becoming increasingly clear that young people are the main users of these technologies, and this would serve to combat youth unemployment in the region; it should be remembered that the population of these countries between the ages of 10 and 19 represents 20%, while in the european union it represents only 11%; and last but not least, the promotion of sustainable rural development which allows to offer quality products while meeting traceability criteria and maintaining a balanced trade balance.
i therefore believe that trade agreements should be backed up by strengthened human rights clauses, improved monitoring and enforcement mechanisms and an ambitious sustainable development chapter.
first, i want to congratulate rapporteur christofer fjellner for his excellent work and energy during the whole procedure.
we are also aware that other points in the negotiations might be problematic, notably with regard to trade, preferential markets or energy and environment, for example.
should we be ashamed because of the opportunities that we provide for political exchange with prime minister azarov, for example, or the prosecutors, and all the other opportunities that you and members of your group have also used, or because of efforts to find a sustainable solution in ukraine or maybe because of the attempts to transform a main political player in ukraine?
the european project for society proposes a vision where all men and women, judges of their rights, are free from any form of violence or discrimination and can exploit their full human potential in an environment of equality.
it's the only way to ensure sustainable growth.
sustainable development can only be achieved by creating an alternative innovative agenda that focuses on using the resources we already have in the most efficient way.
the solution is to use what we have efficiently, so i welcome the texts on recycling waste as an unused resource of our own, which in many countries is simply thrown in landfills and money is poured into foreign economies to supply the same materials.
resource efficiency is a key issue for sustainable development in the eu.
to provide for the country’s political association and economic integration with the european union, azerbaijan needs to make significant further efforts to meet the action plan commitments in the field of deep and sustainable democracy, including electoral processes, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the independence of the judicial system.
the media environment is curtailed by self-imposed censorship, and harassment of journalists is frequent.
but if the european union waits now, if it waits then and waits again and waits again and waits, i think we're going to waste one of the greatest opportunities in our trade policy.
thirdly, that this regulation is subject to very strict requirements relating to the conditions for achieving international human rights and sustainable development standards.
morover, thanks to a sustainable growth, the continent is only moderately affected by the financial, economic and social crisis and has succeeded significant progresses in terms of democracy.
but we have to be absolutely clear that neither the digital agenda goals nor new developments like cloud computing can be developed without having a trustworthy and resilient internet environment.
− i voted for the report by edith herzog, for greater consistency and coherence in the eu's external relations in the field of energy, for strategic and political coordination between member states in negotiations with powerful third-country energy suppliers.
i support the union's strong and unified voice in external energy relations, which allows the interests of european consumers and the competitiveness of our economy to be protected.
a well-connected internal market is needed that can stand together against external pressure, against attempts to use energy supply and prices as a tool for political pressure.
diversification of supply means better energy security, but only if it is accompanied by competition between supply sources, including an increase in the share of liquefied gas.
i welcome the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy and the role of the commission's opinions on these agreements, which will ensure equal compliance with european internal energy market legislation.
regional cooperation is essential, too, to tackle a number of the problems of the great lakes region, including the illegal exploitation of natural resources – conflict minerals – and the provision of improved energy supplies for all.
but there will be no sustainable peace without the rule of law and the application of justice.
in conclusion, i want to reiterate that the eu is committed for the long term to supporting the drc and the great lakes region to escape the conflicts of the past and build a sustainable, more prosperous and peaceful future.
overall, we can be pleased that this new and improved directive reinforces some important proposals relating to the protection of health and the environment, transparency of information and the rights of european citizens to access information.
i should also mention the input from other committees – the committees on internal market and consumer protection (imco) and on industry, research and energy (itre).
my big dream is to look from now on into the future and see the new super-efficient technology that can be powered by renewable energy sources, namely magnetic levitation technology, and to look into a future where along the north, east, west and south axes, european citizens will be able to travel safely by rail transport, highly efficient, highly environmentally friendly and at the speed that airplanes offer.
– as water is undeniably our most valuable resource, insuring the protection of water ecosystems is the most important environmental challenge of our time.
water plays a crucial part in regulating the earth climate, it insures food safety and security, and it provides a huge amount of wealth to our economies, societies and cultures.
but as the world is slowly becoming aware that our current ways of life are not sustainable, it also realises this resource is critically at risk.
much often, the threat is pollution for european waters versus scarcity in third countries which is another reason why the eu should set the example by not taking its water for granted.
economic growth can and needs to be decoupled from any type of environmental harm to water.
of course, the legislation that works in the real world also applies to the online environment.
the creation of such a stable business environment through the new eu-russia cooperation and partnership agreement will help to secure further additional concessions.
they show how stable and sustainable the democracy is and they show the maturity of the political system.
empowering women and preserving their rights is indeed both an intrinsic sustainable development goal and a means to achieve the green economy we aim for.
the importance of gender equality and women’s empowerment is essential in key areas, such as food security and nutrition, sustainable agriculture, water and sanitation, energy and education.
these elements are now reaffirmed as central to sustainable development and the outcome document when laying down our common vision and our renewed political commitment.
indeed, as our resources are becoming more and more scarce and there are doubts about the sustainability of our way of life, the european regulator needs to question and correct one of the ongoing system’s most striking deficiencies: the inequality between women and men on both the economical and environmental level.
it appears nowadays that, on the one hand, women pollute less than men for various reasons, such as the fact they eat less meat, they drive less, and they consume less because their salaries are lower and because they have less time for leisure and energy-consuming activities.
in writing mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy efficiency directive is one of the most important pieces of eu legislation, expected to create more than a million jobs in the member states and save tens of billions of euros in energy supplies.
energy efficiency, widely recognised as the cheapest alternative to solving the union's energy problems, is finally entering european legislation with binding measures and targets, with a first reading consensus achieved in just one year.
i welcome the compromises reached for more flexibility for member states in implementing measures and their financing, thus ensuring that the best solutions are found, including in crisis conditions, to achieve energy saving objectives.
an important element is the energy efficiency requirements in public procurement.
but here we have to be careful, because there is a potential danger that we will pay for the most expensive energy efficiency solutions if we downplay the final price criterion of public procurement.
a real success for energy efficiency will be a change in people's behaviour and attitudes towards wasteful energy use.
i also believe – and have always believed – that, in this increasingly challenging economic environment, it makes even more sense for member states to work together.
when we look at all the different geographical areas of the world, we also have to remember that many of the challenges of the world are what we call horizontal – the potential for crisis and conflict because of energy or climate change or water are very real.
we exist to serve our citizens, to help them be more secure, more able to pursue the lives they want, to give them the right environment and hopefully prosperity and to help others obtain what we have.
if our decisions are correct, we will have allies in the fishermen, on whom the sustainable fisheries and the ecological balance of the seas depend to a large extent.
i therefore believe that a review of the mechanisms for managing sugar production is necessary, a balanced approach to combining the three production models in a competitive environment.
it is a necessary step on the road to economic recovery and sustainable growth.
similarly, companies that pursue so-called 'social' objectives are important reservoirs of this sustainable growth we need.
the pursuit of social, ethical and environmental objectives can generate positive externalities for a country, but also help to revitalize some of our regions.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the compromise reached after the trilogues on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements on energy supplies with third countries.
i regard this hard-won agreement as the first legislative step towards building a common eu external energy policy.
the compromise is not in line with the commission's proposal and the ep's expectations, but it does allow for pan-european coordination in energy relations with third countries to comply with european legislation.
this creates legal predictability and stability for investors and the operation of energy infrastructures built with the participation of third parties.
there is a growing consensus that a common eu agreement on energy supplies from third countries is the ideal solution for security of energy supply, reducing market fragmentation, increasing competition and fair energy prices.
a more transparent and coherent eu energy supply policy also means a stronger position for european consumers.
if we have opted for greening the cap with new environmental conditions, why should the same requirements not apply to fishermen, when we know the critical situation of ocean biomass?
the fisheries reform text proposed several months ago by the european commissioner for maritime affairs and fisheries, maria damanaki, seeks to "promote sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture".
this report highlights the importance of building sustainable partnerships based on equality, human rights, gender equality and respect for the environment.
for me, to achieve the two conditions above, namely to produce more quality and organic products, we need to first think about the types of agriculture that prevent biodiversity loss, such as the beekeeping sector.
i therefore vote in favour of this report in support of the rapporteur's view that it is now time to define more clearly a promotion policy which serves to encourage and compensate for the production of specific products included in quality schemes and agricultural practices which protect biodiversity.
shale gas is undeniably an energy resource, and the big question here is whether this resource can be extracted and used in a sustainable way.
if new technologies are developed, if they are proven to be absolutely safe, then we should not deny any energy resource.
shale gas production may contribute to europe's energy security, but it will not solve europe's energy problems.
the potential economic and industrial benefits of shale gas should be assessed together with the expected costs and risks to human health and the environment in both the short and long term.
europe needs an objective scientific debate on the economic, environmental and social potential of shale gas development on the continent.
we are talking about fracking technology which has proved to have negative environmental and health effects, about which a large number of citizens have legitimate concerns and have even referred their claims to the committee on petitions.
the commissioner for the environment has stated in the press that there are more risks in the extraction of shale gas than conventional natural gas.
we should ensure that the highest level of health and environmental protection remains our primary principle, over potential economic and strategic interests which still have to be demonstrated.
shale gas is a reality that will continue to change not only the energy but also the economic future of the world.
low energy prices are a powerful factor in improving the competitiveness of any economy, and in the context of global competition for markets, no country can underestimate this possibility.
let's review our legislation and take all the measures to protect the soil, drinking water, environment and health.
who is making commitments to fight climate change?
i voted for the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction activities.
with this report, the european parliament is calling for a number of regulations for the shale gas energy industry.
the most important of these, championed by the socialist and democratic group, are: no eu funding for research and innovation in this area, mandatory environmental impact assessment, the consideration of fracking liquids as hazardous waste and also a ban on fracking in drinking water areas.
), the use of shale gas results in the lowest carbon emissions.
today we have shown our commitment to ensuring the highest possible environmental protection standards for the use of hydraulic fracturing in the eu.
at the same time, we reject any possibility of imposing a europe-wide moratorium on shale gas exploration and production, which would be contrary both to the lisbon treaty and to eu energy policy.
there is no more sensible approach than the one just voted: to leave the decision on extraction and exploration in the hands of individual countries, and to make environmental standards as high as possible and at european level.
however, we cannot afford to dismiss lightly the potential benefits of shale gas extraction in europe for the eu economy and reindustrialisation in a competitive way to address the issue of the volatility of renewable energy.
for some member states, shale gas is almost the only option for achieving energy security and independence, which is a powerful political incentive for its public acceptability.
- i think that the report proposed by the committee on industry, research and energy on the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil goes too far and for the most part seeks to make arguments in favour of shale gas and oil extraction.
and although the ep did not allow shale gas to be linked to the fight against climate change, with which the socialist and democratic group won an important victory, the final result did not allow me to follow my group and i did not support this report, but voted "abstention".
if the eu is a pioneer in pointing out climate change as a threat and understanding the urgency for climate mitigation, we also acknowledge the need for all parties to adopt ambitious and sufficient targets for the ghg reduction, and to convince the big polluters that we face an issue which needs to be addressed at international level through strong commitments.
the eu’s low carbon roadmap and the promotion of renewables and energy efficiency show an effective political will at eu level.
i am proud to be on the side of those who do not live in blindness but i know that the actions we undertake against climate change will be worthless without international awareness and equal participation in our efforts.
this will allow the accession countries sufficient time to develop solid and sustainable track records.
but let's not be completely self-serving, but let's refresh that investment, for example through innovative financial instruments to better concentrate funds, with the help and cooperation of our partners in the most visible and useful projects in the implementation of sustainable public policies.
a concrete example is the question of what is the potential impact of climate change, natural disasters and military crises on european security and how should the union be prepared to respond?
however, for the eu to have a sustainable agriculture, a well-identified policy on humane treatment is needed.
actions by iarc and the european union can help to find sustainable solutions.