global solutions are necessary for international security, political, economic, monetary and ecological stability, as well as for access to raw materials and rare earths.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
this partnership will promote democratic institutions, enhanced energy security and social and economic reform.
mr president, climate change is causing environmental and humanitarian crises.
we are referring specifically to women because they constitute 85% of the victims of natural disasters caused by climate change and 75% of the environmental refugees.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this requires specific research and gender expertise to develop sound strategies for preventing and managing natural disaster risks, to manage environmental migration properly and to ensure adequate funding from funds and instruments directly linked to climate.
my view is that the european union must integrate the gender dimension into targeted climate policies in order to provide solutions.
however, just a few weeks before the republic of cyprus takes over the presidency of the european council, the turkish occupation continues to provoke cyprus, dynamiting the climate in our wider geostrategic area.
we therefore call on turkey to implement comprehensive reforms, to fulfil the copenhagen criteria for the sake of its own modernisation and to establish a climate of mutual understanding and respect with all eu member states, thus making it possible to exchange best practices on gender equality with all of those states for the benefit of its own female citizens.
the economy and sustainable development must serve society.
the question is therefore to reconcile the approach to budgetary discipline, because yes, it is important to reduce waste and to manage our public finances, with the approach to implementing a strong growth strategy and creating new jobs in europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely in this context of the quest for a better europe that the cyprus presidency has set four main priorities: the first priority: a more efficient and sustainable europe.
energy policy is of particular importance, as are the facilitation of 'connecting europe' and the trans-european transport, telecommunications and energy networks, which will contribute to the development of competitiveness and further integration of the european union.
sustainable development will be an important topic during the cyprus presidency, in view of the need for an integrated approach to transport, climate change, environment and energy policies.
with innovative and ground-breaking policies that put people and their reasonable needs at the centre, we can achieve sustainable economic growth with social cohesion.
the commission shares the objectives of the presidency aimed at a stronger, more competitive europe, based on sustainable growth, solidarity and social inclusion, a europe which is a major international partner on the global stage as well as in its neighbourhood.
mr president of the republic of cyprus, you have outlined the priorities of your presidency: the multiannual financial framework, common asylum, the promotion of the capital of the agricultural policy, the single shipping policy, energy, etc.
its purpose is to create, through the association agreements and cooperation between partners, an environment of trust, détente and understanding within which the parties to a dispute can try to resolve their differences themselves.
the aim should be to create quality and sustainable jobs, reduce the economic dependency ratio in order to maintain a large workforce, and keep a balance between flexibility and security in the labour market.
it is beneficial for the eu to have important partnerships, especially within areas of security, external affairs and energy policy, as long as there is mutual respect, fulfilment of obligations and commitments, full respect of human rights and dedicated orientation towards common european values.