while the cost of purchasing agricultural inputs such as energy, machinery, feedstuffs, synthetic fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, or water is rising sharply, farmers' profits are stagnating.
agriculture uses a lot of energy.
farmers are seeking maximum energy savings by insulating agricultural facilities, using alternative energy sources, etc.
in view of the strategic position of agriculture for europe, the production of safe food, the provision of an independent livelihood for the european population, i ask the commission and the council to consider options for setting maximum energy prices for primary agricultural production.
the same is true for the gmes project, which monitors climate change and security threats.
both projects have practical applications in a number of areas, such as agriculture, transportation, environmental protection and, of course, national security.
food waste, poor health of the population, lack of mental capacity - these are just some of the manifestations of the crisis in the world today.
the elimination of food surpluses, on the one hand, the pursuit of at least minor socially desirable measures such as school-based programmes for the consumption of fruit and milk products, and, on the other, the possibility of using - albeit not very rationally - certain plant species for the production of energy resources, show that even a community as advanced as the european union does not currently have a recipe for solving this serious problem.
as this is an unrealistic demand, we support at least the declaration of 2013 as the european year against food waste.
i believe that the key to ending this waste is to set specific targets and to make food waste collection mandatory in households and catering establishments.
this will require sufficient data on the amount of waste generated in each member state to enable effective statistical comparisons to be carried out.
according to a study published by the commission, food waste will increase by 40% by 2020 if effective action is not taken.
the fact that more than a third of what we grow is not consumed is not only a problem from an ethical point of view but also from an environmental point of view.
each ton of food waste represents the equivalent of 4.5 tons of co2, wasteful use of water, energy and wasteful use of agricultural land.
if we planted trees everywhere that currently produces crops that will never be consumed, we would, in theory, absorb 100 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels.
on 19 january 2012, the european parliament's plenary adopted a recommendation for the second reading on the adoption of the draft directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
in this context, i consider it important that this report analyses the structures and markets preceding agricultural production and proposes policy options that would help farmers reduce input costs, take into account increasing their independence and income, and thus enable a shift towards a more efficient and sustainable use of production resources.
the fight against food waste must become a priority on the eu's political agenda.
the commission, the council and the member states should develop concrete strategies and measures to reduce food waste in the entire supply chain by half by 2025, to improve the efficiency of the sector and to raise public awareness of this issue, many aspects of which are still poorly understood.
it is essential that citizens are informed not only about the causes and consequences of food waste but also about ways to prevent it.
a culture of sustainability and solidarity between scientists and other citizens should be fostered, thereby encouraging more exemplary action.
experience has shown that spontaneous initiatives by voluntary or professional associations to raise awareness and to give substance to a culture against food waste have had considerable success where they have been implemented.
food waste is a serious global problem.
in industrialized countries, waste is mainly generated during distribution and consumption, due to overproduction of food.
most of this food ends up in the mixed waste, and humanity is creating millions of tons of mixed waste that has no place left.
the solution is to sort waste and biologically dispose of food.
it certainly does not help our relations to improve, and our interconnectedness, especially economic and energy, is enduring.
the committee on development understood that it was precisely environmental cooperation, regional cooperation and the introduction of systems to reduce social inequalities (point 1 of the committee's opinion refers to 'effective tax systems and social protection systems') that would mark a shift away from today's neoliberal capitalism towards something else.
mr president, i recently took part in a debate on the energy policy of the european union and the united states.
it is a move towards new forms of alternative energy, such as genetic manipulation of bacteria, which is being investigated in the united states to produce diesel directly.
- over the last ten years, financial assistance for access to energy for the poor has been modest.
the ec aid fund, the third largest in the world, has contributed a modest amount to the poor's access to energy.
bilateral cooperation and energy assistance provided by eu countries are primarily geared towards economic growth and environmental objectives rather than access to energy for the poor.
climate change-related financial mechanisms have also contributed very little to the poor's access to energy so far.
the gap in financing for universal access to energy is substantial.
the iea estimates that the investment required to provide universal access to energy by 2030 is usd 756 billion, or usd 36 billion per year.
in order to ensure the sustainable development of milk production and to guarantee producers adequate nutrition, it is necessary to take action at union level to ensure a fairer distribution of profits in the supply chain.
i welcomed the idea of establishing a european earth monitoring programme (gmes) as the right response of the european union to the ever-increasing need for accurate and reliable environmental data, especially in the context of climate change, population migration and scarcity of resources and food.
it should be the most technically advanced environmental monitoring programme in the world, helping to guarantee greater security for european citizens and a better humanitarian aid system, contributing to the eu's sustainable development and, last but not least, fostering innovation.
in view of the events in tunisia, egypt, libya and syria, it is necessary to stress that the liberalisation agreements that have been put in place so far have not achieved the stated objectives and that, therefore, policies that favour the economic interests of influential actors cannot continue without assessing the social impact on the population and the damage caused to the environment and the climate.
the report has particularly drastic negative consequences for european and north african agriculture and fisheries, as it promotes industrial agriculture at the expense of sustainable agriculture.
for north africa, the proposed agreement is harmful, particularly in terms of environmental protection.
all stakeholders involved in the cultivation and processing of cocoa beans and cocoa products, in particular governments, industry worldwide, cocoa producers, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and consumers, must fulfil their obligations to combat all forms of child labour and trafficking, exchange expertise and cooperate to create a sustainable cocoa supply chain free of child labour.
the commission should also ensure that all trade agreements contain effective provisions on poverty reduction and promotion of decent work and safe working conditions, as well as legally binding clauses on internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards and on the monitoring of their observance, together with measures to be applied in the event of their breach.
transport is important, as is energy, but for us the area of human rights, civic rights, the rule of law and democracy is also important because, without that, no society can develop.
yes, he mentioned that the european union emits about 12% of emissions, and i've long argued that without global cooperation, our efforts are ultimately close to zero.
i agree with the need to increase the efficiency of energy systems.
the secondary effect will then be to reduce the environmental burden and co2 emissions.
the development of individual member states with a right to a national energy mix, including the role of nuclear energy, must also be taken into account.
the fact that the eu has overtaken both china and india in the production of pv and wind energy sources requires further explanation.
the emphasis on central heating in cities is interesting and realistic, reducing the amount of co2 emissions by 1.74 per cent per year is certainly a very bold plan.
the reduction of co2 emissions by 2050 to a maximum of 20% of 1990 levels and the linear interpolation of the incremental targets can be seen as a political declaration and goodwill.
on the contrary, the emphasis on ensuring priority for food and feed production through the energy use of biomass is correct.
the proposal to allocate 20% of the european regional development fund to investments in energy saving, the development and deployment of low-carbon technologies and the promotion of innovation is provoking questions.
mr president, you know that i am often perceived in this house as a critic of existing environmental policies, but on the water issue i strongly and strongly support all my speakers.
water consumption in agriculture, industry and supply puts such pressure on water resources that demand for water already exceeds local availability in many parts of the eu the situation is also worsening as a result of climate change and human activities in the region.
the growth in the consumption of packaged beverages is also creating plastic waste that threatens the environment and our own food chain.
the review of existing eu water legislation is primarily about responding to new risks and ensuring an organic link between sectoral legislation to protect key environmental elements such as: water: the 6th world water forum in marseille is an opportunity to launch a broad public debate on the truly sustainable use of water resources.
the report on the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 is well-intentioned, but contains some unintended or unrealistic targets and challenges.
for example, i do not agree with the idea expressed that 30% of the environmental component of cap direct payments should be used for an eu-wide incentive scheme aimed at developing carbon storage in soil.
in the context of the low-carbon vision, i do not consider the challenge to commit the eu to the complete elimination of co2 emissions from the energy sector by 2050 to be realistic.
in addition to reducing co2 emissions, other objectives such as maintaining and enhancing the competitiveness of industry and the eu's energy security based on maximum independence from energy supplies from third countries need to be taken into account.
in this context, i would point out that the current 20% renewable energy target is based on the contribution of nuclear energy to the energy mix in a number of member states, whereas the 2011 world energy outlook prepared by the international energy agency includes a scenario based on a lower nuclear energy mix.
the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 is intended to help create a framework for new legislative acts that will co-determine the nature of investments.
the system of co2 reduction allowances is proving to be inadequate, as their surplus has reduced the price and they can no longer fulfil their function for investments in a low-carbon and sustainable economy.
in addition, emissions increased by a further 6% in 2010. global producers like china and india are already preparing for a massive shift to sustainable green technologies.
if europe is to remain competitive, it should aim to reduce co2 as quickly and efficiently as possible and promote technologies and processes that use energy and resources much more efficiently.
the commission and the studies i looked for confirm that no economic or energy savings are being made in europe by changing time.
mr president, as the s&d group's shadow rapporteur, i particularly welcome the european investment bank's extensive support for the so-called convergence regions, which accounted for almost 41% of total eib lending in the european union, and the fact that almost 30% of eib lending in 2010 went to projects directly contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
i think the approach the commissioner mentioned – supporting some of the sector policies such as transport, tourism, energy, the environment – is the right one.
there are concepts such as building a black sea highway and linking ports in order to increase trust among the nations alongside the black sea and, of course, to increase tourism, energy security and environmental protection.
our task is to create an environment and a legislative framework for business, not to burden member states, businesses and workers with unnecessary legislation.
mr president, the directive before us is an important part of a very important debate on the energy policy of the european union.
unfortunately, the proposal presented again brings strong administrative intervention in the energy sector.
the result is often dramatic, unbearable increases in the price of energy for businesses and citizens, and governments' efforts to curb this fiscally dangerous development.
while the current directive 2003/96/ec on the taxation of energy products and electricity sets out rules on taxable products, exemptions, minimum tax rates for fuels and electricity according to the amount of energy consumed, the new proposal prioritises linking energy policy with the objectives of a low-carbon economy.
the commission proposes to divide energy taxation into two parts.
one of them is to be a co2 tax (eur 20 per tonne of co2) and the other a payment according to the energy content of the product.
i accept the arguments for better use of energy resources and for greater use of less polluting energy.
however, i am concerned, as is the rapporteur, about the sharp rise in energy and fuel prices, particularly diesel.
the introduction of a fuel and energy tax that will apply only to eu member states will create new unequal conditions on the global market and will consequently place even more burdens on our economies.
i have long held the view that nuclear fusion may be the chance for mankind to solve the fundamental problem of energy production in the future.
the final item is the report by silvia-adriana ţicău, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a competitive digital single market egovernment as a pioneering act (2011/2178(ini))
that's the end of the matter.
the biodiversity conservation objectives were not met by 2010 for a number of reasons, but mainly because biodiversity was not a priority in all policy areas and in all economic sectors.
i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution, which understands that the solution is not just to come up with a new strategy for biodiversity protection, but above all to integrate biodiversity into the debate on the policies currently under discussion, which will have a decisive impact on biodiversity.
the cap is also a key tool for conserving biodiversity.
it is therefore necessary to ensure the consistency of the whole system and to clearly identify and abolish as soon as possible such subsidies which have a negative impact on the environment.
the soil directive should also be discussed as a matter of urgency, as soil pollution needs to be reduced and more attention needs to be paid to the protection of soil biodiversity.
instead of regulating prices, we should try to introduce more market mechanisms into the telecommunications environment.
unfortunately, we are not creating a new market environment, but a new quasi-proposal with distorted regulation that will suit only a few multinational oligopolistic players.
the problem is that the setting of price ceilings as an administrative intervention in the market environment has its negative effects elsewhere in the telecommunications market.
in fact, despite all the fairy tales about the market environment, operators in my country have not been interested in providing their networks to virtual operators and, due to their market dominance, have not provided them.
it is worth noting that in this case the actual market, the market in favour of the customer and the competitive environment in favour of the customer must be created by regulation.
as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, let me stress the importance of the european court of auditors' report no 7/2011 entitled 'is agri-environmental support well set and managed?'
since 2000, agri-environmental payments have been part of the eu's rural development policy, with the commission sharing the management with the member states.
the purpose of the payments is to encourage farmers to use methods compatible with the protection and improvement of the environment.
according to the court, agri-environmental policy was not set up to provide specific environmental benefits.
the objectives of agri-environmental payments are not specific enough to assess their achievement, the environmental problems mentioned do not constitute a clear justification for granting agri-environmental payments, and the implementation of the policy cannot be easily monitored.
in this context, it is necessary to target agri-environment schemes to more specific priorities for the next programming period.
agri-environmental payments can achieve the desired effects in the areas of biodiversity, the conservation and development of agricultural and forestry systems with natural value, water protection and the fight against climate change.
first, china is often criticized in the european parliament for its human rights record, for what we call social and environmental dumping, for its violations of rights, especially intellectual property rights, and of course, where it deserves to be criticized, we criticize it.
let us therefore take this opportunity to address our concerns to china about the artificial barriers to trade and the non-transparent environment.
the report calls for additional taxation at european level, for the introduction of double taxation, and even for environmental and natural resources taxes.
i would ask everyone to agree to omit the mention of stopping the incineration of waste, because that would be rather counterproductive in this situation.
the increasing global demand is increasing pressure on the environment and further stimulating competition for resources.
key natural resources such as raw materials, metals, energy, biodiversity and water are used to fuel economic growth as if they were inexhaustible.
this is not sustainable in the long term and the eu is likely to face significant challenges in ensuring access to and continuity of supply of key resources.
biodiversity or energy efficiency targets are not being met.
reducing dependence on imported resources and using domestic resources efficiently must therefore be a clear policy priority, not only with regard to the environment, but also with regard to competitiveness and the creation of growth and jobs.
the current economic, financial and environmental situation only confirms that europe urgently needs new sources of economic growth.
i would therefore like to appeal again to the member states of the european union not to reject binding energy efficiency targets.
i also support extending the scope of the ecodesign directive to products which are not linked to energy consumption, to measures to reduce food waste or to the abolition of all subsidies which have a negative impact on the environment.
mr president, the economic crisis, the rising unemployment and the uncertainty of the people: in this environment, prejudice and guilt are very much alive.
the main challenges in my view are to strengthen cooperation with the public and private sectors, to improve the use of secondary raw materials in europe and to create the right incentives to prevent excess waste and contribute to its reuse, and to put resource efficiency and sustainability at the top of the innovation agenda at both european and national level.
this is possible through more sustainable consumption, waste minimisation, improved collection and sorting of waste.
energy security is a key strategic area for europe in the 21st century.
the long-term answer is to create a genuine internal energy market.
at present, fluctuations in the production of energy from renewable sources, especially from wind power plants on the eastern borders of germany, cause significant problems for the transmission system in the czech republic and thus threaten the stability of supply in the czech republic and for customers in austria.
this state of permanent threat of blackout also does not create favourable conditions for negotiations on deepening the single energy market.
i personally support expanding the range of suppliers and, at the same time, the sources of energy.
but we also need to deal with third countries in the union's immediate neighbourhood to prevent the construction of low-quality power plants that undermine the stability of our own energy system through power fluctuations.
unfortunately, the need for volunteering also arises in the case of natural and environmental disasters that affect europe and often have consequences in several member states at the same time.
europe is the main consumer of energy in global energy markets.
ensuring reliable and cost-competitive access to global energy supplies is key to supporting european competitiveness and security, given the existing policy objectives of the european union set out in the 20-20-20 package and the long-term commitment to decarbonise our economy by 2050. only a coherent and coordinated approach by the member states, the commission and the council will effectively support the european union's energy objectives in its external relations and result in an improved bargaining position vis-à-vis third countries.
i very much welcome the new mff's focus on growth, development and environmental sustainability.
i agree with the requirements to strengthen the controls and align them with the frequency of the controls under the industrial emissions directive, where the time between two on-site inspections must not be longer than one year for the highest risk installations and longer than three years for the lowest risk installations.
the inclusion of offshore extraction in the seveso iii directive would not only help to prevent major accidents that threaten biodiversity in rivers, seas and oceans, but would also make clear that the principle of the polluter bears responsibility in the event of an accident, and that the polluter is also obliged to bear the costs of the necessary preventive and corrective measures, applies here as well.
- i voted in favour because i believe that it is important for the single market to work to provide companies with the conditions to adapt to the current development of crossborder trade and the changing economic environment.
don't you think it's time to use the pressure of politicians at home in france to make these companies do a little bit for the environment and poverty in that country?
tensions between governments and the nomadic tuaregs, along with extreme poverty and lack of employment opportunities, create a favourable environment for the unhindered activities of the terrorist organisation al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb.
i fully support the way it has been put forward, and you know that i am one of those who often criticise the excessive standards in the european union as such, but water is a real environmental issue which we must take on a pan-european basis.
a good standard of living for animals is a natural part of sustainable development and is essential for the maintenance of animal health, human health and the productivity and competitiveness of livestock farming.
no longer can language barriers or ignorance of the environment prevent drivers from calling for help.
i regret that instead of effective instruments, such as in particular the capacity building of customs authorities, energy has been invested in negotiating an acta agreement which, in the absence of china and other states, would not be effective in practice.
i am personally convinced that there are several agencies which can be merged on the basis of their similar activities, especially at a time when we cannot afford to waste any more european union budgetary resources.
the second reason for rejecting acta is the exploitability for development and the covert preparation of the environment for the criminalisation of users, especially the internet.
i'm generally skeptical of such initiatives because they increase the debt burden of governments and other investors who build transportation, energy and other public infrastructure.
i would also like to comment on the amendment to the original text which requires that new transport infrastructure be built taking account of climate change.
transport infrastructure and climate change problems are completely unrelated in my view, and such an additional, ill-defined condition should not be included in the text at all.
it is logical that in these circumstances we should be looking for additional sources of funding for the trans-european transport and energy networks.
the pilot phase of the project provided for eur 200 million to be allocated to the trans-european transport networks in 2012-13 and eur 10 million to the energy networks and up to eur 20 million to the competitiveness and innovation framework programme and ict and broadband projects.
i supported the proposal by rapporteur göran färm on the general rules for granting community financial assistance in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks.
the accessibility and openness of standards, including the possibility to participate in the standard-setting process, is then a determining factor for the competitiveness of enterprises and their success in the market environment.
the agenda includes a debate on the report by satu hassi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the 'proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 1999/32/ec as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels (com ((2011) 0439 - c7-0199/2011 - http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?lang=en&reference=2011/0190co (((d)) ' (a7-0038/2012).
the agenda includes a debate on the report by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on energy efficiency and repealing directives 2004/8/ec and 2006/32/ec (com (2011) 0370 - c7-0168/2011 - 2011/0172) (a7-0265/2012).
secondly, i would like to say that there is a persistent problem here, that the project is too much about converging energy efficiency and savings.
savings are not the same as energy efficiency, and of course what mr pieper said is true.
people are poor, energy poverty is affecting more and more people, they have had enough.
mr president, commissioner, the proposed directive contains measures covering a whole range of cost-effective initiatives to increase energy efficiency.
efforts to increase energy efficiency in europe can lead to positive impacts on the european economy, but also on the environment, provided that sensible energy saving actions and measures are taken that do not interfere with the basic market principles from which western europe has benefited for so long.
the energy efficiency directive should provide such sensible steps.
i particularly support the view that member states should have some flexibility in choosing the instruments with which to contribute to increasing energy efficiency, as the conditions in each member state often vary.
this proposal should not lead to a reduction in primary energy consumption in the eu at any cost and should therefore take into account other eu objectives such as competitiveness.
it is important to create a sufficiently strong environment to avoid another crisis in the future, but it is also necessary to respect the different policies of the member states.
this will of the people, this energy of the russian people, has to be based on the observation of human rights, civil rights and the rule of law.
therefore, i think that it is in russia’s interest and in our interest to develop a dialogue not only on strategic partnership, economic cooperation and energy, but also on human and civil rights.
also, in view of the vulnerability of the child's psyche, the further victimization of victims, which could be negatively affected in public judicial proceedings, which could ultimately represent a significant barrier to building social relationships with their environment, i welcome this report.
social enterprises are almost exclusively small and medium-sized enterprises and their mission reflects a strong emphasis on sustainable development, i.e.
for these reasons, the correct alignment of the mff 2014-2020 appears to be a necessary condition for strengthening european economic governance and for supporting the objectives set out in the said strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
regional competitiveness and employment in relation to local environmental conditions should also be taken into account in the implementation of this strategy.
− in the context of the adoption of the report on the multiannual financial framework, i welcome the substantial increase in funding for the union programmes on competitiveness, smes, entrepreneurship and sustainable infrastructure, which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy.
i am of the opinion that the connecting europe facility to improve transport, energy and digital networks in europe should be financed by a separate amount and should not be transferred from the cohesion fund.
given the importance of eu cohesion policy as a strategic instrument for investment, sustainable growth and competitiveness, i consider it crucial that funding for cohesion policy is maintained at at least the same level as in the 2007-2013 period and that it remains available, in particular to the less developed regions of the eu.
it would be a mistake to simplify the relationship between these two powers to an exchange ‘of energy for manufactured goods’.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by heinz k. becker, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social business initiative – creating a favourable climate for social enterprises, key stakeholders in the social economy and innovation 2012/2004(ini)) (a7-0305/2012).
technological advances in drilling and technological advances in hydraulic fracturing have made it possible for the united states to be an exporting country today, and among other things, to have decreased the co2 emissions produced in the united states.
as shadow rapporteur for the epp, i have tried to ensure that an approach that guarantees a high degree of environmental protection, using the best technologies, is successful, in order to obtain basic data on the potential uses of shale gas.
it turns out that when mr. obama promised the stability of energy supply for 100 years, he was wrong.
i confess that the draft report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil extraction is embarrassing to me.
the combustion produces the same co2 as conventional natural gas or carbon-based fuels.
the environmental risks of shale gas extraction are not addressed.
mining has cross-border environmental and safety impacts, such as the threat to groundwater or the seismic activity it induces.
shale gas does not address europe's energy security or the eu's energy import independence.
the shale gas reserves are only able to compensate for the decline in conventional gas production, at the cost of environmental risks and higher greenhouse gas emissions.
iter, gmes and galileo, in my view, can contribute to solving europe's energy problems and have the potential to create much-needed jobs.
i would point out that the environmental interaction is at the forefront of this extraction method and that it is not possible to focus only on the economic framework associated with shale gas extraction.
mining or exploration, where thousands of litres of chemicals are dumped into the ground, carries a significant risk of irreversible environmental damage, contamination of even distant water sources and a direct threat to human health.
the use of hectolitres of chemicals will lead to irreversible damage and contamination of water resources and to serious environmental and human health impairments.
the problem is excessive public support for the purchase of electricity from these renewable sources.
moreover, it is worth emphasizing that this is primarily a trade agreement and all the items such as environmental protection, social rights and so on are adequately addressed in it.
the result may be a shift in the orientation of russian foreign and energy policy priorities towards the south and east.
but if we have any eu institutions, they must operate in an environment of legal certainty.
in the current climate, similar problems need to be addressed at the transnational level.
in it, the european parliament calls on the commission to draw up the promised action plan as soon as possible and to include key elements, including, for example, investments in research and development of new technologies, strengthening energy efficiency and resource use policies or the potential use of financial instruments at eu level (european social fund and european globalisation adjustment fund).